
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 371 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
##### ยง 371.4 Veterinary Services.
###### Deputy Administrator of VS.

(b)The Deputy Administrator of VS is responsible for:

(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of policies, programs, procedures, and activities of APHIS.

(2) Providing direction and coordination for the activities of the Center for Veterinary Biologics.

(3) Providing direction and coordination for VS programs and activities.

The authorities for VS programs include:

(i) Section 18 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, as it pertains to the issuance of certificates of condition of live animals intended and offered for export (21 U.S.C. 618).

(ii) 28 Hour Law, as amended (49 U.S.C. 80502);

(iii) Act of August 26, 1983, as amended (46 U.S.C. 3901 through 3902);

(iv) Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States;

(v) Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151 through 159);

(vi) Sections 203 and 205 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended, with respect to voluntary inspection and certification of animal products; inspection, testing, treatment, and certification of animals; and a program to investigate and develop solutions to the problems resulting from the use of sulfonamides in swine (7 U.S.C. 1622 and 1624);

(vii) Section 101(d) of the Organic Act of September 21, 1944 (7 U.S.C. 430);

(viii) The Swine Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 3801 through 3813);

(ix) Conducting diagnostic and related activities necessary to prevent, detect, control, or eradicate foot-and-mouth disease and other animal diseases (21 U.S.C. 113a);

(x) Authority to prescribe and collect fees under the Act of August 31, 1951, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9701), and sections 2508 and 2509 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, as amended (21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a); and

(xi) Transportation of horses to slaughter under sections 901-905 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note).

(xii) Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8301-8317).

(xiii) Section 10504 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8318).

(xiv) The responsibilities of the United States related to activities of the Office International des Epizooties.

(xv) Title II, Subtitles B and C, of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8401 note, 8401, 8411).

(4) Directing and coordinating animal health information systems and maintaining a Federal-State program operation capable of responding to exotic livestock and poultry disease outbreaks.

(5) Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to State and local governments, farmer's associations and similar organizations, and individuals with regard to VS programs and activities. Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to foreign governments with regard to pests and diseases of livestock and poultry.

(6) Providing laboratory support, diagnostic services, methods development, and research activities in support of VS programs.
