
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 371 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
##### ยง 371.8 International Services.
###### Deputy Administrator of IS.

(b)The Deputy Administrator of IS is responsible for:

(1) Participating with the Administrator of APHIS and other officials in the planning and formulation of international policies, programs, and activities of APHIS.

(2) Maintaining and administering the foreign service personnel system for employees of APHIS in accordance with section 202(a)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3922), E.O. 12363, dated May 21, 1982, and the provisions of ยง 2.51(a)(1) of this title.

(3) Developing and maintaining systems for monitoring and reporting the presence and movement of plant and animal diseases and pests in foreign countries.

(4) Developing and maintaining cooperative relationships and programs with other Federal agencies, foreign governments, industry, and international organizations, such as the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, with regard to APHIS activities in foreign countries.

(5) Developing and maintaining systems for observing the effects of plant and animal diseases in foreign countries and evaluating their effect on the agriculture industry.

(6) Developing and directing programs to enhance the trade in U.S. plants, animals, and their products in compliance with established international sanitary and phytosanitary standards.

(7) Providing recommendations for policy and program changes, and promulgating requirements, procedures, and guidelines for the conduct of field activities relating to IS programs.
