
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 371 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
##### § 371.5 Marketing and Regulatory Programs Business Services.
###### Deputy Administrator of MRPBS.

(b)The Deputy Administrator of MRPBS is responsible for:

(1) Assisting the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, and the Administrators of APHIS, the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS), and the Grain Inspection and Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA), and other APHIS, AMS, and GIPSA officials in the planning and formulation of MRP policies, programs, and activities. Providing human resource, certain financial, and management services for AMS, APHIS, and GIPSA.

(2) Planning, formulating and coordinating policies, and directing management support functions for APHIS and designated functions for other MRP agencies, including finance, personnel, and management services.

(3) Conducting administrative reviews and inspections in APHIS to assess the implementation of policies and procedures and to assess the accomplishments of program objectives.

(4) Evaluating and issuing administrative directives.

(5) Serving as APHIS' liaison official with the General Accounting Office and the Office of the Inspector General.

(6) Preparing cooperative agreements, memoranda of understanding, agreements between APHIS and other agencies, and agreements that require the signature of more than one Deputy Administrator or Director.

(7) Directing and coordinating investigations related to APHIS program laws and regulations and coordinating enforcement of program laws and regulations with the Office of the General Counsel.

(8) Supporting and enforcing APHIS program activities, which include:

(i) Title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, §§ 371.3(b)(2)(i) through (xiv);

(ii) Title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, §§ 371.4(b)(3)(i) through (xx);

(iii) The Animal Welfare Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131 through 2159); and

(iv) The Virus-Serum Toxin Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 159).

(9) Formulating and recommending employee development and training policies.

(10) Developing, delivering, and administering organizational development, training, recruitment, and employee development programs for MRP agencies.

(11) Providing computer support and related services for APHIS.
