
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter III - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 371 - ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
##### ยง 371.13 Reservation of authority.

The following are reserved to the Administrator, or to the individual designated to act for the Administrator:

(a) The initiation, change, or discontinuance of major program activities.

(b) The issuance of regulations pursuant to law.

(c) The transfer of functions between Deputy Administrators and Directors.

(d) The transfer of funds between Deputy Administrators and Directors.

(e) The transfer of funds between work projects within each Deputy Administrator's or Director's area, except those not exceeding 10 percent of base funds or $50,000 in either work project, whichever is less.

(f) The approval of any change in the formal organization, including a section, its equivalent, or higher level.

(g) The making of recommendations to the Department concerning establishment, consolidation, change in location, or abolishment of any regional, State, area, and other field headquarters, and any region or other program area that involves two or more States, or that crosses State lines.

(h) Authority to establish, consolidate, change a location, abolish any field office, or change program area boundaries not included in paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) Approval of all appointments, promotions, and reassignments at the GS-14 level and above.

(j) Authorization for foreign travel and for attendance at foreign and international meetings, including those held in the United States.

(k) Approval of all appointments, promotions, and reassignments of employees to foreign countries.

(l) Approval of program budgets.

(m) Authority to determine the circumstances under which commuted traveltime allowances may be paid to employees performing inspections and necessary auxiliary services after normal working hours or on holidays, when these services come within the scope of the Act of August 28, 1950 (7 U.S.C. 2260).
