
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - Actual Production History
###### ยง 400.53 Yield certification and acceptability.

(a) Production reports must be provided to the crop insurance agent no later than the production reporting date for the crop insured.

(1) Production reports must provide an accurate account of planted acreage for annual crops or insurable acres for perennial crops, as well as harvested and appraised production by unit.

(2) The insured must certify the accuracy of the information.

(3) Production reported for more than one crop year must be continuous. A year in which no acreage was planted to the crop on a unit or no acreage was planted to a practice, type, or variety requiring an APH yield will not be considered a break in continuity. Assigned yields, at the discretion of the FCIC, may be used to maintain continuity of yield data of file. Production on uninsured (for those years a crop insurance policy under the Federal Crop Insurance Act is in effect) or uninsurable acreage (for other years of the period) will not be used to determine APH yield unless production from such acreage is commingled with production from insured or insurable acreage.

(b) Production reports and supporting records are subject to audit or review to verify the accuracy of the information certified. Production and supporting records may be reviewed and verified if a claim for indemnity is submitted on the insured crop. The reported yield is subject to revision, if needed, so that the claim conforms to the records submitted at that time.

(1) Inaccurate production reports or failure to retain acceptable records shall result in the verifier combining optional farm units and recomputing the approved APH yield. These actions shall be taken at any time after reporting or record discrepancies are identified and may result in reduction of the approved APH yield for any calendar year.

(2) Records must be provided by the insured at the time of an audit, review, or as otherwise requested, to verify that the acreage and production certified are accurate. Records of any other person having shares in the insured crop, which are used by the insured to establish the approved APH yield, must also be provided upon request.

(3) In the event acreage or production data certified by two or more persons sharing in the crop on the same acreage is different, the verifier shall, at the verifier's discretion, determine which acreage and production data, if any, will be used to determine the approved APH yield. If the correct acreage and production cannot be determined, the data submitted will be considered unacceptable by the verifier for APH purposes.

(4) Failure of the producer to report acreage and production completely and accurately may result in voidance of the crop insurance contract, as well as criminal or civil false claims penalties pursuant to applicable Federal criminal or civil statutes.
