
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Appeal Procedure
###### ยง 400.91 Applicability.

(a) This subpart applies to:

(1) Adverse decisions made by personnel of the Agency with respect to:

(i) Contracts of insurance insured by FCIC; and

(ii) Contracts of insurance of private insurance companies and reinsured by FCIC under the provisions of the Act.

(2) Determinations of good farming practices made by personnel of the Agency or the reinsured company (see ยง 400.98).

(b) This subpart is not applicable to any decision:

(1) Made by the Agency with respect to any matter arising under the terms of the Standard Reinsurance Agreement with the reinsured company; or

(2) Made by any private insurance company with respect to any contract of insurance issued to any producer by the private insurance company and reinsured by FCIC under the provisions of the Act, except for determinations of good farming practices specified in ยง 400.91(a)(2).

(c) With respect to matters identified in ยง 400.91(a)(1), participants may request an administrative review, mediation, or both, or appeal of adverse decisions by the Agency made with respect to:

(1) Denial of participation in the crop insurance program;

(2) Compliance with terms and conditions of insurance;

(3) Issuance of payments or other program benefits to a participant in the crop insurance program; and

(4) Issuance of payments or other benefits to an individual or entity who is not a participant in the crop insurance program.

(d) Only a participant may seek an administrative review and mediation under this subpart, as applicable.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision, this subpart does not apply to any decision made by the Agency that is generally applicable to all similarly situated program participants. Such decisions are also not appealable to NAD. If the Agency determines that a decision is not appealable because it is a matter of general applicability, the participant must obtain a review by the Director of NAD in accordance with 7 CFR 11.6(a) of the Agency's determination that the decision is not appealable before the participant may file suit against the Agency.
