
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 9 - PANDEMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - Pandemic Assistance Revenue Program
##### ยง 9.309 Miscellaneous provisions.

(a) If a PARP payment resulted from erroneous information provided by a producer, or any person acting on their behalf, the payment will be recalculated and the producer must refund any excess payment with interest calculated from the date of the disbursement of the payment.

(b) If FSA determines that the producer intentionally misrepresented information provided on their application, the application will be disapproved and the producer must refund the full payment to FSA with interest from the date of disbursement.

(c) Any required refunds must be resolved in accordance with part 3 of this title.

(d) The regulations in 7 CFR part 718, subpart D, and 7 CFR parts 11 and 780 apply to determinations made under this subpart.

(e) A producer, whether a person or legal entity that either fails to timely provide all required documentation or fails to satisfy any eligibility requirement for PARP, is not eligible to receive PARP payments, directly or indirectly. A PARP payment to an eligible legal entity applicant whose member(s) either fails to timely provide all required documentation or fails to satisfy any eligibility requirement for PARP will be reduced proportionate to that member's ownership interest in the legal entity.

(f) Any payment under this subpart will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the commodity or proceeds from the sale of the commodity. The regulations governing offsets in part 3 of this title do not apply to payments made under this subpart.

(g) For the purposes of the effect of a lien on eligibility for Federal programs (28 U.S.C. 3201(e)), USDA waives the restriction on receipt of funds under PARP but only as to beneficiaries who, as a condition of the waiver, agree to apply the PARP payments to reduce the amount of the judgment lien.

(h) The provisions in 7 CFR 718.3, 718.4, 718.5, 718.6, 718.8, 718.9, 718.10, and 718.11 are applicable to multiple programs and apply to PARP.

(i) In addition to any other Federal laws that apply to PARP, the following laws apply: 15 U.S.C. 714; 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 371, and 1001.
