
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart R - Administrative Remedies for Non-Compliance
###### ยง 400.454 Disqualification and civil fines.
####### et seq.

(G) The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921,) or any successor statute; and

(H) Any federal law that provides assistance to the producer of an agricultural commodity affected by a crop loss or decline in the prices of agricultural commodities.

(ii) Participant or other person, other than a producer, such participant or person will be precluded from participating in any way in the Federal crop insurance program and receiving any monetary or non-monetary benefit under the Act.

(2) With respect to the term of disqualification:

(i) The minimum term will be not less than one year from the effective date determined in ยง 400.454(a)(2);

(ii) The maximum term will be not more than five years from the effective date determined in ยง 400.454(a)(2); and

(iii) Disqualification is to be imposed only in one-year increments, up to the maximum five years.

(3) Once a disqualification becomes final, the name, address, and other identifying information of the participant or other person shall be entered into the Ineligible Tracking System (ITS) maintained by FCIC in accordance with 7 CFR part 400, subpart U, and this information along with a list of the programs that the person is disqualified from shall be promptly reported to the General Services Administration for listing in the System for Award Management (SAM) in accordance with 2 CFR part 417.

(i) It is a participant's responsibility to periodically review the ITS and EPLS to determine those participants and other persons who have been disqualified.

(ii) No participant may conduct business with a disqualified participant or other person if such business directly relates to the Federal crop insurance program, or if, through the business relationship, the disqualified participant or other person will derive any monetary or non-monetary benefit from a program administered under the Act.

(iii) If a participant or other person does business with a disqualified participant or other person, such participant may be subject to disqualification under this section.

(iv) Continuing to make payments to a disqualified person to fulfill pre-existing contractual or statutory obligations after the business relationship is terminated will not be considered as doing business with a disqualified person unless such payment is used as a means to circumvent the disqualification process.

(f) With respect to civil fines:

(1) A civil fine may be imposed for each violation.

(2) The amount of such civil fine shall not exceed the maximum amount specified in 7 CFR 3.91 (b)(7).

(3) Civil fines are debts owed to FCIC.

(i) A civil fine that is either imposed under with this subpart, or agreed to through an executed settlement agreement with FCIC, must be paid by the specified due date. If the due date is not specified in the order issued by the Administrative Law Judge or Judicial Officer, as applicable, or the settlement agreement, it shall be 30 days after the date the order was issued or the settlement agreement signed by FCIC.

(ii) Any civil fine imposed under this section is in addition to any debt that may be owed to FCIC or to any approved insurance provider, such an overpaid indemnity, underpaid premium, or other amounts owed.

(iii) FCIC, in its sole discretion, may reduce or otherwise settle any civil fine imposed under this section whenever it considers it appropriate or in the best interest of the USDA.

(4) The ineligibility procedures established in 7 CFR part 400, subpart U are not applicable to ineligibility determinations made under this section for nonpayment of civil fines.

(5) If a civil fine has been imposed and the person has not made timely payment for the total amount due, the person is ineligible to participate in the Federal crop insurance program until the amount due is paid in full.

(g) With respect to any person that has been disqualified or is otherwise ineligible due to non-payment of civil fines in accordance with ยง 400.454(f):

(1) With respect to producers:

(i) All existing insurance policies will automatically terminate as of the next termination date that occurs during the period of disqualification and while the civil fine remains unpaid;

(ii) No new policies can be purchased, and no current policies can be renewed, between the date that the producer is disqualified and the date that the disqualification ends; and

(iii) New application for insurance cannot be made for any agricultural commodity until the next sales closing date after the period of disqualification has ended and the civil fine is paid in full.

(2) With respect to all other persons:

(i) Such person may not be involved in any function related to the Federal crop insurance program during the disqualification or ineligibility period (including the sale, service, adjustment, data transmission or storage, reinsurance, etc. of any crop insurance policy) or receive any monetary or non-monetary benefit from a program administered under the Act.

(ii) If the person is an agent or insurance agency, the producers may cancel their policies sold and serviced by the disqualified agent and rewrite the policy with another agent. If the producer does not cancel and rewrite the policy with another agent, the approved insurance provider must assign the policies to a different agent or agency to service during the period of disqualification or ineligibility. Policies that have been assigned to another agent or agency by the insurance provider will revert back to the disqualified agent or agency after the period of disqualification has ended provided all civil fines are paid in full and the producer does not cancel and rewrite the policy with a different agent or agency;

(iii) If the person is an approved insurance provider, the approved insurance provider shall not sell, or authorize to be sold, any new policies or may not renew, or authorize the renewal of, existing policies, as determined by FCIC, during the period of disqualification or ineligibility. Nothing in this provision affects the approved insurance provider's responsibilities with respect to the service of existing policies.

(h) Imposition of disqualification or a civil fine under this section is in addition to any other administrative or legal remedies available under this section or other applicable law including, but not limited to, debarment and suspension.
