
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart T - Federal Crop Insurance Reform, Insurance Implementation
###### ยง 400.654 Application and acreage report.

(a) To participate in catastrophic risk protection, or additional coverage plans of insurance, a producer must submit an application for insurance on or before the applicable sales closing date.

(b) In order to remain eligible for certain farm programs, as specified in ยง 400.655, a producer must obtain at least catastrophic risk protection on all crops of economic significance, if catastrophic risk protection is available in the county, unless the producer executes a waiver of any eligibility for emergency crop loss assistance in connection with the crop.

(c) Notwithstanding the requirements of ยง 400.654(a) that applications for insurance be submitted on or before the applicable sales closing date, FCIC may permit a producer to insure crops other than those specified on the application under the following conditions:

(1) The producer must be unable to plant the intended crop or it is not practical to replant a failed crop before the final planting date. FCIC will take into consideration marketing windows when determining whether it was not practical to replant.

(2) Conditions must exist to warrant allowing a producer to insure crops other than the intended crop.

(3) The producer must submit an application for the substitute crop on or before the acreage reporting date for the substitute crop and pay any applicable administrative fee. A producer may not substitute a crop that the producer planted in the preceding crop year unless that crop was listed on a timely filed application for the current crop year.

(4) If the producer plants a substitute crop that is a crop of economic significance, the producer must obtain CAT coverage, if available, to comply with the linkage requirements specified in ยง 400.655. The producer may not substitute a crop under this provision if the producer has signed or intends to sign a waiver for emergency crop loss assistance for the crop year.

(5) The substitute crop must be planted on or before the final planting date or within the late planting period, if applicable, for the substitute crop.

(6) Under no circumstances may a producer submit an application for additional coverage after the sales closing date for the substitute crop.

(d) For all coverages, including catastrophic risk protection, and additional coverages, the producer must file a signed acreage report on or before the acreage reporting date. Any person may sign any document relative to crop insurance coverage on behalf of any other person covered by such a policy, provided that the person has a properly executed power of attorney or other legally sufficient document authorizing such person to sign.

(e) Under catastrophic risk protection, unless the other person with an insurable interest in the crop objects in writing prior to the acreage reporting date and provides a signed acreage report on their own behalf an operator may sign the acreage report for all other persons with an insurable interest in the crop without a power of attorney. All persons with an insurable interest in the crop, and for whom the operator purports to sign and represent, are bound by the information contained in that acreage report.
