
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart T - Federal Crop Insurance Reform, Insurance Implementation
###### ยง 400.652 Insurance availability.

(a) If sufficient actuarial data are available, FCIC will offer catastrophic risk protection, and additional coverage plans of insurance to indemnify persons for FCIC insured or reinsured crop loss due to loss of yield or prevented planting, if the crop loss or prevented planting is due to an insured cause of loss specified in the applicable crop insurance policy.

(b) Catastrophic risk protection coverage may be offered through approved insurance providers and through local offices of the Farm Service Agency specified by the Secretary. Additional coverage will only be offered through approved insurance providers unless there is not a sufficient number of approved insurance providers that offer such insurance within a service area.

(c) A person must obtain at least catastrophic risk protection for the crop on all insurable acreage in the county in which the person has a share on or before the sales closing date designated by FCIC for the crop in the county in order to satisfy the linkage requirements unless the producer executes a waiver of any eligibility for emergency crop loss assistance in connection with the crop.

(d) For additional coverage, in areas where insurance is not available for a particular agricultural commodity that is insurable elsewhere, FCIC may enter into a written agreement with a person to insure the commodity, provided that the person has actuarially sound data relating to the production of the commodity that is acceptable to FCIC and that such written agreement is specifically allowed by the crop insurance regulations applicable to the crop.

(e) Failure to comply with all provisions of the policy constitutes a breach of contract and may result in ineligibility for certain other farm program benefits for that crop year and any benefit already received must be refunded. If a producer breaches the insurance contract, the execution of a waiver of eligibility for emergency crop loss assistance will not be effective for the crop year in which the breech occurred.
