
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart T - Federal Crop Insurance Reform, Insurance Implementation
###### ยง 400.653 Determining crops of economic significance.

To be eligible for certain other program benefits under ยง 400.655 the following conditions will apply with respect to crops of economic significance if the producer does not execute a waiver of any eligibility for emergency crop loss assistance in connection with the crop.

(a) If a producer planted a crop of economic significance in the preceding crop year, and does not intend to plant the same crop in the present crop year, the producer does not have to obtain insurance coverage or execute a waiver of any eligibility for emergency crop loss assistance in connection with the crop in the present crop year to comply with the linkage requirements. However, if the producer later decides to plant that crop, the producer will be unable to obtain insurance after the sales closing date and must execute a waiver of any eligibility for emergency crop loss assistance in connection with the crop to be eligible for benefits as specified in ยง 400.655. Failure to execute such a waiver will require the producer to refund any benefits already received under a program specified in ยง 400.655.

(b) The producer is initially responsible to determine the crops of economic significance in the county. The insurance provider may assist the producer in making these initial determinations. However, these determinations will not be binding on the insurance provider. To determine the percentage value of each crop:

(1) Multiply the acres planted to the crop times the producer's share, times the approved yield, and times the price;

(2) Add the values of all crops grown by the producer (in the county); and

(3) Divide the value of the specific crop by the result of paragraph (b)(2).

(c) The producer may use the type of price, such as the current local market price, futures price, established price, highest amount of insurance, etc., for the price when calculating the value of each crop, provided that the producer uses the same type of price for all crops in the county.

(d) The producer may be required to justify the calculation and provide adequate records to enable the insurance provider to verify whether a crop is of economic significance.
