
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Ineligibility for Programs Under the Federal Crop Insurance Act
###### ยง 400.686 Administration and maintenance.

(a) Ineligible producer data will be maintained in a system of records established and maintained by the Risk Management Agency in accordance with the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).

(1) The ITS contains identifying information of the ineligible person, including but not limited to, name, address, telephone number, SSN or EIN, reason for ineligibility, and time period of ineligibility.

(2) Information in the ITS may be used by an authorized person. The information may be furnished to other users as may be appropriate or required by law or regulation, including but not limited to, FCIC contracted agencies, other government agencies, credit reporting agencies, and collection agencies, and in response to judicial orders in the course of litigation. The individual information may be made available in the form of various reports and notices.

(3) Supporting documentation regarding the determination of ineligibility and reinstatement or regaining of eligibility will be maintained by FCIC, or its contractors, insurance providers, Federal agencies, and State agencies. This documentation will be maintained and retained consistent with the electronic information contained within the ITS.

(b) Information may be entered into the ITS by FCIC employees or contractors, or insurance providers.

(c) All persons applying for crop insurance policies or with an existing policy, issued or reinsured by FCIC, will be subject to validation of their eligibility status against the ITS. Applications, transfers, or benefits approved and accepted are considered approved or accepted subject to review of eligibility status in accordance with this subpart.

(d) Insurance providers, partners, cooperators, and contractors must check to ensure that the persons with whom they are doing business are eligible to participate in the programs authorized under the Act. Insurance providers, partners, cooperators, and contractors must check the ITS but the ITS may not include all persons ineligible to receive government benefits, such as persons debarred, disqualified or suspended from receiving government benefits by an agency other than FCIC. Insurance providers, partners, cooperators, and contractors must check other sources that contain ineligible persons, including but not limited to EPLS, or successor list, provide data on persons ineligible to participate in programs authorized under the Act.
