
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 400 - GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Submission of Policies, Provisions of Policies, Rates of Premium, and Non-Reinsured Supplemental Policies
###### ยง 400.713 Non-reinsured supplemental (NRS) policy.
####### DeputyAdministrator@rma.usda.gov.

(b) An electronic copy in Microsoft Office compatible format, of the new or revised NRS policy and related materials must be submitted at least 150 days prior to the first sales closing date applicable to the NRS policy. At a minimum, examples that demonstrate how liability and indemnities are calculated under differing scenarios must be included. Electronic copies of the NRS must be sent to the Deputy Administrator for Product Management (or successor) at

(c) RMA will review the NRS policy. If any of the conditions found in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section are found to occur, FCIC will notify the AIP that submitted the NRS policy that if they sell the NRS policy, it will result in denial of reinsurance, A&O subsidy, and risk subsidy on all underlying FCIC reinsured policies, unless the underlying FCIC policy was sold by another AIP. If the underlying FCIC reinsured policy is sold by another AIP, the AIP that sold the NRS may be required to pay FCIC an amount equal to the reinsurance, A&O subsidy, and risk subsidy on the underlying FCIC policy.

(1) If the NRS policy materially increases or shifts risk to the underlying policy or plan of insurance reinsured by FCIC.

(i) An NRS policy will be considered to materially increase or shift risk to the underlying policy or plan of insurance reinsured by FCIC if RMA determines it:

(A) Creates a moral hazard, such as a financial incentive for the policyholder to behave in a way that increases the number or size of losses;

(B) Results in the underlying FCIC policy either triggering a loss sooner, or paying a larger indemnity than would otherwise be allowed by the terms and conditions of the underlying reinsured policy; or

(C) Allows for combined indemnities between the underlying FCIC reinsured policy and the NRS that are in excess of the value a producer would reasonably expect to receive for the insured commodity if a normal crop was produced and sold at a reasonable market price.

(ii) The NRS must include language that clearly states no indemnity will be paid in excess of the initial value of the insured commodity.

(2) The NRS reduces or limits the rights of the insured with respect to the underlying policy or plan of insurance reinsured by FCIC. An NRS policy will be considered to reduce or limit the rights of the insured with respect to the underlying policy or plan of insurance if RMA determines it affects, alters, preempts, or undermines the terms or conditions of the underlying policy or procedures issued by FCIC.

(3) The NRS disrupts the marketplace. An NRS policy will be considered to disrupt the marketplace if RMA determines it encourages planting more acres of the insured commodity in excess of normal market demand, adversely affects the sales or administration of reinsured policies, undermines producers' confidence in the Federal crop insurance program, or harms public perception of the Federal crop insurance program.

(4) The NRS is an impermissible rebate. An NRS may be considered to be an impermissible rebate if RMA determines that the premium rates charged are insufficient to cover the expected losses and a reasonable reserve or it offers other benefits that are generally provided at a cost.

(5) The NRS policy is conditioned upon or provides incentive for the purchase of the underlying policy or plan of insurance reinsured by FCIC with a specific agent or approved insurance provider.

(d) RMA will respond not less than 75 days before the first sales closing date or provide notice why RMA is unable to respond within the time frame allotted.

(e) NRS policies reviewed by RMA will need to be submitted once every five years unless a change is made to the NRS or the underlying policy. Once any changes are made to either policy, or the five year period has concluded, the NRS must be resubmitted for review.
