
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 457 - COMMON CROP INSURANCE REGULATIONS
##### ยง 457.109 Sugar Beet Crop Insurance Provisions.

The Sugar Beet Crop Insurance Provisions for effective for the 2023 and succeeding crop years in states with a November 30 contract change date and for the 2024 and succeeding crop years in all other states, are as follows:

(a) Applicability:

(1) You must have an additional coverage policy to elect this option.

(2) You must elect this option in writing on or before the sales closing date for the first year it is in effect.

(3) This election is continuous, in accordance with section 2 of the Basic Provisions, unless canceled by the cancellation date. Your election of the Catastrophic Risk Protection Endorsement for your sugar beets in any crop year will be deemed to be cancellation of this option by you.

(4) All insurable acreage of sugar beets in the county will be included under this option unless any acreage is specifically excluded by the Special Provisions.

(b) Insurance Guarantees:

(1) The production guarantee (per acre) will be the final stage guarantee.

(2) The terms and conditions contained in sections 3(b) and 3(d) do not apply under this option.

(c) Premium Adjustment Factor: The premium adjustment factor in the actuarial documents for the stage removal option will apply to the premium computation method in section 7.

(d) Settlement of Claim:

(1) The "respective production guarantee" referenced in section 14(b) will be the final stage guarantee.

(2) The terms and conditions of section 14(c)(1)(iv) do not apply under this option.
