
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 11 - NATIONAL APPEALS DIVISION
#### Subpart A - National Appeals Division Rules of Procedures
##### ยง 11.6 Director review of agency determination of appealability and right of participants to Division hearing.
###### Director review of agency determination of appealability.

(a)(1) Not later than 30 days after the date on which a participant receives a determination from an agency that an agency decision is not appealable, the participant must submit a written request personally signed by the participant to the Director to review the determination in order to obtain such review by the Director.

(2) The Director shall determined whether the decision is adverse to the individual participant and thus appealable or is a matter of general applicability and thus not subject to appeal, and will issue a final determination notice that upholds or reverses the determination of the agency. This final determination is not appealable. If the Director reverses the determination of the agency, the Director will notify the participant and the agency of that decision and inform the participant of his or her right to proceed with an appeal.

(3) The Director may delegate his or her authority to conduct a review under this paragraph to any subordinate official of the Division other than a Hearing Officer. In any case in which such review is conducted by such a subordinate official, the subordinate official's determination shall be considered to be the determination of the Director and shall be final and not appealable.
