
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 460 - ADDITIONAL DISASTER PAYMENTS
##### Subpart A - Prevented Planting Supplemental Disaster Payments
###### ยง 460.3 Eligibility and qualifying causes of loss.

(a) To be eligible for a payment under this subpart, the participant must be a person that is eligible to receive Federal benefits and has purchased a crop insurance policy for the insured crop from an AIP.

(1) Participants will be eligible to receive a payment in this subpart only if they were prevented from planting an insured crop due to a qualifying cause of loss, as further specified in this subpart.

(2) A person is not eligible to receive benefits in this subpart if at any time that person is determined to be ineligible for crop insurance.

(b) Insured crops that are eligible for a payment under this subpart are those crops for which the final planting date for the 2019 crop year crop insurance policy is in the 2019 calendar year, as specified by the Administrator.

(1) For insured crops with more than one final planting date in the county, only those types or practices with a final planting date in the 2019 calendar year are eligible for payment under this subpart.

(2) Participants who are in violation of Highly Erodible Land or Wetlands Conservation (16 U.S.C. 3811-12, 3821) for Federal crop insurance are not eligible for payment under this subpart.

(c) A prevented planting payment will only be considered a qualifying prevented planting payment if the participant is prevented from planting the insured crop due to one of the following causes of loss:

(1) Excess precipitation;

(2) Flood;

(3) Cold wet weather;

(4) Storm surge;

(5) Tornado;

(6) Volcanic activity; and

(7) Tropical depression, hurricane, or cyclone.

(d) A prevented planting payment received for failure to plant due to any cause not included in paragraph (c) of this section is not considered a qualifying prevented planting payment for the purpose of this subpart.
