
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 460 - ADDITIONAL DISASTER PAYMENTS
##### Subpart B - Pandemic Cover Crop Program
###### ยง 460.11 Calculating PCCP amounts for first insured crops.

(a) For the 2022 crop year, for eligible insured acres covered under a crop insurance policy for a first insured crop, the amount of premium support under PCCP for each insured acre will be $5, calculated on a CLU basis, with a maximum equal to the amount of premium owed by the insured.

(b) For the 2022 crop year, in states administering a cover crop program providing premium subsidy under an active MOU with RMA, as authorized by Section 508(c)(8) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, insured acres qualifying for a state premium subsidy amount are eligible for a matching amount under PCCP, calculated on a CLU basis, which may be in addition to the amount in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) The matching amount under PCCP per insured acre will be equal to the state contribution per insured acre on a CLU basis.

(2) The matching amount under PCCP per insured acre will be limited by the amount of premium owed by the insured on a CLU basis. If limited, the state contribution amount and matching PCCP amount will be reduced proportionately on a CLU basis.

(c) Amounts under PCCP are limited to the full amount of premium owed by the insured for the eligible insured acres on a CLU basis. If the full amount under PCCP would result in a negative premium balance for the insured on a CLU basis, PCCP amounts will be limited to the full amount of premium owed on a CLU basis, with the amount calculated in paragraph (b) of this section being applied first and the amount calculated in paragraph (a) of this section being applied second.

(1) In cases where insureds are eligible for both paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and premium owed on a CLU basis is less than the amount in paragraph (b) of this section, the state contribution amount and matching PCCP amount in paragraph (b) of this section will be reduced proportionally on a CLU basis, and there will be no PCCP premium support amount applied in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) In cases where insureds are eligible for both paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and premium owed on a CLU basis is greater than the amount in paragraph (b) of this section but less than the sum of the amounts in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, there will be no reduction to the state contribution amount and matching PCCP amount in paragraph (b) of this section, and the PCCP premium support amount in paragraph (a) of this section will be reduced.

(d) If the eligible insured acres are adjusted or revised for any reason, such as an overreporting of insured acres, the amount under PCCP will be based on the eligible insured acres after any such amendment.
