
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IV - Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 460 - ADDITIONAL DISASTER PAYMENTS
##### Subpart B - Pandemic Cover Crop Program
###### ยง 460.13 Accounting for PCCP amounts.

(a) The amount under PCCP will not be paid directly to eligible producers. FCIC and AIPs will account for the amount when calculating total producer premium due. AIPs will adjust participant bills accordingly. All bills follow the same terms and conditions specified in the crop insurance policy, regardless of PCCP amounts.

(b) PCCP premium support will be provided via premium billing adjustments by the applicable RMA premium billing date for the insured crop.

(c) PCCP premium support is available both for eligible insured acres and for eligible WFRP acres associated with the same planted acreage of qualifying cover crops.

(d) The payment limitations in 7 CFR 760.1507 are not applicable to PCCP.

(e) RMA will obtain cover crop records from FSA and determine eligibility such that eligible producers do not need to take any additional specific action through their crop insurance agent to enroll in the PCCP.

(1) In the event that any PCCP amount is determined to be incorrect, the amount will be recalculated until the 2022 reinsurance year annual settlement date of October 6, 2023, unless otherwise specified by the RMA Administrator.

(2) After October 6, 2023, the amount will be final except in cases of misrepresentation, fraud, scheme, or device.
