
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter V - Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 500 - NATIONAL ARBORETUM
##### Subpart A - Conduct on U.S. National Arboreturm Property
###### ยง 500.11 Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.

(a) Drivers of all vehicles in or on USNA property shall drive only on established roads, shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times, and shall comply with the signals and directions of the Security Staff and all posted traffic signs.

(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants, and parking in designated no parking areas in or on USNA property is prohibited.

(c) Except in emergencies, parking in or on USNA property in other than designated areas is not allowed without a permit. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or contrary to the direction of posted signs, is prohibited.

(d) USNA approval is required for all vehicles needed for access setup and breakdown activities relating to special events, ceremonies, or related activities. Off-road routes will be determined by the USNA.

(e) In addition to the penalties provided in ยง 500.15, vehicles parked in violation of this section are subject to being towed and the cost of such towing being assessed to the owner of such vehicle.

(f) This section may be supplemented from time to time, by the issuance and posting of specific traffic directives as may be required, and when so issued and posted such directives shall have the same force and effect as if incorporated in this subpart.
