
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter V - Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 500 - NATIONAL ARBORETUM
##### Subpart B - Fee Schedule for Certain Uses of National Arboretum Facilities and Grounds
###### ยง 500.22 Fees and conditions for use of facilities and grounds.
####### Fee requirement.

(a)(1) The USNA will charge a fee for temporary use by individuals or groups of USNA facilities and grounds. Fees for specific sites are listed in ยง 500.24.

(2) Non-profit scientific or educational organizations whose purposes and interests are complementary to the mission of the USNA and which substantially support the mission and purpose of the USNA (e.g., Friends of the National Arboretum, National Bonsai Foundation, National Capital Area Federation of Garden Clubs, Herb Society of America) may be exempted from the fee for use of USNA facility or grounds requirement of this subpart by the Director, but still must reimburse the USNA for its costs, including setup, clean-up, security, and other costs as applicable.

(3) A Half Day usage is defined as 4 hours or less; a Whole Day usage is defined as more than 4 hours in a day. In all cases, usage includes all time during which a venue is committed, including time used to set up before and clean up after an event. For after-hours usage of sites or facilities, an additional $40/hour will be added for supervision for each required staff member or security officer, with higher amounts required for sites or facilities that are more sensitive.
