
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter V - Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 500 - NATIONAL ARBORETUM
##### Subpart B - Fee Schedule for Certain Uses of National Arboretum Facilities and Grounds
###### ยง 500.22 Fees and conditions for use of facilities and grounds.
####### Terms and conditions of use.

(c)(1) The USNA provides space, water, and electrical hookup when available, and restrooms where available. Users must provide all tents, tables, chairs, trash receptacles, or other property required for the scheduled event. Users must remove all trash from the property at the conclusion of the event. Users must remove all tents, tables and chairs, and other property no later than 5:00 p.m. of the day following the event. The USNA will charge a facility use and break down fee of $500.00 per day for each day following the deadline to remove temporary facilities and equipment. The USNA will not store temporary facilities or equipment for users.

(2) Users must abide by USNA vehicle regulations in ยง 500.11 including the requirement to obtain USNA approval whenever off road access is required for setup.

(3) The USNA will not assume any responsibility for last minute changes due to failure of current mechanical systems, severe storms and other weather events, emergencies relating to security and safety.

(4) Some events that involve bringing animals and certain plants onto the USNA property may not be compatible with the plant research, display, and education mission of the USNA. Such events will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and exceptions may be made by the Director of the USNA.

(5) Music and bands will be permitted but the decibel level of music should not be loud enough to be heard outside the boundaries of the USNA.

(6) (i) A refundable deposit as specified in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section for use of the facility or grounds, excluding the classroom, will be collected in advance. In the event of building, property, or grounds damage or excessive cleaning requirements, the deposit will be used for repair and remediation and the balance will be refunded within 30 days of the event date. In the event that cleaning requirements or damage to the building, property or grounds exceeds the amount of the refundable deposit, the deposit will be used in full, with additional charges billed and due within 30 days of billing. Damages to plants, grounds, facilities, or equipment will be assessed on a value based on replacement costs, including labor.
