
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter V - Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 500 - NATIONAL ARBORETUM
##### Subpart B - Fee Schedule for Certain Uses of National Arboretum Facilities and Grounds
###### ยง 500.22 Fees and conditions for use of facilities and grounds.
####### Reservations.

(b)(1) Facilities and grounds are available by reservation at the discretion of the Director of the USNA and may be available to individuals or groups for uses that are consistent with the mission of the USNA. Agency initiatives may be granted first priority. Offices and hallways inside secured doors will not be available for use.

(2) Reservations to use USNA facilities and grounds may be made directly with the USNA. To ensure consideration, reservation requests should be made as far in advance as possible with a minimum of 15 calendar days prior to the date of use required for all reservations. This advanced notice will provide the USNA adequate time to prepare sites and assign staff and supervision as necessary.

(3) The USNA will make every effort to respond to requests in a quick and timely fashion. The USNA will respond to reservation requests within 5 working days with information as to whether the requested site is available for use. The USNA will also give notice to the prospective user of any planned activities (construction, maintenance, pesticide applications, and any similar activities) that might affect the planned use or event.

(4) A 50 percent non-refundable deposit will be due at the time of a booking in order to reserve a specific date and location. The remaining 50 percent is due five working days prior to the event.
