
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter V - Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 500 - NATIONAL ARBORETUM
##### Subpart B - Fee Schedule for Certain Uses of National Arboretum Facilities and Grounds
###### ยง 500.22 Fees and conditions for use of facilities and grounds.
####### Refundable Deposit Schedule.

(ii)

(7) Upon prior request, the Director may approve the consumption of beer and wine during uses of USNA pursuant to this section. Such permission generally will not be granted during times when USNA is open to the public. Director approval shall be conditioned upon compliance by users and by any of their agents or contractors, with all applicable provisions of the District of Columbia Code governing sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, including the rules of the District of Columbia Department of Consumer Affairs, Alcoholic Beverage Regulation Administration.

(8) All users of the USNA pursuant to this subpart, as well as all those contracting with such users of the USNA, shall comply with all Federal and local laws.

(9) The USNA is a Federal property under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Agriculture.

All activities are subject to Federal rules and regulations governing the use of public buildings and grounds.

(10) The USNA will not be responsible for any damage or loss suffered by an individual, group, or their contractor during a permitted event at the USNA.

(11) The Director may impose additional incidental terms and conditions concerning the use of the USNA facilities consistent with this part.

(12) Marriage ceremonies and accompanying receptions may only be held in the Dogwood Collection.
