
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter V - Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 500 - NATIONAL ARBORETUM
##### Subpart B - Fee Schedule for Certain Uses of National Arboretum Facilities and Grounds
###### ยง 500.23 Fees for commercial photography and cinematography on grounds.

The USNA may charge a fee for the use of the facility or grounds for purposes of commercial photography or cinematography as specified in ยง 500.24. Facilities and grounds are available for use for commercial photography or cinematography at the discretion of the USNA Director. Requests for use should be made a minimum of two weeks in advance of the required date. The USNA will charge for supervision costs at the rate of $40.00 per hour per security officer, in addition to the fees listed below. The USNA Director may waive fees for photography or cinematography conducted for the purpose of disseminating information to the public regarding the USNA and its mission or for the purpose of First Amendment activity. The USNA will charge a non-refundable application fee of $30 for commercial photography or cinematography activities that use models, sets or props that are not part of the natural, cultural resources, or administrative facilities features of the site; take place where members of the public are generally not allowed; or take place at a location where additional administrative costs are likely. If the application is approved and fees will be incurred, the application fee will be applied to the total fee due. No other credits will be given for the application fee. Fee payments for use of facilities or grounds or for commercial photography and cinematography must be made in advance of services being rendered. These payments are to be made in the form of a check or money order.
