
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 11 - NATIONAL APPEALS DIVISION
#### Subpart A - National Appeals Division Rules of Procedures
##### ยง 11.8 Division hearings.
###### Procedures applicable only to hearings.

(c)(1) Upon a timely request for a hearing under ยง 11.6(b), an appellant has the right to have a hearing by the Division on any adverse decision within 45 days after the date of receipt of the request for the hearing by the Division.

(2) The Hearing Officer shall set a reasonable deadline for submission of the following documents:

(i) By the appellant;

(A) A short statement of why the decision is wrong;

(B) A copy of any document not in the agency record that the appellant anticipates introducing at the hearing; and

(C) A list of anticipated witnesses and brief descriptions of the evidence such witnesses will offer.

(ii) By the agency:

(A) A copy of the adverse decision challenged by the appellant;

(B) A written explanation of the agency's position, including the regulatory or statutory basis therefor;

(C) A copy of any document not in the agency record that the agency anticipates introducing at the hearing; and

(D) A list of anticipated witnesses and brief descriptions of the evidence such witnesses will offer.

(3) Not less than 14 days prior to the hearing, the Division must provide the appellant, the authorized representative, and the agency a notice of hearing specifying the date, time, and place of the hearing. The hearing will be held in the State of residence of the appellant, as determined by the Hearing Officer, or at a location that is otherwise convenient to the appellant, the agency, and the Division. The notice also shall notify all parties of the right to obtain an official record of the hearing.
