
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 11 - NATIONAL APPEALS DIVISION
#### Subpart A - National Appeals Division Rules of Procedures
##### ยง 11.9 Director review of determinations of Hearing Officers.
###### Determination of Director.

(d)(1) The Director will conduct a review of the determination of the Hearing Officer using the agency record, the hearing record, the request for review, any responses submitted under paragraph (c) of this section, and such other arguments or information as may be accepted by the Director, in order to determine whether the decision of the Hearing Officer is supported by substantial evidence. Based on such review, the Director will issue a final determination notice that upholds, reverses, or modifies the determination of the Hearing Officer. The Director's determination upon review of a Hearing Officer's decision shall be considered to be the final determination under this part and shall not be appealable. However, if the Director determines that the hearing record is inadequate or that new evidence has been submitted, the Director may remand all or a portion of the determination to the Hearing Officer for further proceedings to complete the hearing record or, at the option of the Director, to hold a new hearing.

(2) The Director will complete the review and either issue a final determination or remand the determination not later than-

(i) 10 business days after receipt of the request for review, in the case of a request by the head of an agency; or

(ii) 30 business days after receipt of the request for review, in the case of a request by an appellant.

(3) In any case or any category of cases, the Director may delegate his or her authority to conduct a review under this section to any Deputy or Assistant Directors of the Division. In any case in which such review is conducted by a Deputy or Assistant Director under authority delegated by the Director, the Deputy or Assistant Director's determination shall be considered to be the determination of the Director under this part and shall be final and not appealable.
