
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Conservation Operations
##### PART 610 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
###### Subpart A - Conservation Operations
####### ยง 610.3 Assistance through conservation districts.

(a) Technical assistance is provided through and in cooperation with conservation districts in the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These districts, formed under authority of State laws, are operated and controlled by local citizens. They provide the leadership and the program needed to meet the conservation objectives of the district.

(b) NRCS furnishes technical assistance to conservation districts as specified in memorandums of understanding. Soil conservationists assigned to conservation districts work directly with land users and others according to the program needs and the priorities established by the conservation districts.

(c) The practical experience of land users is combined with the scientific knowledge and skills of professional conservationists to plan and carry out locally formulated conservation programs.

(d) When requested, technical assistance may be provided to owners, operators, or groups using land that is under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of the Interior if such land is included in a conservation district or if assistance is in accordance with memorandums of understanding identifying the coordination of agency activities.
