
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Conservation Operations
##### PART 612 - SNOW SURVEYS AND WATER SUPPLY FORECASTS
###### ยง 612.2 Snow survey and water supply forecast activities.

To carry out the cooperative snow survey and water supply forecast program, NRCS:

(a) Establishes, maintains, and operates manual and automated snow course and related hydro meteorological networks. Planning for such networks is carried out in accordance with OMB Circular A-62.

(b) Determines and provides information on the expected water supply, including seasonal streamflow data. If pertinent and appropriate to the needs of cooperators and not otherwise available to them, may provide necessary interpretative analyses and forecasts required for operation of water-control structures and/or agricultural operations.

(c) On request and to the extent NRCS resources and any required cooperator contributions are available, establishes hydrometeorological stations to cllect and provide data and necessary interpretive analyses to the requesting party. By written agreement NRCS may accept cooperators' funds, materials, equipment, and services for this purpose.

(d) Develops and encourages use of new techniques and improving data collection and processing.

(e) Cooperates with other federal, state, and local agencies, organizations, and Canadian provinces and agencies.
