
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Water Resources
##### PART 622 - WATERSHED PROJECTS
###### Subpart B - Qualifications
####### ยง 622.11 Eligible watershed projects.

(a) To be eligible for Federal assistance, a watershed project must:

(1) Meet the definition of a watershed area as defined in NRCS's National Watersheds Manual.

(2) Not exceed 250,000 acres in size.

(3) Not include any single structure that provides more than 12,500 acre-feet of floodwater detention capacity nor more than 25,000 acre-feet of total capacity.

(4) Have significant land or water management problems that can be solved or alleviated by measures for watershed protection, flood prevention, drainage, irrigation, recreation, fish and wildlife, municipal or industrial water supply, or other water management.

(5) Produce substantial benefits to the general public, to communities, and to groups of landowners.

(6) Cannot be installed by individual or collective landowners under alternative cost-sharing assistance.

(7) Have strong local citizen and sponsor support through agreement to obtain land rights, contribute the local cost of construction, and carry out operation and maintenance.

(b) Works and improvement that may be included in a watershed project are those that:

(1) Contribute to reducing floodwater, erosion, and sediment damages.

(2) Further the conservation, development, utilization, and disposal of water and the conservation and proper utilization of land.

(3) Have the greatest net national economic benefits consistent with protecting the Nation's environment (for structural water resource projects) relative to alternative works, unless an exception is granted by the Secretary.

(4) Are implemented pursuant to the Regional Conservation Partnership Program authorized by Subtitle I of Title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99-198).
