
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Water Resources
##### PART 623 - EMERGENCY WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 623.13 Wetlands reserve plan of operations.

(a) After NRCS has accepted the applicant for enrollment in the program, a WRPO will be developed by the landowner and NRCS, in consultation with FWS.

(b) The WRPO shall:

(1) Include an aerial photo displaying the land offered for enrollment;

(2) Specify the manner in which the eligible land shall be restored, operated, and maintained to accomplish the goal of the program, including, but not limited to: (i) measures to control noxious weeds and insect pests in order to comply with applicable Federal, or State noxious weed and pest control laws; and (ii) measures to control other specified species of weeds, insects or pests;

(3) Specify compatible land uses for personal enjoyment for which the landowner may be compensated. These compatible land uses shall be reserved to the landowner in the easement. Such uses may include, among others: (1) recreational use, hunting and fishing; (ii) manage timber production including harvesting; and (iii) managed haying or grazing consistent with the goals of the program;

(4) Set out cost estimates of the practices required by the WRPO, the offer for the easement, and other reimbursement costs;

(5) Identify access routes to be maintained for wetland restoration activities and future management and easement monitoring in connection with the land to be enrolled;

(6) Make provisions deemed necessary for maintaining public drainage systems if present on lands subject to the WRPO;

(7) Contain scheduled implementation dates for restoration practices;

(8) Contain other provisions or limitations as NRCS, in consultation with the FWS, determines to be necessary.

(c) NRCS in consultation with FWS will collect from State or Federal agencies whatever additional information is deemed necessary for the development of the WRPO with the landowner.

(d) The WRPO must be signed by NRCS, FWS, Conservation District (CD), and the landowner(s). However, if agreement between NRCS and FWS, or CD at the local level is not reached within 20 calendar days, the WRPO shall be developed by the State Conservationist of NRCS in consultation with FWS or CD.

(e) The WRPO may require that a temporary vegetative or water cover be established on the property if immediate establishment of a permanent cover is not practicable or otherwise desirable.

(f) The terms of an approved WRPO shall not relieve the program participant of any obligation or term imposed or provided for in the contract, the easement, or this part.

(g) WRPO, where appropriate, will provide for the development of a tree planting plan with the assistance of the FS or State forestry agency.

(h) The WRPO, where appropriate, will provide for the development by NRCS of detailed plans for weed control, structural measures and their operation, vegetation establishment and management, and other measures as needed.

(i) Revisions of the WRPO to enhance or protect the value for which the easement was established may be made at any time at the request of either NRCS, FWS, the owner and upon the concurrence of all three parties.
