
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Water Resources
##### PART 625 - HEALTHY FORESTS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 625.12 30-year contracts.

(a) To enroll land in HFRP through the 30-year contract option, a landowner will sign a 30-year contract with NRCS. The contract will require that the contract area be maintained in accordance with HFRP goals and objectives for the duration of the term of the contract, including the restoration, protection, enhancement, maintenance, and management of habitat and forest ecosystem functions and values.

(b) For the duration of its term, the 30-year contract will require, at a minimum, that the landowner and the landowner's assignees, will cooperate in the restoration, protection, enhancement, maintenance, and management of the land in accordance with the contract and with the terms of the HFRP restoration plan. In addition, the contract will grant to the United States through NRCS:

(1) A right of access to the contract area by NRCS or its representative;

(2) The right to allow such activities by the landowner as hunting and fishing, managed timber harvest, or periodic haying or grazing, if such use is consistent with the long-term protection and enhancement of the purposes for which the contract was established;

(3) The right to specify the amount, method, timing, intensity, and duration of the activities listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as incorporated into the terms of the contract; and

(4) The right to perform restoration, protection, enhancement, maintenance, and management activities on the contract area.

(c) The landowner will:

(1) Comply with the terms of the contract;

(2) Comply with all terms and conditions of any associated agreement or contract; and

(3) Agree to the long-term restoration, protection, enhancement, maintenance, and management of the contract area in accordance with the terms of the contract and related agreements.

(d) A 30-year contract will:

(1) Be signed by the participant;

(2) Identify the amount and extent of cost-share assistance that NRCS will provide for the adoption or implementation of the approved conservation treatment identified in the restoration plan; and

(3) Include any other provision determined necessary or appropriate by the NRCS representative.

(e) Once the landowner and NRCS have signed a 30-year contract, the land will be considered enrolled in HFRP.
