
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 631 - GREAT PLAINS CONSERVATION PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 631.9 Conservation plan.

(a) An applicant is responsible for developing a conservation plan, in cooperation with the conservation district, that protects the resource base in a manner acceptable to NRCS. This plan will be used as a basis for developing a contract. Conservation treatment is to be planned and implemented as a resource management system.

(b) The applicant decides how the land will be used and selects the resource management systems that will achieve the applicant's objectives and provide protection of soil, water, and related resources acceptable to NRCS. Eligible practices may be included in the conservation plan to enhance fish and wildlife and recreation resources, promote the economic use of land, and reduce or control agriculture-related pollution.

(c) Technical assistance will be provided by NRCS, as needed by the land user. NRCS may utilize the services of private, local, state, and other Federal agencies in discharging its responsibilities for technical assistance.

(d) Participants are responsible for accomplishing the conservation plan and may use all available sources of assistance, including other USDA programs that are consistent with the conservation plan.

(e) All conservation practices scheduled in the conservation plan are to be carried out in accordance with the applicable NRCS technical guide.
