
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 632 - RURAL ABANDONED MINE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Participation
####### ยง 632.22 Contracts.
######## Transfer of contract.

(f)(1) If during the contract period all or part of the right and interest in the land is transferred by sale or other action, the contract is terminated on the land unit that was transferred and the land user:

(i) Forfeits all right to any future cost-share payments on the transferred land unit, and

(ii) Must refund cost-share payments that have been made on the transferred land unit not to exceed the difference between the estimated value of the land at the time of entering into the contract and at the time of transfer, unless the new land user becomes a party to the contract as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(2) If the new land user becomes a party to the contract:

(i) He is to assume all obligations of the previous land user on the transferred land unit.

(ii) The contract with the new land user is to remain in effect with the original terms and conditions.

(iii) The contract is to be modified in writing to show the changes caused by the transfer. If the modification is not acceptable to the contracting officer, the provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section apply.

(3) The transfer of all or part of a land unit by a land user does not affect the rights and obligations of other land users who have signed the contract.
