
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 632 - RURAL ABANDONED MINE PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Cost-Share Procedures
####### ยง 632.31 Cost-share payment.
######## Authorization for payment.

(e)(1) Materials or services needed to carry out contracts are to be obtained by land users. Contracts may provide for part or all of the cost-share payment for a practice or identifiable unit to be made directly to suppliers of materials or services. The materials or services must be delivered or performed before payment is made.

(2) The contracting officer is to authorize payment for materials or services not exceeding:

(i) The cost share of the material or service used, or

(ii) The total cost share of the practices or identifiable unit if requested by the land user.

(3) The land user who purchases materials or services to carry out a contract is responsible for them until the district conservationist determines that the material or service was used for the intended purpose. If a material or service cost-shared by NRCS is used for a purpose other than to carry out the contract, the land user is indebted to the United States for the cost of the misused material or service. This indebtedness is to be repaid to NRCS as a refund or withheld from cost-share payments otherwise due the land user under the contract.

(4) NRCS has the right to inspect materials or services and to take samples for testing. Inspections by NRCS will not be necessary if NRCS considers State inspection regulations adequate.

(5) Materials or services must meet the quality standards as specified. NRCS may make exceptions for materials or services that do not meet the standards only if they will satisfactorily serve the intended purpose. NRCS is to deduct from the cost-share payment the difference between the price of the materials or services specified and the actual value of the different materials or services.
