
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 632 - RURAL ABANDONED MINE PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Appeals and Violations
####### ยง 632.42 Violation procedures.
######## Notice of possible violation.

(c)(1) When the State conservationist is notified that a contract violation may have occurred that may warrant a penalty of forfeiture, refund, payment adjustment, or termination, he is to notify, in writing, each land user who signed the agreement of the alleged violation. This notice may be personally delivered or sent by certified or registered mail. A land user is considered to have received the notice at the time of personal receipt acknowledged in writing, at the time of the delivery of a certified or registered letter, or at the time of the return of a certified or registered letter where delivery was refused.

(2) The notice setting forth the nature of the alleged violation is to give the land user an opportunity to appear at a hearing before a hearing officer designated by the State conservationist. The land user's request for a hearing is to be submitted in writing and must be received in the NRCS field office within 30 days after receipt of the notice. The land user is to be notified in writing by the hearing officer of the time, date, and place for the hearing. The land user is to have no right to a hearing if he does not file a written request for a hearing, or if he or his representative does not appear at the appointed time, unless the hearing officer, at his discretion, permits an appearance. A request for a hearing filed by a land user is considered to be a request by all land users who signed the contract.
