
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 632 - RURAL ABANDONED MINE PROGRAM
###### Subpart F - Environment
####### ยง 632.50 Environmental evaluation.

(a) Environmental evaluation is an integral part of planning used by NRCS in developing each reclamation plan under this program. Planning includes site inventory and analysis, evaluation of reasonable alternatives, and identification of significant environmental impacts. Major points in planning when NRCS or the land user can make decisions concerning further action are:

(1) After an evaluation of the application for program assistance to verify eligibility, land user objectives, and priorities for funding.

(2) After a site-specific inventory and analysis to evaluate feasible treatment alternatives, costs, and environmental impacts.

(3) After development of an acceptable reclamation plan as a basis for contract.

(4) Before the signing of a mutually acceptable contract for financial cost-share assistance.

(b) The scope and complexity of the assessment is to be consistent with the scope and complexity of the proposed reclamation.

(c) An interdisciplinary team, consisting of NRCS and/or other cooperating agency personnel as needed, is used in making the assessment.

(d) The Responsible Federal Official (RFO) is to use the environmental evaluation to make a decision concerning the need to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) in accordance with ยง 632.52.
