
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 632 - RURAL ABANDONED MINE PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Appeals and Violations
####### ยง 632.42 Violation procedures.
######## Hearing.

(d)A public hearing is to be conducted to obtain the facts about the alleged violation. The hearing officer is to limit the hearing to relevant facts and evidence and is not to be bound by the strict rules of evidence as required in courts of law. Witnesses may be sworn in at the discretion of the hearing officer.

(1) The land user or his representative is to be given full opportunity to present oral or documentary evidence about the alleged violation. Likewise, the United States may submit statements and evidence. Individuals not otherwise represented at the hearing may be permitted, at the discretion of the hearing officer, to give information of evidence. The hearing officer, at his discretion, may permit witnesses to be cross-examined.

(2) The hearing officer is to make a record of the hearing so that the testimony can be summarized. A summary of the testimony may be made if both the land user and the State conservationist agree. A transcript of the hearing is to be made if requested by either the State conservationist or the land user within 10 days of the hearing. If a transcript is requested by the land user, the land user may be assessed the cost of a copy of the transcript.

(3) The hearing officer is to close the hearing after a reasonable period of time if the land user or his representative is not present at the scheduled time. The hearing officer may, at his discretion, accept information and evidence submitted by others present for the hearing.

(4) The hearing officer is to furnish the State conservationist with a written report setting forth his findings, conclusions, and recommendations. The report is to include the summary of testimony or transcript made of the hearing and any other information that would aid the State conservationist in reaching his decision.
