
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 632 - RURAL ABANDONED MINE PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Appeals and Violations
####### ยง 632.42 Violation procedures.
######## Appeal to Chief.

(f)Any land user affected by a decision of the State conservationist has the right of appeal to the Chief. The appeal and any briefs or statements must be received in the Office of the Chief within 30 days after the land user has received notice of the State conservationist's decision. The State conservationist is to file a brief or statement in the Office of the Chief within 20 days after the land user's brief or statement is received there. The appeal is to be limited to the records and the issues made before the State conservationist. The Chief's decision is final. The decision is to be determined by the record before him and the issues presented in the appeal, and the land user is to be notified in writing.

(1) If the decision provides for termination of the contract, it is to state that the contract is terminated, that all rights to further cost-share payments under the contract are forfeited, and that cost-share payments received under the contract are to be refunded, but the refund is not to exceed the difference between the estimated value of the land at time of entering into the contract and the value at time of termination. The decision is to state the amount of refund and method of payment.

(2) If the decision does not provide for termination of the contract, the land user may be required to make a refund of cost-share payments or to accept payment adjustments. The decision is to state the amount of refunds of cost-share payments or payment adjustments. In determining amounts of refund or payment adjustments, the following are to be considered:

(i) The extent of the violation.

(ii) Whether the violation was deliberate or the result of negligence or was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the land user.

(iii) The effect on the program if no refund or payment adjustment is required.

(iv) The extent to which the land user benefited by the violation.

(v) The effect of the violation on the contract as a whole.

(vi) Other considerations including the appropriateness and reasonableness of the refund or payment adjustment.
