
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 634.3 Administration.

At the national level, the Secretary of Agriculture, with the concurrence of the Administrator, EPA, administers RCWP. The Secretary of Agiculture has delegated responsibility for administration of the program (43 FR 8252) to the Administrator, Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). NRCS will be assisted by other USDA agencies in accordance with existing authorities.

(a) A National Rural Clean Water Coordinating Committee (NRCWCC), chaired by the Administrator, NRCS, is to assist in carrying out the Rural Clean Water Program.

(b) At the State level, a State Rural Clean Water Coordinating Committee (SRCWCC) is to assist the State Conservationist, NRCS, in administering the program. The State Conservationist will chair the SRCWCC.

(c) To assure coordination at the project level, a local Rural Clean Water Coordinating Committee is to be established at the time the application is developed. An existing local committee may be used, where practicable, to perform the functions of this committee.

(d) The Administrator, NRCS, through the State Conservationists, NRCS, is to enter into agreements, where practicable, with soil conservation districts, State soil and water conservation agencies, or State water quality agencies to administer all or part of the program for a project area. That portion of program administration to be conducted by these agencies will be defined in the project application and grant agreement. Where this is not practicable, USDA will administer the program in a project area. In those instances where USDA retains administration of the program in a project area, NRCS will enter into agreements for the transfer of funds to the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) for the administration of part of the program.
