
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Project Authorization and Funding
####### ยง 634.13 Project applications.

(a) The SRCWCC is to assure that a process exists to prepare the RCWP project applications for submission by the Governor in order of priority to the Administrator, NRCS, through the State Conservationst, NRCS. This process must include the opportunity for public participation, especially participation by potential RCWP participants. Applications will be submitted in conformance with OMB Circular A-95.

(b) The preparation and submission of applications are to be based on the priorities established by the Governor and data and information in the approved agricultural portion of the State or areawide 208 water quality management plan.

(c) Applications shall contain the following components. Additional material may be added when, in the judgment of the applicant, it is needed to fully support the application and/or would enhance the probability of project authorization. Information provided under each component shall be in sufficient detail to permit the NRCWCC to evaluate the application using priority criteria in ยง 634.14.

(1) Description of the project area,

(2) Severity of the water quality problem

(3) Objectives and planned action,

(4) Schedule for carrying out the plan, and
