
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Project Authorization and Funding
####### ยง 634.16 Suspension of grants.
######## Effect of suspension order.

(e)(1) Upon receipt of a suspension order, the administering agency shall promptly comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work suspension. During the suspension period, NRCS shall either:

(i) Cancel the suspension order, in full or in part, and authorize resumption of work, or

(ii) Take action to terminate the work covered by such order as provided by ยง 634.17.

(2) If a suspension order is canceled, or the period of the order expires, the administering agency shall promptly resume the suspended work. An equitable adjustment shall be made in the grant period, the project period, or grant amount, or all of these, and the grant agreement may be amended:

(i) The suspension order results in an increase in the time, or cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of the project; and

(ii) The administering agency asserts a written claim for such adjustment within thirty (30) days after the end of the period of work suspension. If no written claim is made, NRCS may unilaterally make such adjustments.

(iii) Reasonable costs resulting from the suspension order shall be allowed in arriving at any terminations settlement.

(3) Costs incurred by the administering agency after a suspension order is delivered that are not authorized by this section or specifically authorized in writing by the State Conservationist, NRCS, shall not be allowable costs.
