
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Project Authorization and Funding
####### ยง 634.17 Termination of grant agreement.
######## Effect of grant termination.

(c)(1)(i) In those cases where cause for grant termination is based on the administering agency's failure or inability to perform (ยง 634.17(b)(1)), upon termination, the administering agency must refund or credit to the United States that portion of the grant funds paid or owed to the administering agency and allocable to the terminated project work. Funds needed to meet unavoidable commitments may be retained. All other funds, including unexpended cost-sharing monies for existing RCWP contracts executed prior to the termination date, shall be refunded to the United States. The administering agency shall not make any new commitments or enter into any new RCWP contracts. The administering agency shall reduce the amount of other outstanding commitments insofar as possible and report to the State Conservationist, NRCS, the uncommitted balance of funds awarded under the grant. The allowability of termination costs will be determined in conformance with applicable Federal cost principles.

(ii) Upon termination of a grant agreement, existing RCWP contracts and their related obligations will immediately, and in no case later than 5 calendar days be transferred to the ASCS county office to assure continuity in payments to participants. The State Conservationist, NRCS, will immediately initiate action under ยง 634.15 to establish a new administering agency for completion of the project.

(2) In those cases where cause for grant termination is based on failure to achieve the planned actions through no fault of the administering agency, the termination agreement and amended grant agreement are to permit the administering agency to fulfill the obligations of its existing RCWP contracts. The administering agency shall not make any new commitments or enter into any new RCWP contracts without NRCS approval.
