
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Project Authorization and Funding
####### ยง 634.17 Termination of grant agreement.
######## Termination agreement or notice.

(a)(1) The State Conservationist, NRCS, may, based on evidence of failure to comply with the terms of the grant agreement, issue a notice of intent to terminate the grant agreement. The notice of intent to terminate has the force and effect of extending or modifying the conditions of the suspend order. Any modification of the conditions of the suspend order shall be shown in the notice and discussed with the administering agency. The State Conservationist shall give not less than ten (10) days written notice to the administering agency (certified mail, return receipt requested) of intent to terminate the grant in whole or in part.

(2) After the administering agency has been afforded an opportunity for consultation, the State Conservationist, NRCS, may request authorization from the Administrator, NRCS, to terminate the grant in whole or in part. If the Administrator, NRCS, concurs in the termination action, the proposed termination notice will be forwarded to the Administrator, EPA, for concurrence.

(3) After the Administrators, NRCS and EPA, have been informed of any expressed views of the administering agency and concurred in the proposed termination, the State Conservationist, NRCS, may, in writing (certified mail, return receipt requested), terminate the grant in whole or in part.

(4) Termination of all or part of the grant agreement may be carried out by either execution of a termination agreement by the State Conservationist, NRCS, or issuance of a grant termination notice by the State Conservationist, NRCS. The agreement or notice shall establish the effective date of termination of the grant, the basis for settlement of grant termination costs, and the amount and date of payment of any sums due either party.
