
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Participant RCWP Contracts
####### ยง 634.26 Contract modifications.

(a) The administering agency may modify contracts previously entered into if it is determined to be desirable to carry out the purposes of the program, facilitate the practical administration thereof, or to accomplish equitable treatment with respect to other conservation, land-use, or water-quality programs.

(b) Requirements of active contracts may be waived or modified by the administering agency only if such waiver or modification is specifically provided for in these regulations. NRCS concurrence in modifications is necessary when modifications involve a technical aspect of the participant's water-quality plan. A contract may be modified only if it is determined that such modifications are desirable to carry out purposes of the program or to facilitate the program's practical administration.

(c) Contracts may be modified to add, delete, substitute, or reinstall best management practices when:

(1) The installed measure failed to achieve the desired results through no fault of the participant,

(2) The installed measure deteriorated because of conditions beyond the control of the participant, or

(3) Another BMP is substituted that will achieve the desired results.

(d) Contract modifications are not required when items of work are accomplished prior to scheduled completion or within 1 year following the year of scheduled completion.

(e) If, during the contract period, all or part of the right and interest in the land is transferred by sale or other transfer action, the contract is terminated on the land unit that was transferred and the participant having control over such land:

(1) Forfeits all right to any future cost-share payments on the transferred land unit, and

(2) Must refund with interest all cost-share payments that have been made on the transferred land unit unless the new land owner or operator becomes a party to the contract, except that where it is determined by the administering agency, with the approval of the State conservationist, NRCS, that the established BMPs will provide water quality benefits for the design life of the BMP, the payment may be retained.

(f) If the new land owner or operator becomes a party to the contract:

(1) Payment which has been earned, but not made to the participant who applied the BMPs and had control prior to the transfer, can be made,

(2) Such land owner or operator is to assume all obligations of the previous participant on the transferred land unit,

(3) The contract with the new participant is to remain in effect with the original terms and conditions, and

(4) The contract is to be modified in writing to show the changes caused by the transfer. If the modification is not acceptable to the administering agency, the provisions of paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section apply.

(g) The transfer of all or part of a land unit by a participant does not affect the rights and obligations of other participants who have signed the contract.
