
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Participant RCWP Contracts
####### ยง 634.24 Cost sharing.

(a) The portion of BMP cost (including labor) to be cost shared shall be that part which the Secretary determines is necessary and appropriate. The value of land upon which BMP's are applied, or the participant's water rights, cannot be considered a part of the participant's share of the cost.

(b) The administering agency, in consultation with the county ASC committee(s), soil conservation district(s), and designated management agency will annually set maximum individual BMP cost-share levels for the project area. However, the Federal share of the cost of the contract cannot exceed 50 percent unless a variance has been granted.

(c) Recommended variances exceeding the 50 percent level must be in the public interest and based on the following criteria:

(1) The main benefits to be derived from measures are related to improving offsite water quality, and

(2) The matching share requirements would place a burden on the landowner or operator which would probably prevent him or her from participating in the program.

(d) BMP's to be cost shared must have a positive effect on water quality by reducing the amount of agricultural nonpoint source pollutants that enter a stream or lake.

(e) Cost sharing is not to be made available for:

(1) Measures installed primarily for bringing additional land into crop production, including but not limited to land clearing and brush removal;

(2) Measures installed primarily for increasing production on existing cropland, including but not limited to bedding, field ditches, open drains, and tile drains;

(3) Measures having flood protection as the primary purpose, including but not limited to open channels, clearing and snagging, and obstruction removal;

(4) Structural measures authorized for installation under Pub. L. 83-566.

(f) The Federal cost-share level is not to be reduced by the contribution of a State or subdivision thereof. Total payments from Federal, State, and local sources for a BMP may not exceed the total cost of that BMP.
