
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Participant RCWP Contracts
####### ยง 634.27 Cost-share payment.
######## Assignments, set-offs, and claims.

(h)(1) A State or local administering agency may allow the assignment of payments to the extent provided by State law. When ASCS is designated as the administering agency, assignments by any participant who may be entitled to cost-share payment under the program are prohibited unless they are made in accordance with the provisions of section 203, Title 31, U.S.C., as amended, and section 15, Title 41, U.S.C., as amended.

(2) If any participant to whom compensation is payable under RCWP is indebted to the United States and such indebtedness is listed on the county register of indebtedness maintained by the County ASC committee, the compensation due the participant must be used (set-off) to reduce that idebtedness. Indebtedness to USDA is to be given first consideration. Deductions for setoffs involving a nonresident alien shall be made as provided by 26 U.S.C. 871. Setoffs made pursuant to this section are not to deprive the participant of any right to contest the justness of the indebtedness involved, either by administrative appeal or by legal action.

(3) Any cost-share payment due any participant shall be allowed without deduction of claims for advances except as provided for above and without regard to any claim or lien against any crop, or proceeds thereof, in favor of the participant or any other creditor.
