
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Participant RCWP Contracts
####### ยง 634.31 Appeals of contract violations.
######## Decision by the administering agency.

(e)The administering agency shall make a decision within 30 days on the basis of the appeals board report, recommendations of soil conservation district board, if any, and any other information available, including if applicable, the amount of the forfeiture, refund, or payment adjustment. The decision shall state whether the violation is of such a nature as to warrant termination of the contract. The administering agency shall notify, in writing, each participant who signed the contract of its decision. The administering agency may authorize or require the reopening of any hearing before the appeals board for any reason at any time before their decision. The administering agency's decision shall be final.

(1) If the decision provides for termination of the contract, it shall state that the contract is terminated and that all rights to further cost-share payments under the contract are forfeited and that all cost-share payments received under the contract shall be refunded with interest. The decision is to state the amount of refund and method of payment.

(2) If the decision does not provide for termination of the contract, the participant may be required to make a refund of cost-share payments or to accept payment adjustments. The decision shall state the amount and justification for refunds of cost-share payments or payment adjustments.
