
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Participant RCWP Contracts
####### ยง 634.31 Appeals of contract violations.
######## Hearing.

(d)The appeals board shall conduct an open hearing to obtain the facts about the alleged violation. The appeals board shall limit the hearing to relevant facts and evidence, and shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence. Witnesses may be sworn in at the discretion of the appeals board.

(1) The participant or his or her representative shall be given full opportunity to present oral or documentary evidence about the alleged violation. Likewise, the administering agency may submit statements and evidence. Individuals not otherwise represented at the hearing may, at the discretion of the appeals board, be permitted to give information or evidence. The appeals board, at its discretion, may permit witnesses to be cross-examined.

(2) The appeals board shall make a record of the hearing. A summary of the testimony may be made if both the participant and the appeals board agree. A transcript of the hearing shall be made if requested by either the appeals board or the participant within 10 days prior to the hearing. If a transcript is requested by the participant, the participant may be assessed the cost of a copy of the transcript.

(3) The appeals board shall, after a reasonable period of time, close the hearing if the participant or his or her representative is not present at the scheduled time. The appeals board may, at its discretion, accept information and evidence submitted by others present for the hearing.

(4) The appeals board shall furnish the administering agency and the State Conservationist, NRCS, with a written report setting forth their findings, conclusions, and recommendations. The report shall include the summary of testimony or transcript made of the hearing and any other information which would aid the administering agency in reaching a decision.
