
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 634 - RURAL CLEAN WATER PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Participant RCWP Contracts
####### ยง 634.31 Appeals of contract violations.
######## Notice of possible violation.

(c)(1) When the administering agency is notified that a contract violation may have occurred and the matter is not resolved under ยง 634.31(b)(1) it shall notify, in writing, each participant who signed the contract of the alleged violation. This notice setting forth the alleged violation may be personally delivered or sent by certified or registered mail. A participant is considered to have received the notice at the time of personal receipt acknowledged in writing, at the time of delivery of a certified or registered letter, or at the time of the return of a refused certified or registered letter.

(2) The notice shall give the participant an opportunity to appear at a hearing before an appeals board. The participant's request for a hearing shall be submitted in writing, and must be received by the appeals board within 30 days after receipt of the notice. The participant shall be notified in writing by the appeals board of the time, date, and place for the hearing. The participant shall have no right to a hearing if he does not file a written request for a hearing, or if he or his representative does not appear at the appointed time, unless the appeals board, at its discretion, permits an appearance. A request for a hearing filed by a participant shall be considered to be a request by all participants who signed the contract.
