
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 635 - EQUITABLE RELIEF FROM INELIGIBILITY
###### § 635.7 Procedures for granting equitable relief.

(a) The Chief or State Conservationist may initiate a request for equitable relief for a participant that meets the requirement of this part.

(b) Participants may request equitable relief from the Chief or the State Conservationist as provided in §§ 635.3 and 635.4 of this part.

(c) Only a participant directly affected by the non-compliance with the covered program requirements is eligible for equitable relief under this part.

(d) Requests by a participant for equitable relief must be made in writing, no later than 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the notification of non-compliance with the requirements of the covered conservation program.

(e) Requests for equitable relief must include any information necessary to determine eligibility under this part and such other information as required by NRCS to determine whether granting equitable relief is appropriate. Information needed by the agency to assess equitable relief requests will be provided and updated by applicable policy and procedure.

(f) If equitable relief is denied by the Chief or the State Conservationist, the participant will be provided with written notice of appeal rights to the National Appeals Division, pursuant to 7 CFR part 614.
