
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 636 - WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 636.2 Administration.

(a) The regulations in this part will be administered under the general supervision and direction of the Chief. The funds, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) are available to NRCS to carry out WHIP. Accordingly, where NRCS is mentioned in this part, it also refers to CCC's funds, facilities, and authorities, where applicable.

(b) The State Conservationist may accept recommendations from the State Technical Committee and Tribal Conservation Advisory Council (for tribal land) in the implementation of the program and in establishing program direction for WHIP in the applicable State or tribal land. The State Conservationist has the authority to accept or reject the State Technical Committee and the Tribal Conservation Advisory Council's (for tribal land) recommendation; however, the State Conservationist will give strong consideration to the State Technical Committee and the Tribal Conservation Advisory Council's recommendation.

(c) NRCS may enter into agreements with Federal and State agencies, Indian tribes, conservation districts, local units of government, public and private organizations, and individuals to assist with program implementation, including the provision of technical assistance. NRCS may make payments pursuant to said agreements for program implementation and for other goals consistent with the program provided for in this part.

(d) NRCS will provide the public with notice of opportunities to apply for participation in the program.

(e) No delegation in this part to lower organizational levels will preclude the Chief, or designee, from determining any issues arising under this part or from reversing or modifying any determination made under this part.
