
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Long Term Contracting
##### PART 636 - WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 636.8 WHIP plan of operations.

(a) As a condition of participation, the participant develops a WHIP plan of operations with the assistance of NRCS or other public or private natural resource professionals who are approved by NRCS. A WHIP plan of operations encompasses the parcel of land where habitat will be established, improved, protected, enhanced, or restored. The WHIP plan of operations will be approved by NRCS and address at least one of the following as determined by NRCS:

(1) Fish and wildlife habitat conditions that are of concern to the participant;

(2) Fish and wildlife habitat concerns identified in State, regional, tribal land, or national conservation initiatives, as referenced in ยง 636.6(a); or

(3) Fish and wildlife habitat concerns identified in an approved area-wide plan that addresses the wildlife resource habitat concern.

(b) The WHIP plan of operations forms the basis for the WHIP cost-share agreement and will be attached and included as part of the cost-share agreement, along with the O&M agreement. The WHIP plan of operations includes a schedule for implementation and maintenance of the conservation activities, as determined by NRCS.

(c) The WHIP plan of operations may be modified in accordance with ยง 636.10.

(d) All conservation activities in the WHIP plan of operations must be approved by NRCS and developed and carried out in accordance with the applicable FOTG.

(e) The participant is responsible for the implementation of the WHIP plan of operations.
