
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter F - Support Activities
##### PART 650 - COMPLIANCE WITH NEPA
###### Subpart B - Related Environmental Concerns
####### ยง 650.21 Working relations with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and related State environmental agencies.
######## Coordination and implementation.

(d)(1) The NRCS national office will:

(i) Within the framework of USDA agreements and guidelines, develop agreements for undertaking specific activities or projects of national significance and mutual advantage.

(ii) Assist EPA as requested in developing EPA policy, guidelines, and standards.

(iii) Consider EPA needs in soil survey and land, inventory, and monitoring activities.

(iv) Maintain needed liaison and develop mutual guidelines with EPA on water resources work and in coordinating EIS's.

(v) Advise EPA regarding soils, plant materials, and soil and water conservation techniques.

(vi) Establish procedures for periodic review of NRCS national standards for treatment systems and practices for agricultural pollution abatement, including wind and water erosion and sediment control, transport of pesticides, organic matter and fertilizers, and burning of residues or clearing debris.

(2) The TSC director will:

(i) Within the framework of NRCS memorandums and guidelines coordinate with the EPA regional administrator(s) the development of needed agreements for undertaking specific activities or projects of multistate significance and mutual advantage.

(3) The state conservationist will:

(i) Obtain early input of EPA and interested state and local environmental agencies in the planning process for projects or measures within the state impacting on the environment.

(ii) Coordinate preparations of NRCS practice standards and procedures for agricultural pollution abatement within the state with EPA and related state agencies.

(iii) Encourage the development of a coordinated review and approval process within the state with EPA and appropriate state and local agencies including conservation districts for actions of mutual concern.

(iv) Attempt to resolve all EPA areas of concern on NRCS assisted project-type actions within the state before a final EIS is prepared.
