
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter F - Support Activities
##### PART 650 - COMPLIANCE WITH NEPA
###### Subpart B - Related Environmental Concerns
####### ยง 650.25 Flood-plain management.
######## Steps for project assistance programs.

(2)(i) NRCS project assistance to local sponsoring organizations (conservation districts and other legal entities of State government) and land users is carried out primarily on non-Federal land in response to requests for assistance. NRCS helps the local sponsoring organizations prepare a plan for implementing the needed resource measures.

(ii) NRCS uses an interdisciplinary environmental evaluation (ยง 650.6 of this part) as a basis for providing recommendations and alternatives to project sponsors. Flood-plain management is an integral part of every NRCS environmental evaluation. NRCS delineates the base flood plain by using detailed HUD flood insurance maps and other available data, as appropriate, and provides recommendations to sponsors on alternatives to avoid adverse effects and incompatible development in base flood plains. NRCS will develop, as needed, detailed 100-year and 500-year flood-plain maps where there are none.

(iii) NRCS's NEPA process (part 650 of this chapter) is used to integrate the spirit and intent of E.O. 11988 Sections 2(a) and 2(c) into agency planning and recommendations for land and water use decisions by local sponsoring organizations and land users.

(iv) NRCS will terminate assistance to a local sponsoring organization in project programs if it becomes apparent that decisions by land users and local jurisdictions concerning flood-plain management would likely result in adverse effects or incompatible development and the environmental evaluation reveals that there are practicable alternatives to the proposed project that would not cause adverse effects on the base flood plain.

(v) In carrying out the planning and installation of land and water resource conservation projects, NRCS will avoid, to the extent possible, the long-term and short-term adverse effects associated with the occupancy and modification of base flood plains. In addition, NRCS will also avoid direct or indirect support of development in the base flood plain wherever there is a practicable alternative. Where appropriate, NRCS will require design modifications to minimize harm to or within the base flood plain. NRCS will provide appropriate public notice and public participation in the continuing planning process in accordance with NRCS NEPA process.

(vi) NRCS may require the local government to adopt and enforce appropriate flood plain regulations as a condition to receiving project financial assistance.
