
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 12 - HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND CONSERVATION AND WETLAND CONSERVATION
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 12.5 Exemption.
###### Good faith.

(5)(i) No person will become ineligible under ยง 12.4 as a result of the failure of such person to apply a conservation system on highly erodible land if all of the following apply:

(A) FSA determines such person has acted in good faith and without the intent to violate the provisions of this part;

(B) NRCS determines that the person complies with paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section; and

(C) The good faith determination of the FSA county or State committee has been reviewed and approved by the applicable State Executive Director, with the technical concurrence of the State Conservationist; or district director, with the technical concurrence of the area conservationist.

(ii) A person who otherwise meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(A) and (a)(5)(i)(C) of this section will be allowed a reasonable period of time, as determined by NRCS, but not to exceed one year, during which to implement the measures and practices necessary to be considered actively applying the person's conservation plan, as determined by USDA. If a person does not take the required corrective actions, the person may be determined to be ineligible for the crop year during which such actions were to be taken, as well as any subsequent crop year.

(iii) Notwithstanding the good-faith requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, if NRCS observes a possible compliance deficiency while providing on-site technical assistance, NRCS will provide to the responsible person, not later than 45 days after observing the possible violation, information regarding actions needed to comply with the plan and this subtitle. NRCS will provide this information in lieu of reporting the observation as a violation, if the responsible person attempts to correct the deficiencies as soon as practicable, as determined by NRCS, after receiving the information, but not later than one year after receiving the information. If a person does not take the required corrective actions, the person may be determined to be ineligible for the crop year during which the compliance deficiencies occurred, as well as any subsequent crop year.

(iv) A person who meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (a)(5)(ii) of this section will, in lieu of the loss of all benefits specified under ยง 12.4(d) and (e) for such crop year, be subject to a reduction in benefits by an amount commensurate with the seriousness of the violation, as determined by FSA. The dollar amount of the reduction will be determined by FSA and may be based on the number of acres and the degree of erosion hazard for the area in violation, as determined by NRCS, or upon such other factors as FSA determines appropriate.

(v) Any person whose benefits are reduced in a crop year under paragraph (a)(5) of this section may be eligible for all of the benefits specified under ยง 12.4(d) and (e) for any subsequent crop year if, prior to the beginning of the subsequent crop year, NRCS determines that such person is actively applying a conservation plan according to the schedule specified in the plan on all highly erodible land planted to an agricultural commodity or designated as conservation use.
