
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VI - Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter F - Support Activities
##### PART 654 - OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
###### Subpart B - Federal Financially-Assisted Projects
####### ยง 654.15 Operation and maintenance.

Sponsor(s) are to operate and maintain completed project measures in:

(a) Compliance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and ordinances.

(b) Compliance with any applicable conditions set forth in the instruments by which the landrights were acquired for installing, operating, and maintaining the project measures.

(c) A manner that will not significantly degrade the environment and will permit project measures to serve the purpose for which they were installed as set forth in the watershed or RC&D measure plan.

(d) Compliance with the time frames and O&M work items established in the plan of O&M and inspection reports.

(e) Accordance with agreements with NRCS on admission charges and user fees for public recreation and/or fish and wildlife facility. Admission or user fees shall be charged only as necessary to produce revenues required to amortize the sponsor(s)' share of installation costs and to provide adequate O&M for that portion of the project measures pertaining to public recreation and/or fish and wildlife facility. Sponsor(s)' admission or user fee charges require prior NRCS approval throughout the life of the O&M agreement.

(f) Accordance with the schedule for withdrawal of water in water impounding structures as specified in the watershed or RC&D measure plan or other legal documents.

(g) A manner consistent with the project objectives.
