
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Agricultural Conservation Program
##### PART 707 - PAYMENTS DUE PERSONS WHO HAVE DIED, DISAPPEARED, OR HAVE BEEN DECLARED INCOMPETENT
###### ยง 707.5 Incompetency.

(a) Where any person who would otherwise be eligible to receive a payment is adjudged incompetent by a court of competent jurisdiction before the payment is received, payment may be released in accordance with this section so long as, and only if, a timely and binding program application has been filed by the person involved while capable or by someone legally authorized to file an application for the person involved. Timeliness is determined under the relevant program regulations. In all cases, the payment application must have been timely under the relevant program regulations and all program conditions for payment must have been met by or on behalf of the person involved. However, the payment will not be made unless, in addition, a separate release application is filed in accordance with ยง 707.7. If these conditions are met, payment may be released without regard to the claims of creditors other than the United States, to the guardian or committee legally appointed for the person involved. In case no guardian or committee had been appointed, payment, if for not more than $1,000, may be released without regard to claims of creditors other than the United States, to one of the following in the following order for the benefit of the person who was the subject of the adjudication:

(1) The spouse.

(2) An adult son, daughter, or grandchild.

(3) The mother or father.

(4) An adult brother or sister.

(5) Such person as may be authorized under State law to receive payment for the person (see standard procedure prescribed for the respective region).

(b) In case payment is more than $1,000, payment may be released only to such person as may be authorized under State law to receive payment for the incompetent, so long as all conditions for other payments specified in paragraph (a) of this section and elsewhere in the applicable regulations have been met. Those requirements include the filing of a proper and timely and legally authorized program application by or for the person adjudged incompetent. The release of funds under this paragraph will be made without regard to claims of creditors other than the United States unless the agency determines otherwise.
