
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Agricultural Conservation Program
##### PART 707 - PAYMENTS DUE PERSONS WHO HAVE DIED, DISAPPEARED, OR HAVE BEEN DECLARED INCOMPETENT
###### ยง 707.4 Disappearance.

(a) Where any person who would otherwise be eligible to receive a payment disappears before the payment is received, payment may be released in accordance with this section so long as, and only if, a timely program application has been filed by that person before the disappearance or filed timely before or after the disappearance by someone legally authorized to act for the person involved. Timeliness will be determined under the relevant program regulations. All program conditions for payment under the relevant program regulations must have been met for the person involved to be considered otherwise eligible for the payment. However, the payment will not be made unless, in addition, a separate release application is filed in accordance with ยง 707.7. If these conditions are met, payment may be released without regard to the claims of creditors other than the United States, in accordance with the following order of precedence:

(1) The conservator or liquidator of his estate, if one be duly appointed.

(2) The spouse.

(3) An adult son or daughter or grandchild for the benefit of his estate.

(4) The mother or father for the benefit of his estate.

(5) An adult brother or sister for the benefit of his estate.

(6) Such person as may be authorized under State law to receive payment for the benefit of his estate.

(b) A person shall be deemed to have disappeared if (1) he has been missing for a period of more than 3 months, (2) a diligent search has failed to reveal his whereabouts, and (3) such person has not communicated during such period with other persons who would be expected to have heard from him. Evidence of such disappearance must be presented to the county committee in the form of a statement executed by the person making the application for payment, setting forth the above facts, and must be substantiated by a statement from a disinterested person who was well acquainted with the person who has disappeared.
