
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Farm Marketing Quotas, Acreage Allotments, and Production Adjustment
##### PART 718 - PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MULTIPLE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart B - Determination of Acreage and Compliance
####### ยง 718.104 Late-filed and revised acreage reports.

(a) Late-filed acreage reports may be accepted after the final reporting date through the crop's immediately subsequent crop year's final reporting date and processed by FSA if both of the following apply:

(1) The crop or identifiable crop residue remains in the field, permitting FSA to verify and determine the acreage and

(2) The crop acreage and common land unit for which the reported crop acreage report is being filed has not already been determined by FSA.

(b) Acreage reports submitted later than the date specified in paragraph (a) of this section will not be processed by FSA and will not be used for program purposes.

(c) The person or legal entity filing a report late must pay the cost of a farm inspection and measurement unless FSA determines that failure to report in a timely manner was beyond the producer's control. The cost of the inspection and measurement is equal to the amount FSA would charge for measurement service; however, FSA's determination of acreage as a result of the inspection and measurement is not considered a paid for measurement service under ยง 718.101. The acreage measured will be entered as determined acres.

(d) When an acceptable late-filed acreage report is filed in accordance with this section, the reported crop acreage will be entered for the amount that was actually reported to FSA before FSA determined acres, and the determined crop acreage will be entered as it was determined and established by FSA.

(e) Revised acreage reports may be filed to change the acreage reported if:

(1) The acreage has not already been determined by FSA; and

(2) Actual crop or residue is present in the field.

(f) Revised reports will be filed and accepted:

(1) At any time for all crops if the crop or residue still exists in the field for inspection to verify the existence and use made of the crop, the lack of the crop, or a disaster condition affecting the crop; and

(2) If the producer was in compliance with all other program requirements at the reporting date.
