
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Farm Marketing Quotas, Acreage Allotments, and Production Adjustment
##### PART 718 - PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MULTIPLE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - Reconstitution of Farms, Allotments, Quotas, and Base Acres
####### ยง 718.202 Determining the land constituting a farm.

(a) In determining the constitution of a farm, consideration shall be given to provisions such as ownership and operation. For purposes of this part, the following rules shall be applicable to determining what land is to be included in a farm.

(b) A minor shall be considered to be the same owner or operator as the parent, court-appointed guardian, or other person responsible for the minor child, unless the parent or guardian has no interest in the minor's farm or production from the farm, and the minor:

(1) Is a producer on a farm;

(2) Maintains a separate household from the parent or guardian;

(3) Personally carries out the farming activities; and

(4) Maintains a separate accounting for the farming operation.

(c) A minor shall not be considered to be the same owner or operator as the parent or court-appointed guardian if the minor's interest in the farming operation results from being the beneficiary of an irrevocable trust and ownership of the property is vested in the trust or the minor.

(d) A life estate tenant shall be considered to be the owner of the property for their life.

(e) A trust shall be considered to be an owner with the beneficiary of the trust; except a trust can be considered a separate owner or operator from the beneficiary, if the trust:

(1) Has a separate and distinct interest in the land or crop involved;

(2) Exercises separate responsibility for the separate and distinct interest; and

(3) Maintains funds and accounts separate from that of any other individual or entity for the interest.

(f) The county committee shall require specific proof of ownership.

(g) Land owned by different persons of an immediate family living in the same household and operated as a single farming unit shall be considered as being under the same ownership in determining a farm.

(h) All land operated as a single unit and owned and operated by a parent corporation and subsidiary corporations of which the parent corporation owns more than 50 percent of the value of the outstanding stock, or where the parent is owned and operated by subsidiary corporations, shall be constituted as one farm.
