
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 756 - ORIENTAL FRUIT FLY PROGRAM
###### ยง 756.2 Administration.

(a) The OFF Program will be administered under the general supervision of the Administrator, FSA, and the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA. The OFF Program is carried out by FSA State committees and FSA county committees with instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator.

(b) FSA State committees and FSA county committees, and representatives and their employees, do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations in this part, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) The FSA State committee will take any required action not taken by the FSA county committee. The FSA State committee will also:

(1) Correct or require correction of an action taken by an FSA county committee that is not in compliance with this part; or

(2) Require an FSA county committee to not take an action or implement a decision that is not under the regulations of this part.

(d) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, or a designee, may determine any question arising under these programs, or reverse or modify a determination made by an FSA State committee or FSA county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize FSA State committees and FSA county committees to waive or modify non-statutory deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the OFF Program.

(f) A representative of FSA may execute applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by FSA. Any document not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by FSA, will be null and void.

(g) Items of general applicability to program participants, including, but not limited to, application periods, application deadlines, internal operating guidelines issued to State and county offices, prices, and payment factors established by the OFF Program, are not subject to appeal.
