
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 756 - ORIENTAL FRUIT FLY PROGRAM
###### ยง 756.7 Time and method of application.

(a) An application for OFF Program payment under this part must be submitted in person, by mail, email, or facsimile to the FSA county office serving as the farm's administrative county office by the close of business 60 calendar days after the signup start date announced by FSA. A National Special Program (SP) Notice will be issued providing OFF program details including signup start date and program requirements.

(b) An application will include only the producer's share of revenue for the crops negatively affected by the Oriental fruit fly quarantine for the applicable calendar years.

(c) Once signed by a producer, the application for payment is considered to contain information and certifications of and pertaining to the producer regardless of who entered the information on the application.

(d) The producer applying for the OFF Program under this part certifies the accuracy and truthfulness of the information provided in the application as well as any documentation filed with or in support of the application.

(1) All information is subject to verification or spot check by FSA at any time, either before or after payment is issued. Refusal to allow FSA or any agency of the Department of Agriculture to verify any information provided will result in the participant's forfeiting eligibility for the OFF Program. FSA may at any time, including before, during, or after processing and paying an application, require the producer to submit any additional information necessary to implement or determine any eligibility provision of this part. Furnishing required information is voluntary; however, without it, FSA is under no obligation to act on the application or approve payment.

(2) Providing a false certification will result in ineligibility and can also be punishable by imprisonment, fines, and other penalties.

(e) The application submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section is not considered valid and complete for issuance of payment under this part unless FSA determines all the applicable eligibility provisions have been satisfied and the participant has submitted all required documentation by the application deadline date announced by FSA.

(f) Applicants must submit all eligibility forms as listed on the FSA-438 Oriental Fruit Fly Program (OFF) Application within 60 calendar days from the date of submitting the application if not already on file with FSA.
