
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 756 - ORIENTAL FRUIT FLY PROGRAM
###### ยง 756.6 Eligible and ineligible causes of revenue loss.

(a) To be eligible for payments under this part the producer must have suffered a loss of revenue due to the Oriental fruit fly quarantine of one or more of the following types:

(1) Revenue loss on crop(s) planted or prevented from being planted within the Oriental Fruit Fly quarantine area during the OFF quarantine period. Crops that suffered a revenue loss due to prevented planting must have a prior history of being planted or be able to provide verifiable or reliable documentation demonstrating legitimate intent to plant the crop during the OFF quarantine period;

(2) Pre or post-harvest treatment costs;

(3) Transportation costs to a post-harvest treatment facility;

(4) Crop quality loss;

(5) Crop spoilage;

(6) Crop drop; or

(7) Reduced post-harvest shelf life.

(b) An ineligible cause of revenue loss under this part will apply to the following:

(1) Losses determined by FSA to be the result of poor management decisions or poor farming practices, such as using non-optimal chemical application, over-tilling, monoculture (growing of same crop year after year), allowing soil erosion, nonoptimal planting time, or poor quality seed selection.

(2) Losses due to conditions or events occurring outside of the applicable growing season for the crop.

(3) Losses due to failure of a power supply or lack of irrigation.

(4) Losses to crops not intended for harvest.

(5) Losses to home gardens for personal use and not intended to market.

(6) Losses to non-fruit bearing ornamental nursery.

(7) Losses caused by theft.

(8) Losses caused by disease or pest infestation other than the Oriental fruit fly.

(9) Losses to purchased crops.
