
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 756 - ORIENTAL FRUIT FLY PROGRAM
###### ยง 756.10 Miscellaneous provisions.

(a) Producers who are approved for OFF Program payment will not be required to purchase future NAP or crop insurance for those crops affected by the quarantine as is often required by other disaster programs, because the Oriental fruit fly quarantine was not an eligible covered loss by NAP, and RMA does not offer quarantine as an endorsement in Florida.

(b) All persons with a financial interest in a legal entity receiving payments under this part are jointly and severally liable for any refund, including related charges, that is determined to be due to FSA for any reason.

(c) In the event that any application under this part resulted from erroneous information or a miscalculation, the payment will be recalculated and any excess refunded to FSA with interest to be calculated from the date of disbursement.

(d) Any payment to any participant under this part will be made without regard to questions of title under State law, and without regard to any claim or lien against the commodity, or proceeds in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government. The regulations governing offsets and withholding in part 3 of this title apply to payments under this part.

(e) Any participant entitled to any payment may assign any payment(s) in accordance with regulations governing the assignment of payment in part 3 of this title.

(f) The regulations in part 11 of this title and part 780 of this chapter apply to determinations under this part.
