
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 756 - ORIENTAL FRUIT FLY PROGRAM
###### ยง 756.16 Maintenance and inspection of records.

(a) Producers randomly selected for compliance spot checks by FSA must, in accordance with program notice instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator, provide adequate reports of revenue as applicable. The producer must report documentary evidence of crop revenue to FSA together with any supporting documentation to verify information entered on the application. Verifiable documentation is preferred. If verifiable documentation is not available, FSA will accept reliable documentation, if determined to be acceptable by the FSA county committee.

(b) If supporting documentation is not presented to the county FSA office requesting the information within 30 calendar days of the request, producers will be determined ineligible for OFF Program benefits.

(c) The producer must maintain any existing books, records, and accounts supporting any information furnished in an approved OFF Program application for 3 years following the end of the year during which the application for payment was filed.

(d) The producer must permit authorized representatives of the Department of Agriculture and the General Accounting Office, during regular business hours, to inspect, examine, and make copies of such books, records, and accounts.
