
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 12 - HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND CONSERVATION AND WETLAND CONSERVATION
#### Subpart B - Highly Erodible Land Conservation
##### § 12.21 Identification of highly erodible lands criteria.
###### Basis for identification as highly erodible.

(a)Soil map units and an erodibility index will be used as the basis for identifying highly erodible land. The erodibility index for a soil is determined by dividing the potential average annual rate of erosion for each soil by its predetermined soil loss tolerance (T) value. The T value represents the maximum annual rate of soil erosion that could occur without causing a decline in long-term productivity. The equation for measuring erosion is described below.

(1) The potential average annual rate of sheet and rill erosion is estimated by multiplying the following factors of the Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE):

(i) Rainfall and runoff (R);

(ii) The degree to which the soil resists water erosion (K); and

(iii) The function (LS), which includes the effects of slope length (L) and steepness (S).

(2) The potential average annual rate of wind erosion is estimated by multiplying the following factors of the Wind Erosion Equation (WEQ): Climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture (C) and the degree to which soil resists wind erosion (I).

(3) The USLE is explained in the U.S. Department of Agriculture Handbook 537, "Predicting Rainfall Erosion Losses." The WEQ is explained in the paper by Woodruff, N.P., and F. H. Siddaway, 1965, "A Wind Erosion Equation," Soil Science Society of America Proceedings, Vol. 29. No. 5, pages 602-608. Values for all the factors used in these equations are contained in the NRCS field office technical guide and the references which are a part of the guide. The Universal Soil Loss Equation, the Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation, and the Wind Erosion Equation and the rules under which NRCS uses the equations are published at §§ 610.11 through 610.15 of this title.
