
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Dairy Indemnity Payment Program
####### Payments to Dairy Farmers for Milk
######## § 760.11 Indemnity payments for bred and open heifers.

(a) Bred (young dairy female in gestation) and open (young dairy female not in gestation) heifers that contain elevated levels of chemical residues as the result of the same loss may be eligible for indemnification through DIPP. For affected bred and open heifers participating affected farmers may receive indemnification if the farmer's dairy cows were determined to be likely not marketable for three months or longer according to § 760.10(a) and the Deputy Administrator determines the bred and open heifers to be eligible under paragraph (b) of this section. Except as provided in this section or otherwise stated in this subpart, the provisions in this subpart for cow indemnity apply equally to bred and open heifers, for example the removal requirements in § 760.10(b).

(b) The county committee will make the recommendation to the Deputy Administrator to determine if eligible bred and open heifers that have been affected by the same loss will likely be not marketable for 3 months or longer from the date the affected farmer submits an application for cow indemnification per § 760.13 because of elevated levels of chemical residues that will pass through milk once lactating. Affected farmers must provide the information specified in § 760.12(a) and (b) for the county committee to make a recommendation of eligibility to the Deputy Administrator. The Deputy Administrator will take into consideration the recommendation of the county committee in making its eligibility determination.

(c) The amount of the cow indemnity for bred and open heifers will be based on the national average fair market value of the non-adult heifers. DIPP bred and open heifer indemnification will be based on the 100 percent value of the Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP) rates as applicable for the calendar year of milk indemnification established for non-adult dairy, by weight range, per head. For example, for an affected farmer with 40 bred or open heifers at different weight ranges: 10 bred heifers at 800 pounds or more multiplied by $986.13 ($9861.30), 10 bred or open heifers at 400 to 799 pounds multiplied by $650.00 ($6500.00), 10 open heifers at 250 to 399 pounds multiplied by $325.00 ($3250.00), and 10 open heifers 250 pounds or less multiplied by $57.65 ($576.50) = $20,187.80 payment.
