
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Dairy Indemnity Payment Program
####### Payments to Dairy Farmers for Milk
######## § 760.10 Indemnity payments for cows.

(a) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (DAFP) will determine eligibility for DIPP indemnification based on if the cows of the affected farmer are likely to be not marketable for 3 months or longer [from the date the affected farmer submits an application for cow indemnification per § 760.13]. The Deputy Administrator will review the following factors in making that determination:

(1) Milk testing results;

(2) Non marketability of affected cows through commercial marketing facilities;

(3) Type and source of chemical residues impacting the milk and animal tissues; and

(4) Projected duration for chemical residue reduction including the actions taken by the affected farmer to reduce the chemical residues to marketable levels since the affected cows were discovered.

(b) See § 760.11 for indemnity payment eligibility for bred and open heifers.

(c) Affected farmers applying for indemnification of cows, including heifers, must develop a removal plan both to permanently remove the affected cows by depopulating the cows.

(1) The removal plan for affected cows for which an affected farmer applies for indemnification under DIPP must be approved by the applicable public agency where the cows are located and must be in accordance with any applicable Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and public agency depopulation and animal disposal requirements and guidelines, including contaminant disposal requirements, in the State where the affected cows are located.

(2) The approved removal plan must be submitted with the application for indemnification.

(d) The amount of an indemnity payment for cows to an affected farmer who is determined by the Deputy Administrator to be eligible for indemnification and by the county committee to be in compliance with all the terms and conditions of this subpart will be based on the national average fair market value of the cows. DIPP cow indemnification will be based on the 100 percent value of the Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP) rates as applicable for the calendar year for milk indemnification established for dairy cows, per head. For example, for a 100-cow farm: 100 cows multiplied by $1,300 (2021 LIP rate based on 100 percent value of average cow) = $130,000 payment.

(e) For any cow indemnification payment under this section or § 760.11, the affected farmer has the option to receive 50 percent of calculated payment in advance after application approval with the remaining fifty percent paid after the affected cows have been depopulated and removed. Otherwise, the affected farmer may choose to receive 100 percent of payment after cows have been depopulated and removed. Documented records of depopulation and removal of affected cows must be provided to FSA to the satisfaction of the county committee, before the final payment will be made.

(f) Upon written request from an affected farmer on a form authorized by the Deputy Administrator, the Deputy Administrator may approve, at the Deputy Administrator's discretion, indemnification of additional affected cows as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The affected cows were depopulated or died above normal mortality rates for cows between approval of the affected farmer's application for the first month of milk indemnity and public agency approval of the affected farmer's removal plan for cow indemnification. Normal mortality rates established annually by the FSA State committee for their state for the following cow and heifer weight groups will be used:

(i) Dairy, nonadult less than 400 pounds;

(ii) Dairy, nonadult 400 pounds or more; and

(iii) Dairy, adult cow.

(2) This request may include both cows that were included in applications for milk indemnity and heifers that were affected from the same loss.

(3) An affected farmer making such a request must submit the information specified in § 760.12(c).

(g) Affected cows that are marketed as cull or for breeding are not eligible for indemnification.
