
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Dairy Indemnity Payment Program
####### Payments to Dairy Farmers for Milk
######## ยง 760.6 Information to be furnished.

The affected farmer shall furnish to the county committee complete and accurate information sufficient to enable the county committee or the Deputy Administrator to make the determinations required in this subpart. Such information shall include, but is not limited to:

(a) A copy of the notice from, or other evidence of action by, the public agency which resulted in the removal of the affected farmer's whole milk from the commercial market.

(b) The specific name of the violating substance causing the removal of his whole milk from the commercial market, if not included in the notice or other evidence of action furnished under paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The quantity and butterfat test of whole milk produced and marketed during the base period. This information must be a certified statement from the affected farmer's milk handler or any other evidence the county committee accepts as an accurate record of milk production and butterfat tests during the base period.

(d) The average number of cows milked during the base period and during each pay period in the application.

(e) If the affected farmer markets his whole milk through a milk handler, a statement from the milk handler showing, for each pay period in the application period, the average price per hundred-weight of whole milk similar in quality to that marketed by the affected farmer during the base period used to determine his normal marketings. If the milk handler has information as to the transportation, administrative, and other costs of marketing which are normally incurred by producers who market through the milk handler but which the affected farmer did not incur because of removal of his whole milk from the market, the average price stated by the milk handler shall be the average gross price paid producers less any such costs. If the milk handler does not have such information, the affected farmer shall furnish a statement setting forth such costs, if any.

(f) The amount of proceeds, if any, received by the affected farmer from the marketing of whole milk produced during the application period.

(g) The amount of any payments not subject to refund made to the affected farmer by the milk handler with respect to the whole milk produced during the application period and remove from the commercial market.

(h) To the extent that such information is available to the affected farmer, the name of any pesticide, chemical, or toxic substance used on the farm within 24 months prior to the application period, the use made of the pesticide, chemical, or toxic substance, the approximate date of such use, and the name of the manufacturer and the registration number, if any, on the label on the container of the pesticide, chemical, or toxic substance.

(i) To the extent possible, the source of the pesticide, chemical, or toxic substance that caused the contamination of the whole milk, the results of any laboratory tests on the feed supply, and the monthly milk testing results that detail the chemical residue levels.

(j) Such other information as the county committee may request to enable the county committee or the Deputy Administrator to make the determinations required in this subpart.
