
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart B - General Provisions for Supplemental Agricultural Disaster Assistance Programs
####### ยง 760.102 Administration of ELAP, LFP, LIP, SURE, and TAP.

(a) The programs in subparts C through H of this part will be administered under the general supervision and direction of the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA), and the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA (who is referred to as the "Deputy Administrator" in this part).

(b) FSA representatives do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part as amended or supplemented, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) The State FSA committee will take any action required by the regulations of this part that the county FSA committee has not taken. The State FSA committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require a county FSA committee to correct, any action taken by such county FSA committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part or

(2) Require a county FSA committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.

(d) No provision or delegation to a State or county FSA committee will preclude the Administrator, the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, or a designee or other such person, from determining any question arising under the programs of this part, or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county FSA committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs may authorize State and county FSA committees to waive or modify non-statutory deadlines, or other program requirements of this part in cases where lateness or failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect operation of the programs in this part. Participants have no right to seek an exception under this provision. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to consider cases or circumstances or decision not to exercise this discretionary authority under this provision will not be considered an adverse decision and is not appealable.
