
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart B - General Provisions for Supplemental Agricultural Disaster Assistance Programs
####### ยง 760.108 Payment limitation.

(a) For 2008, no person, as defined and determined under the provisions in part 1400 of this title in effect for 2008 may receive more than:

(1) $100,000 total for the 2008 program year under ELAP, LFP, LIP, and SURE combined or

(2) $100,000 for the 2008 program year under TAP.

(b) For 2009 and subsequent program years, no person or legal entity, excluding a joint venture or general partnership, as determined by the rules in part 1400 of this title may receive, directly or indirectly, more than:

(1) $100,000 per program year total under ELAP, LFP, LIP, and SURE combined; or

(2) $100,000 per program year under TAP.

(c) The Deputy Administrator may take such actions as needed, whether or not specifically provided for, to avoid a duplication of benefits under the multiple programs provided for in this part, or duplication of benefits received in other programs, and may impose such cross-program payment limitations as may be consistent with the intent of this part.

(1) FSA will review ELAP payments after the funding factor as specified in ยง 760.208 is determined to be 100 percent. FSA will ensure that total ELAP payments provided to a participant in a year, together with any amount provided to the same participant for the same loss as a result of any Federal crop insurance program, the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program, or any other Federal disaster program, plus the value of the commodity that was not lost, is not more than 95 percent of the value of the commodity in the absence of the loss, as estimated by FSA.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) In applying the limitation on average adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2008, an individual or entity is ineligible for payment under ELAP, LFP, LIP, SURE, and TAP if the individual's or entity's average adjusted gross income (AGI) exceeds $2.5 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005 under the provisions in part 1400 of this title in effect for 2008.

(e) For 2009 through 2011, the average AGI limitation provisions in part 1400 of this title relating to limits on payments for persons or legal entities, excluding joint ventures and general partnerships, with certain levels of average adjusted gross income (AGI) will apply under this subpart and will apply to each applicant for ELAP, LFP, LIP, SURE, and TAP. Specifically, for 2009 through 2011, a person or legal entity with an average adjusted gross nonfarm income, as defined in ยง 1404.3 of this title, that exceeds $500,000 will not be eligible to receive benefits under this part.

(f) The direct attribution provisions in part 1400 of this title apply to ELAP, LFP, LIP, SURE, and TAP for 2009 and subsequent years. Under those rules, any payment to any legal entity will also be considered for payment limitation purposes to be a payment to persons or legal entities with an interest in the legal entity or in a sub-entity. If any such interested person or legal entity is over the payment limitation because of direct payment or their indirect interests or a combination thereof, then the payment to the actual payee will be reduced commensurate with the amount of the interest of the interested person in the payee. Likewise, by the same method, if anyone with a direct or indirect interest in a legal entity or sub-entity of a payee entity exceeds the AGI levels that would allow a participant to directly receive a payment under this part, then the payment to the actual payee will be reduced commensurately with that interest. For all purposes under this section, unless otherwise specified in part 1400 of this title, the AGI figure that will be relevant for a person or legal entity will be an average AGI for the three taxable years that precede the most immediately preceding complete taxable year, as determined by CCC.
