
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart G - Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program
####### § 760.631 SURE guarantee calculation.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the SURE guarantee for a farm is the sum obtained by adding the dollar amounts calculated in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.

(1) For each insurable crop on the farm except for value loss crops, 115 percent of the product obtained by multiplying together:

(i) The price election. If a price election was not made or a participant is eligible as specified in §§ 760.105, 760.106, or 760.107, then the percentage of price will be 55 percent of the NAP established price;

(ii) The payment acres determined according to § 760.632;

(iii) The SURE yield as calculated according to § 760.638; and

(iv) The coverage level elected by the participant. If a coverage level was not elected or a participant is eligible as specified in § 760.105, § 760.106, or § 760.107, a coverage level of 50 percent will be used in the calculation.

(2) For each noninsurable crop on a farm except for value loss crops, 120 percent of the product obtained by multiplying:

(i) 100 percent of the NAP established price for the crop;

(ii) The payment acres determined according to § 760.632;

(iii) The SURE yield calculated according to § 760.638; and

(iv) 50 percent.

(3) The guarantee for value loss crops as calculated according to § 760.634.

(4) In the case of an insurable crop for which crop insurance provides for an adjustment in the guarantee liability, or indemnity, such as in the case of prevented planting, that adjustment will be used in determining the guarantee for the insurable crop.

(5) In the case of a noninsurable crop for which NAP provides for an adjustment in the level of assistance, such as in the case of unharvested crops, that adjustment will be used for determining the guarantee for the noninsurable crop.

(b) Those participants who are eligible according to § 760.105, § 760.106, or § 760.107 who do not have crop insurance or NAP coverage will have their SURE guarantee calculated based on catastrophic risk protection or NAP coverage available for those crops.

(c) FSA will not include in the SURE guarantee the value of any crop that has a de minimis exception, according to § 760.613.

(d) For crops where coverage may exist under both crop insurance and NAP, such as for pasture, rangeland, and forage, adjustments to the guarantee will be the product obtained by multiplying the county expected yield for that crop times:

(1) 115 percent;

(2) 100 percent of the NAP established price;

(3) The payment acres determined according to § 760.632;

(4) The SURE yield calculated according to § 760.638; and

(5) The coverage level elected by the participant.

(e) Participants who do not have a SURE yield as specified in § 760.638 will have a yield determined for them by the Deputy Administrator.

(f) The SURE guarantee may not be greater than 90 percent of the sum of the expected revenue for each of the crops on a farm, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
