
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart G - Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program
####### § 760.634 SURE guarantee for value loss crops.

(a) The SURE guarantee for value loss crops will be the sum of the amounts calculated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, except as otherwise specified.

(1) For each insurable crop on the farm, 115 percent of the product obtained by multiplying:

(i) The value of inventory immediately prior to disaster, and

(ii) The coverage level elected by the participant. If a coverage level was not elected or a participant is eligible as specified in §§ 760.106 or 760.107, a coverage level of 27.5 percent will be used in the calculation.

(2) For each noninsurable crop on the farm, 120 percent of the product obtained by multiplying:

(i) The value of inventory immediately prior to a disaster, and

(ii) 50 percent.

(b) Aquaculture participants who received assistance under the Aquaculture Grant Program (Pub. L. 111-5) will not be eligible for SURE assistance on those species for which a grant benefit was received under the Aquaculture Grant Program for feed losses associated with that species.

(c) In the case of an insurable value loss crop for which crop insurance provides for an adjustment in the guarantee, liability, or indemnity, such as in the case of inventory exceeding peak inventory value, the adjustment will be used in determining the SURE guarantee for the insurable crop.

(d) In the case of a noninsurable value loss crop for which NAP provides for an adjustment in the level of assistance, such as in the case of unharvested field grown inventory, the adjustment will be used in determining the SURE guarantee for the noninsurable crop.
