
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart G - Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program
####### § 760.635 Total farm revenue.

(a) For the purpose of SURE payment calculation, total farm revenue will equal the sum obtained by adding the amounts calculated in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(12) of this section.

(1) The estimated actual value for each crop produced on a farm, except for value loss crops, which equals the product obtained by multiplying:

(i) The actual production of the payment acres for each crop on a farm for purposes of determining losses under FCIA or NAP; and

(ii) NAMP, as calculated for the marketing year as specified in § 760.640 and as adjusted if required as specified in § 760.641.

(2) The estimated actual value for each value loss crop produced on a farm that equals the value of inventory immediately after disaster.

(3) 15 percent of the amount of any direct payments made to the participant under part 1412 of this title.

(4) The total amount of any counter-cyclical and average crop revenue election payments made to the participant under part 1412 of this title.

(5) The total amount of any loan deficiency payments, marketing loan gains, and marketing certificate gains made to the participant under parts 1421 and 1434 of this title.

(6) The amount of payments for prevented planting.

(7) The amount of crop insurance indemnities.

(8) The amount of NAP payments received.

(9) The value of any guaranteed payments made to a participant in lieu of production pursuant to an agreement or contract, if the crop is included in the SURE guarantee.

(10) Salvage value for any crops salvaged.

(11) The value of any other disaster assistance payments provided by the Federal Government for the same loss for which the eligible participant applied for SURE.

(12) For crops for which the eligible participant received a waiver under the provisions of § 760.105(c) or obtained relief according to § 760.106, the value determined by FSA based on what the participant would have received, irrespective of any other provision, if NAP or crop insurance coverage had been obtained.

(b) Sale of plant parts or by-products, such as straw, will not be counted as farm revenue.

(c) For value loss crops:

(1) Other inventory on hand or marketed at some time other than immediately prior to and immediately after the disaster event are irrelevant for revenue purposes and will not be counted as revenue for SURE.

(2) Revenue will not be adjusted for market loss.

(3) Quality losses will not be considered in determining revenue.

(4) In no case will market price declines in value loss crops, due to any cause, be considered in the calculation of payments for those crops.
