
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart G - Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program
####### ยง 760.638 Determination of SURE yield.

(a) Except for value loss crops as specified in ยง 760.634, a SURE yield will be determined for each crop, type, and intended use on a farm, using the higher of the participant's weighted:

(1) Adjusted actual production history yield as determined in paragraph (b) of this section; or

(2) Counter-cyclical yield as determined in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) The adjusted actual production history yield, as defined in ยง 760.602, will be weighted by the applicable crop year total planted and prevented planted acres, by crop, type, and intended use for each county. RMA data will be used for calculating the SURE yield for insured crops.

(c) The counter-cyclical yield for a crop on a SURE farm will be weighted in such manner as FSA deems fit taking into account a desire for a consistent system and FSA's ability to make timely yield determinations.

(d) Participants who do not purchase crop insurance or NAP coverage, but who are otherwise eligible for payment, will have a SURE yield determined by the FSA county committee as follows:

(1) A weighted yield, based on planted and prevented planted acres, the location county, crop type, and intended use, will be determined at 65 percent of the county expected yield for each crop.

(2) The SURE yield will be the higher of the yield calculated using the method in paragraph (d)(1) of this section or 65 percent of the weighted counter-cyclical yield as determined in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) For those participants with crop insurance but without an adjusted actual production history yield, a SURE yield will be determined by the applicable FSA county committee. This paragraph will apply in the case where the insurance policy does not require an actual production history yield, or where a participant has no production history.
