
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart I - 2005-2007 Crop Disaster Program
####### § 760.807 Miscellaneous provisions.

(a) A person is not eligible to receive disaster assistance under this part if it is determined by FSA that the person has:

(1) Adopted any scheme or other device that tends to defeat the purpose of this part;

(2) Made any fraudulent representation;

(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination;

(4) Is ineligible under § 1400.5 of this title; or

(5) Does not have entitlement to an ownership share of the crop.

(i) Growers growing eligible crops under contract for crop owners are not eligible unless the grower can be determined to have a share of the crop.

(ii) Any verbal or written contract that precludes the grower from having an ownership share renders the grower ineligible for benefits under this part.

(b) A person ineligible under § 1437.15(c) of this title for any year is likewise ineligible for benefits under this part for that year or years.

(c) A person ineligible under § 400.458 of this title for any year is likewise ineligible for benefits under this part for that year or years.

(d) All persons with a financial interest in the operation receiving benefits under this part are jointly and severally liable for any refund, including related charges, which is determined to be due FSA for any reason.

(e) In the event that any request for assistance or payment under this part resulted from erroneous information or a miscalculation, the assistance or payment will be recalculated and any excess refunded to FSA with interest to be calculated from the date of the disbursement to the producer.

(f) The liability of anyone for any penalty or sanction under or in connection with this part, or for any refund to FSA or related charge is in addition to any other liability of such person under any civil or criminal fraud statute or any other provision of law including, but not limited to: 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 371, 641, 651, 1001, and 1014; 15 U.S.C. 714; and 31 U.S.C. 3729.

(g) The regulations in parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to determinations under this part.

(h) Any payment to any person will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the crop, or its proceeds.

(i) For the purposes of the effect of lien on eligibility for Federal programs (28 U.S.C. 3201(e)), FSA waives the restriction on receipt of funds or benefits under this program but only as to beneficiaries who, as a condition of such waiver, agree to apply the benefits received under this part to reduce the amount of the judgment lien.

(j) Under this program, participants are either eligible or ineligible. Participants in general, do not render performance or need to comply. They either suffered eligible losses or they did not. Accordingly, the provisions of § 718.304 of this chapter do not apply to this part.
