
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart I - 2005-2007 Crop Disaster Program
####### ยง 760.804 Time and method of application.

(a) The 2005, 2006, 2007 Crop Disaster Program application must be submitted on a completed FSA-840, or such other form designated for such application purpose by FSA, in the FSA county office in the participant's control county office before the close of business on a date that will be announced by the Deputy Administrator.

(b) Once signed by a participant, the application for benefits is considered to contain information and certifications of and pertaining to the participant regardless of who entered the information on the application.

(c) The participant requesting benefits under this program certifies the accuracy and truthfulness of the information provided in the application as well as any documentation filed with or in support of the application. All information is subject to verification by FSA. For example, as specified in ยง 760.818(f), the participant may be required to provide documentation to substantiate and validate quality standards and marketing contract prices. Refusal to allow FSA or any agency of the Department of Agriculture to verify any information provided will result in the participant's forfeiting eligibility under this program. Furnishing required information is voluntary; however without it, FSA is under no obligation to act on the application or approve benefits. Providing a false certification to the government is punishable by imprisonment, fines, and other penalties.

(d) FSA may require the participant to submit any additional information it deems necessary to implement or determine any eligibility provision of this part. For example, as specified in ยง 760.818(f), the participant may be required to provide documentation to substantiate and validate quality standards and marketing contract prices.

(e) The application submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section is not considered valid and complete for issuance of payment under this part unless FSA determines all the applicable eligibility provisions have been satisfied and the participant has submitted all of following completed forms:

(1) If Item 16 on FSA-840 is answered "YES," FSA-840M, Crop Disaster Program for Multiple Crop-Same Acreage Certification;

(2) CCC-502, Farm Operating Plan for Payment Eligibility;

(3) CCC-526, Payment Eligibility Average Adjusted Gross Income Certification;

(4) AD-1026, Highly Erodible Land Conservation (HELC) and Wetland Conservation Certification; and

(5) FSA-578, Report of Acreage.

(f) Application approval and payment by FSA does not relieve a participant from having to submit any form required, but not filed, according to paragraph (e) of this section.
