
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart I - 2005-2007 Crop Disaster Program
####### ยง 760.811 Rates and yields; calculating payments.

(a)(1) Payments made under this part to a participant for a loss of quantity on a unit with respect to yield-based crops are determined by multiplying the average market price times 42 percent, times the loss of production which exceeds 35 percent of the expected production, as determined by FSA, of the unit.

(2) Payments made under this part to a participant for a quantity loss on a unit with respect to value-based crops are determined by multiplying the payment rate established for the crop by FSA times the loss of value that exceeds 35 percent of the expected production value, as determined by FSA, of the unit.

(3) As determined by FSA, additional quality loss payments may be made using a 25 percent quality loss threshold. The quality loss threshold is determined according to ยง 760.817.

(b) Payment rates for the 2005, 2006, or 2007 year crop losses will be 42 percent of the average market price.

(c) Separate payment rates and yields for the same crop may be established by the State committee as authorized by the Deputy Administrator, when there is supporting data from NASS or other sources approved by FSA that show there is a significant difference in yield or value based on a distinct and separate end use of the crop. Despite potential differences in yield or values, separate rates or yields will not be established for crops with different cultural practices, such as those grown organically or hydroponically.

(d) Production from all end uses of a multi-use crop or all secondary uses for multiple market crops will be calculated separately and summarized together.

(e) Each eligible participant's share of a disaster payment will be based on the participant's ownership entitlement share of the crop or crop proceeds, or, if no crop was produced, the share of the crop the participant would have received if the crop had been produced. If the participant has no ownership share of the crop, the participant is ineligible for assistance under this part.

(f) When calculating a payment for a unit loss:

(1) An unharvested payment factor will be applied to crop acreage planted but not harvested;

(2) A prevented planting factor will be applied to any prevented planted acreage eligible for payment; and

(3) Unharvested payment factors may be adjusted if costs normally associated with growing the crop are not incurred.
