
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart J - 2005-2007 Livestock Indemnity Program
####### ยง 760.909 Payment calculation.

(a) Under this subpart separate payment rates are established for eligible livestock owners and eligible livestock contract growers in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Payments for the 2005-2007 LIP are calculated by multiplying the national payment rate for each livestock category, as determined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, by the number of eligible livestock in each category, as provided in ยง 760.906. Adjustments will be applied in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(b) The 2005-2007 LIP national payment rate for eligible livestock owners is based on 26 percent of the average fair market value of the livestock.

(c) The 2005-2007 LIP national payment rate for eligible livestock contract growers is based on 26 percent of the average income loss sustained by the contract grower with respect to the dead livestock.

(d) The 2005 payment calculated under 2005-2007 LIP for eligible livestock owners will be reduced by the amount the participant received under:

(1) The Livestock Indemnity Program (subpart E of this part);

(2) The Aquaculture Grant Program (subpart G of this part); and

(3) The Livestock Indemnity Program II (part 1416, subpart C of this title).

(e) The 2005 payment calculated under 2005-2007 LIP for eligible livestock contract growers will be reduced by the amount the participant received:

(1) Under the Livestock Indemnity Program (subpart E of this part);

(2) For the loss of income from the dead livestock from the party who contracted with the producer to grow the livestock; and

(3) Under the Livestock Indemnity Program II (part 1416, subpart C of this title).
