
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart K - General Provisions for 2005-2007 Livestock Compensation and Catfish Grant Programs
####### ยง 760.1003 Limitations on payments and other benefits.

(a) A participant may receive benefits for eligible livestock feed losses, including additional feed costs, for only one of the 2005, 2006, or 2007 calendar years under 2005-2007 LCP, subpart L of this part, or under the CGP of subpart M of this part.

(b) As specified in ยง 760.1106(c), the payment under the 2005-2007 LCP may not exceed the smaller of the calculated payment in ยง 760.1106(a) or the value of the producer's eligible feed loss, increased feed costs, or forage or grazing loss.

(c) A person may receive no more than $80,000 under 2005-2007 LCP, subpart L of this part. In applying the $80,000 per person payment limitation, regardless of whether the 2005, 2006, or 2007 calendar year benefits are at issue or sought, the most restrictive "person" determination for the participant in the years 2005, 2006, and 2007, will be used to limit benefits. The rules and definitions of part 1400 of this title apply in construing who is a qualified separate "person" for purposes of this limit. All payment eligibility requirements of part 1400 as they apply to any other payments, also apply to payments under subpart L of this part.

(d) For payments under 2005-2007 CGP, a farming operation may receive no more than $80,000, except for general partnerships and joint ventures, in which case assistance will not exceed $80,000 times the number of eligible members of the general partnership or joint venture. This limit must be enforced by the state government administering the grant program.

(e) The provisions of part 1400, subpart G, of this title apply to these programs. That is the rules that limit the eligibility for benefits of those individuals or entities with an adjusted gross income greater than a certain limit will be applied in the same manner to payments under subparts L and M of this part.

(f) As a condition to receive benefits under subparts L and M of this part, a participant must have been in compliance with the provisions of parts 12 and 718 of this title for the calendar year for which benefits are being requested and must not otherwise be precluded from receiving benefits under any law.

(g) An individual or entity determined to be a foreign person under part 1400 of this title is not eligible to receive benefits under subparts L and M of this part.

(h) In addition to limitations provided in subparts L and M of this part, participants cannot receive duplicate benefits under subparts L and M of this part for the same loss or any similar loss under:

(1) An agricultural disaster assistance provision contained in the announcement of the Secretary on January 26, 2006, or August 29, 2006;

(2) The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Pub. L. 109-234; 120 Stat. 418); or

(3) Any other disaster assistance program.
