
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart L - 2005-2007 Livestock Compensation Program
####### ยง 760.1106 Payment calculation.

(a) Preliminary, unadjusted LCP payments are calculated for a producer by multiplying the national payment rate for each livestock category, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, by the number of eligible livestock for the producer in each category. The national payment rate represents the cost of the amount of corn needed to maintain the specific livestock for 30 days, as determined by FSA. As provided in subpart K of this part, a producer may receive benefits for only one of the three program years, 2005, 2006, or 2007. The producer must indicate which year has been chosen. Payments are available only with respect to disaster-related fees losses in the period from January 2, 2005 through February 27, 2007, in eligible counties for losses during the times specified for the disaster periods as specified in ยง 760.1001(b).

(b) The preliminary LCP payment calculated in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) For 2005 LCP provided for under this subpart will be reduced by the amount the participant received for the specific livestock under the Feed Indemnity Program in accordance with subpart D of this part and LCP for the 2005 hurricanes under subpart B of part 1416 of this title; and

(2) For 2006 LCP under this subpart will be reduced by the amount the participant received for the same or similar loss under the Livestock Assistance Grant Program in accordance with subpart H of this part.

(c) Subject to such other limitations as may apply, including those in paragraph (b) of this section, the payment under the 2005-2007 LCP may not exceed for the relevant year chosen by the producer the smaller of either the:

(1) Payment calculated in paragraph (a) of this section for that year; or

(2) Value of the producer's eligible feed loss, increased feed costs, or forage or grazing loss as determined by FSA for that year.

(d) The actual payment to the producer will be the amount provided for in paragraph (c) of this section subject to the adjustments and limits provided for in this section or in this part.
