
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart N - Dairy Economic Loss Assistance Payment Program
####### ยง 760.1301 Administration.

(a) This subpart establishes, subject to the availability of funds, the terms and conditions under which the Dairy Economic Loss Assistance Payments (DELAP) program as authorized by section 10104 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-171) will be administered with respect to funds appropriated under Section 748 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 (2010 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, Pub. L. 111-80).

(b) The DELAP program will be administered under the general supervision of the Administrator, FSA, and the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA (who is referred to as the "Deputy Administrator" in this part), and will be carried out by FSA's Price Support Division (PSD) and Kansas City Management Office (KCMO).

(c) FSA representatives do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) The State committee will take any action required by the provisions of this subpart that has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:

(1) Correct or require the county committee to correct any action taken by the county committee that is not in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(2) Require a county committee to not take an action or implement a decision that is not in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(e) No provision or delegation of this subpart to PSD, KCMO, a State committee, or a county committee will preclude the Administrator, FSA, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by PSD, KCMO, a State committee, or a county committee.

(f) The Deputy Administrator may waive or modify non-statutory deadlines and other program requirements of this part in cases where lateness or failure to meet other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the program. Participants have no right to seek an exception under this provision. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to consider cases or circumstances or decision not to exercise the discretionary authority of this provision will not be considered an adverse decision and is not appealable.
