
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart N - Dairy Economic Loss Assistance Payment Program
####### ยง 760.1304 Eligibility.

(a) Payment under DELAP will only be made to producers, but the dairy "operation" must first qualify its production within limits provided for in this subpart in order to have the individuals or entities that qualify as "producers" receive payment subject to whatever additional limits (such as the adjusted gross income provisions of these regulations) apply. As needed the agency may construe the terms of this regulation in any manner needed to facilitate and expedite payments using existing data and records from other assistance programs. Further, those parties (State and local governments and their political subdivisions and related agencies) excluded from the MILC program will not be eligible for DELAP payments notwithstanding any other provision of these regulation. That said, to be eligible to receive payments under this subpart, a dairy producer in the United States must:

(1) Have produced milk in the United States and commercially marketed the milk produced any time during February 2009 through July 2009;

(2) Be a producer, as defined in ยง 760.1302;

(3) Provide FSA with proof of milk production commercially marketed by all dairy producers in the dairy operation during February 2009 through July 2009; and

(4) Submit an accurate and complete request for benefits as specified in ยง 760.1303, if production data is not available in the FSA county office.

(b) To be eligible to receive a payment, each producer in an eligible dairy operation must meet the average adjusted gross income eligibility requirements of 7 CFR part 1400. No person or entity will be eligible to receive any payment or direct or indirect benefit under this subpart if their annual average adjusted nonfarm income is over $500,000 as determined under 7 CFR part 1400. In the case of indirect benefits, direct benefits to other parties will be reduced accordingly. This will mean that all of the attribution rules of part 1400 will apply. For example if Individual A is over the limit and owns 100 percent of Corporation C which had a 20 percent interest in Corporation B which had a 50 percent interest in milk producer Corporation A, the AGI of Individual A would result in a 10 percent (100 percent times 20 percent times 50 percent) loss in benefits to Corporation A. For DELAP, the relevant period for the annual average adjusted nonfarm income is 2005 through 2007.

(1) Individual dairy producers in a dairy operation that is an entity are only eligible for a payment based on their share of the dairy operation.

(2) No payment will be made to any other producer based on the share of any dairy producer who exceeds the income limit or who, because of the attribution rules, has their payment reduced.
