
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart N - Dairy Economic Loss Assistance Payment Program
####### ยง 760.1305 Proof of production.

(a) Dairy producers requesting benefits must, as required by this subpart, provide adequate proof of the dairy operation's eligible production during the months of February through July 2009, if those records are not already available at the FSA county office. The dairy operation must also provide proof that the eligible production was also commercially marketed during the same period.

(b) To be eligible for payment, dairy producers marketing milk during February through July 2009 must provide any required supporting documents to assist FSA in verifying production. Supporting documentation may be provided by either the dairy producer or by the dairy operation for each of its producers. Examples of supporting documentation may include, but are not limited to: Milk marketing payment stubs, tank records, milk handler records, daily milk marketings, copies of any payments received as compensation from other sources, or any other documents available to confirm the production and production history of the dairy operation. Dairy operations and producers may also be required to allow FSA to examine the herd of cattle as production evidence. If supporting documentation requested is not presented to FSA, the request for benefits will be denied.
