
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart O - Agricultural Disaster Indemnity Programs
####### ยง 760.1506 Availability of funds and timing of payments.

(a) For 2017 WHIP:

(1) An initial payment will be issued for 50 percent of each 2017 WHIP payment calculated according to this subpart, as determined by the Secretary. The remainder of the calculated 2017 WHIP payment will be paid to a participant only after the application period has ended and any crop insurance indemnity or NAP payment the participant is entitled to receive for the crop has been calculated and reported to FSA, and then only if there are funds available for such payment as discussed in this subpart.

(2) In the event that, within the limits of the funding made available by the Secretary, approval of eligible applications would result in payments in excess of the amount available, FSA will prorate payments by a national factor to reduce the payments to an amount that is less than available funds as determined by the Secretary. FSA will prorate the payments in such manner as it determines equitable.

(3) Applications and claims that are unpaid or prorated for any reason will not be carried forward for payment under other funds for later years or otherwise, but will be considered, as to any unpaid amount, void and nonpayable.

(b) For WHIP:

(1) For the 2018 crop year, the calculated WHIP+ payment will be paid at 100 percent.

(2) For the 2019 and 2020 crop years, an initial payment will be issued for 50 percent of each WHIP+ payment calculated according to this subpart, as determined by the Secretary. Up to the remaining 50 percent of the calculated WHIP+ payment will be paid only to the extent that there are funds available for such payment as discussed in this subpart.

(3) In the event that, within the limits of the funding made available by the Secretary, approval of eligible applications would result in payments in excess of the amount available, FSA will prorate 2019 and 2020 payments by a national factor to reduce the payments to the remaining available funds, as determined by the Secretary. FSA will prorate the payments accordingly.

(4) Applications and claims that are unpaid or prorated for aforementioned reasons of fund availability will not be carried forward for payment and will be considered, as to any unpaid amount, void and non-payable.
