
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart O - Agricultural Disaster Indemnity Programs
####### ยง 760.1510 Application for payment.

(a) An application for payment under this subpart must be submitted to the FSA county office serving as the farm's administrative county office by the close of business on October 30, 2020. Producers must submit:

(1) For 2017 WHIP, a completed form FSA-890, Wildfires and Hurricanes Indemnity Program Application; or

(2) For WHIP+, a completed form FSA-894, Wildfires and Hurricanes Indemnity Program + Application.

(b) Once signed by a producer, the application for payment is considered to contain information and certifications of and pertaining to the producer regardless of who entered the information on the application.

(c) The producer applying for payment under this subpart certifies the accuracy and truthfulness of the information provided in the application as well as any documentation filed with or in support of the application. All information is subject to verification or spot check by FSA at any time, either before or after payment is issued. Refusal to allow FSA or any agency of the Department of Agriculture to verify any information provided will result in the participant's forfeiting eligibility for payment under this subpart. FSA may at any time, including before, during, or after processing and paying an application, require the producer to submit any additional information necessary to implement or determine any eligibility provision of this subpart. Furnishing required information is voluntary; however, without it FSA is under no obligation to act on the application or approve payment. Providing a false certification will result in ineligibility and can also be punishable by imprisonment, fines, and other penalties.

(d) The application submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section is not considered valid and complete for issuance of payment under this subpart unless FSA determines all the applicable eligibility provisions have been satisfied and the participant has submitted all of following completed forms and information:

(1) Report of all acreage for the crop for the unit for which payments under this subpart are requested, on FSA-578, Report of Acreage, or in another format acceptable to FSA;

(2) AD-1026, Highly Erodible Land Conservation (HELC) and Wetland Conservation Certification; and

(3) For 2017 WHIP:

(i) FSA-891, Crop Insurance and/or NAP Coverage Agreement;

(ii) FSA-892, Request for an Exception to the WHIP Payment Limitation of $125,000, if the applicant is requesting 2017 WHIP payments in excess of the $125,000 payment limitation; and

(iii) FSA-893, 2018 Citrus Actual Production History and Approved Yield Record, Florida Only, for participants applying for payment for a citrus crop located in Florida;

(4) For WHIP+:

(i) FSA-895, Crop Insurance and/or NAP Coverage Agreement;

(ii) FSA-896, Request for an Exception to the WHIP Payment Limitation of $125,000, if 75 percent or more of an applicant's average AGI is attributable to activities related to farming, ranching, or forestry and the applicant wants to be eligible to receive WHIP+ payments of more than $125,000, up to the $250,000 payment limitation per crop year, with an overall WHIP+ limit of $500,000; and

(iii) FSA-897, Actual Production History and Approved Yield Record (WHIP+ Select Crops Only), for applicants requesting payments for select crops.

(e) Application approval and payment by FSA does not relieve a participant from having to submit any form required, but not filed, according to paragraph (d) of this section.
