
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart O - Agricultural Disaster Indemnity Programs
####### ยง 760.1514 Eligible acres.

(a) Eligible acreage will be calculated using the lesser of the reported or determined acres shown to have been planted or prevented from being planted to a crop.

(b) Initial crop acreage will be the payment acreage for under this subpart, unless the provisions for subsequent crops in this section are met. Subsequently planted or prevented planted acre acreage is considered acreage for under this subpart only if the provisions of this section are met. All plantings of an annual or biennial crop are considered the same as a planting of an initial crop in tropical regions as defined in part 1437, subpart F, of this title.

(c) In cases where there is double cropped acreage, each crop may be included in the acreage only if the specific crops are approved by the FSA State committee as eligible double cropping practices in accordance with procedures approved by the Deputy Administrator.

(d) Except for insured crops, participants with double cropped acreage not meeting the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section may have such acreage included in the acreage on more than one crop only if the participant submits verifiable records establishing a history of carrying out a successful double cropping practice on the specific crops for which payment is requested.

(e) Participants having multiple plantings may receive payments for each planting included only if the planting meets the requirements of part 1437 of this title and all other provisions of this subpart are satisfied.

(f) Losses due to prevented planting are eligible under this subpart only if the loss was due to a qualifying disaster event. Provisions of parts 718 and 1437 of this title specifying what is considered prevented planting and how it must be documented and reported apply. Crops located in tropical regions are not eligible for prevented planting.

(g) Subject to the provisions of this subpart, the FSA county committee will:

(1) Use the most accurate data available when determining planted and prevented planted acres; and

(2) Disregard acreage of a crop produced on land that is not eligible for crop insurance or NAP.

(h) If a farm has a crop that has both FSA and RMA acreage for insured crops, eligible acres will be based on the lesser of RMA or FSA acres.

(i) For 2017 WHIP, prevented planting acres will be considered eligible acres if they meet all requirements of this subpart.

(j) For WHIP+:

(1) 2018 and 2020 crop year prevented planting acres and 2019 crop year uninsured and NAP-covered prevented planting acres will be eligible acres if they meet all requirements of this subpart; and

(2) 2019 crop year insured prevented planting acres will not be eligible acres.
