
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart O - Agricultural Disaster Indemnity Programs
####### ยง 760.1512 Production losses; participant responsibility.

(a) For any record submitted along with the certification of production, the record must be either a verifiable or reliable record that substantiates the certification to the satisfaction of the FSA county committee. If the eligible crop was sold or otherwise disposed of through commercial channels, a record of that disposition must be provided to FSA with the certification.

(1) Acceptable production records include:

(i) RMA or NAP records, if accurate and complete;

(ii) Commercial receipts;

(iii) Settlement sheets;

(iv) Warehouse ledger sheets or load summaries; or

(v) Appraisal information from a loss adjuster acceptable to FSA.

(2) If the eligible crop was farm-stored, sold, fed to livestock, or disposed of by means other than verifiable commercial channels, acceptable records for these purposes include:

(i) Truck scale tickets;

(ii) Appraisal information from a loss adjuster acceptable to FSA;

(iii) Contemporaneous reliable diaries; or

(iv) Other documentary evidence, such as contemporaneous reliable measurements.

(3) Determinations of reliability with respect to this paragraph will take into account, as appropriate, the ability for FSA to review and verify or compare the evidence against the similarity of the evidence or reports or data received by FSA for the crop or similar crops. Other factors deemed relevant may also be taken into account.

(b) If RMA or NAP records are not available, or if the FSA county committee determines the RMA or NAP records as reported by the insured or covered participant appear to be questionable or incomplete, or if the FSA county committee makes inquiry, the participant is responsible for:

(1) Retaining and providing, at time of application and whenever required by FSA, the best available verifiable or reliable or other production records for the crop;

(2) Summarizing all the production evidence;

(3) Accounting for the total amount of unit production for the crop, whether or not records reflect this production;

(4) Providing the information in a manner that can be easily understood by the FSA county committee; and

(5) Providing supporting documentation if the FSA county committee has reason to question the disaster event or that all production has been taken into account.

(c) FSA may verify the production evidence submitted with records on file at the warehouse, gin, or other entity that received or may have received the reported production.

(d) Participants must provide all records for any production of a crop that is grown with an arrangement, agreement, or contract for guaranteed payment.

(e) Under WHIP+, participants requesting payments for losses to adulterated wine grapes must submit verifiable sales tickets that document that the reduced price received was due to adulteration due to a qualifying disaster event. For adulterated wine grapes that have not been sold, participants must submit verifiable records obtained by testing or analysis to establish that the wine grapes were adulterated due to a qualifying disaster event and the price they would receive due to adulteration.
