
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart O - Agricultural Disaster Indemnity Programs
####### ยง 760.1513 Determination of production.

(a) The harvested production of eligible crop acreage harvested more than once in a crop year includes the total harvested production from all the harvests in the crop year.

(b) If a crop is appraised and subsequently harvested as the intended use, the actual harvested production must be taken into account to determine payments. FSA will analyze and determine whether a participant's evidence of actual production represents all that could or would have been harvested.

(c) For all crops eligible for loan deficiency payments or marketing assistance loans (see parts 1421 and 1434 of this title) with an intended use of grain but harvested as silage, ensilage, cabbage, hay, cracked, rolled, or crimped, production will be converted to a whole grain equivalent based on conversion factors as previously established by FSA.

(d) If a participant does not receive compensation based upon the quantity of the commodity delivered to a purchaser, but has an agreement or contract for guaranteed payment for production, the determination of the production will be the greater of the actual production or the guaranteed payment converted to production as determined by FSA.

(e) Production that is commingled between crop years, units, ineligible and eligible acres, or different practices before it was a matter of record or combination of record and cannot be separated by using records or other means acceptable to FSA will be prorated to each respective year, unit, type of acreage, or practice, respectively. Commingled production may be attributed to the applicable unit, if the participant made the unit production of a commodity a matter of record before commingling and does any of the following, as applicable:

(1) Provides copies of verifiable documents showing that production of the commodity was purchased, acquired, or otherwise obtained from beyond the unit;

(2) Had the production measured in a manner acceptable to the FSA county committee; or

(3) Had the current year's production appraised in a manner acceptable to the FSA county committee.

(f) The FSA county committee will assign production for the unit when the FSA county committee determines that:

(1) The participant has failed to provide adequate and acceptable production records;

(2) The loss to the crop is because of a disaster condition not covered by this subpart, or circumstances other than natural disaster, and there has not otherwise been an accounting of this ineligible cause of loss;

(3) The participant carries out a practice, such as multiple cropping, that generally results in lower yields than the established historic yields;

(5) A crop was late-planted;

(6) Unharvested acreage was not timely appraised; or

(7) Other appropriate causes exist for such assignment as determined by the Deputy Administrator.

(g) The FSA county committee will establish a county disaster yield that reflects the amount of production producers would have produced considering the eligible disaster events in the county or area for the same crop. The county disaster yield for the county or area will be expressed as either a percent of loss or yield per acre. The county disaster yield will apply when:

(1) Unharvested acreage has not been appraised by FSA or a company reinsured by FCIC; or

(2) Acceptable production records for harvested acres are not available from any source.

(h) In no case will the production amount of any applicant be less than the producer's certified loss.

(i) Under WHIP+, production for eligible adulterated wine grapes will be adjusted for quality deficiencies due to a qualifying disaster event. Wine grapes are eligible for production adjustment only if adulteration occurred prior to harvest and as a result of a qualifying disaster event or as a result of a related condition (such as application of fire retardant). Losses due to all other causes of adulteration (such as addition of artificial flavoring or chemicals for economic purposes) are not eligible for WHIP+. Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if, due to a qualifying disaster event, it has a value of less than 75 percent of the average market price of undamaged grapes of the same or similar variety. The value per ton of the qualifying damaged production and the average market price of undamaged grapes will be determined on the earlier of the date the damaged production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit. Grape production that is eligible for quality adjustment will be reduced by:

(1) Dividing the value per ton of the damaged grapes by the value per ton for undamaged grapes; and

(2) Multiplying this result (not to exceed 1.000) by the number of tons of the eligible damaged grapes.
