
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart P - On-Farm Storage Loss Program
####### ยง 760.1600 Applicability.

(a) This subpart specifies the terms and conditions for the On-Farm Storage Loss Program. The On-Farm Storage Loss Program will provide payments to eligible producers who suffered uncompensated losses of harvested commodities stored in on farm structures as a result from hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, typhoons, volcanic activity, snowstorms, and wildfires that occurred in the 2018 and 2019 calendar years.

(b) The regulations in this subpart are applicable to crops of barley, small and large chickpeas, corn, grain sorghum, lentils, oats, dry peas, peanuts, rice, wheat, soybeans, oilseeds, hay and other crops designated by Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) stored in on-farm structures. These regulations specify the general provisions under which the On-Farm Storage Loss Program will be administered by CCC. In any case in which money must be refunded to CCC in connection with this part, interest will be due to run from the date of disbursement of the sum to be refunded. This provision will apply, unless waived by the Deputy Administrator, irrespective of any other rule.

(c) Eligible on-farm structures include all on-farm structures deemed acceptable by the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs.

(d) Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) and payment limitation provisions specified in part 760.1607 of this chapter apply to this subpart.
