
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart R - Quality Loss Adjustment Program
####### ยง 760.1801 Administration.

(a) The QLA Program is administered under the general supervision of the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA), and the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA. The QLA Program is carried out by FSA State and county committees with instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator.

(b) FSA State and county committees, and representatives and their employees, do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations in this subpart or instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator.

(c) The FSA State committee will take any action required by the regulations in this subpart that the FSA county committee has not taken. The FSA State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require an FSA county committee to correct, any action taken by the FSA county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations in this subpart; or

(2) Require an FSA county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this subpart.

(d) No delegation to an FSA State or county committee precludes the FSA Administrator or the Deputy Administrator from determining any question arising under this subpart or from reversing or modifying any determination made by an FSA State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator has the authority to:

(1) Permit State and county committees to waive or modify a non-statutory deadline specified in this subpart; and

(2) Delegate authority to FSA State or county committees to make determinations under ยง 760.1812(f) and (g).

(f) Items of general applicability to program participants, including, but not limited to, application periods, application deadlines, internal operating guidelines issued to FSA State and county offices, prices, and payment factors established under this subpart, are not subject to appeal in accordance with part 780 of this chapter.
