
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart R - Quality Loss Adjustment Program
####### ยง 760.1808 General provisions.

(a) Eligibility and payments under this subpart will be determined based on the county where the affected production was harvested.

(b) FSA county committees will make any necessary adjustments to the applicant's affected production and other information on the application form used to calculate a payment when the county committee determines:

(1) Additional documentation has been requested by FSA but has not been provided by the participant;

(2) The loss is due to an ineligible cause; or

(3) The participant has a contract providing a guaranteed payment for all or a portion of the crop.

(c) Unless otherwise specified, all eligibility provisions of part 1437 of this title also apply to tropical crops for eligibility under this subpart.

(d) FSA will use the most reliable data available at the time payments under this subpart are calculated. If additional data or information is provided or becomes available after a payment is issued, FSA will recalculate the payment amount and the producer must return any overpayment amount to FSA. In all cases, payments can only issue based on the payment formula for losses that affirmatively occurred.

(e) Production that is commingled between counties, crop years, or ineligible and eligible acres before it was a matter of record or combination of record and cannot be separated by using records or other means acceptable to FSA will be prorated to each respective year, county, or type of acreage, respectively.
