
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart R - Quality Loss Adjustment Program
####### ยง 760.1809 Payment and adjusted gross income limitation.

(a) A person or legal entity, other than a joint venture or general partnership, is eligible to receive, directly or indirectly, payments of not more than $125,000 for each of the 2018, 2019, and 2020 crop years under this subpart.

(b) Payments made to a joint operation, including a joint venture or general partnership, cannot exceed the amount determined by multiplying the maximum payment amount specified in paragraph (a) of this section by the number of persons and legal entities, other than joint operations, that comprise the ownership of the joint operation.

(c) The direct attribution provisions in ยง 1400.105 of this title apply to payments under this subpart.

(d) The notification of interest provisions in ยง 1400.107 of this title apply to payments under this subpart.

(e) The provisions for recognizing persons added to a farming operation for payment limitation purposes as described in ยง 1400.104 of this title apply to payments under this subpart.

(f) The $900,000 average AGI limitation provisions in part 1400 of this title relating to limits on payments for persons or legal entities, excluding joint ventures and general partnerships, apply to each applicant for the QLA Program unless at least 75 percent of the person or legal entity's average AGI is derived from farming, ranching, or forestry-related activities. A person's or legal entity's average AGI for each of the program years 2018, 2019 or 2020, is determined by using the average of the adjusted gross incomes for the 3 taxable years preceding the most immediately preceding taxable year. If the person's or legal entity's average AGI is below $900,000 or at least 75 percent of the person or legal entity's average AGI is derived from farming, ranching, or forestry-related activities, the person or legal entity, is eligible to receive payments under this subpart.
