
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart R - Quality Loss Adjustment Program
####### ยง 760.1810 Time and method of application.

(a) A completed FSA-898, Quality Loss Adjustment (QLA) Program Application, must be submitted in person, by mail, email, or facsimile to any FSA county office by the close of business on March 5, 2020.

(b) An application submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section is not considered valid and complete for issuance of payment under this subpart unless FSA determines all the applicable eligibility provisions have been satisfied and the producer has submitted all of following by March 19, 2020:

(1) Documentation required by ยง 760.1811;

(2) FSA-578, Report of Acreage, for all acreage for any crop for which payments under this subpart are requested;

(3) FSA-895, Crop Insurance and/or NAP Coverage Agreement; and

(4) For forage crops, FSA-899, Historical Nutritional Value Weighted Average Worksheet, if verifiable documentation of historical nutrient factors is available.

(c) In addition to the forms listed in paragraph (b) of this section, applicants must also submit all the following eligibility forms within 60 days from the date of signing the QLA Program application if not already on file with FSA:

(1) AD-1026, Highly Erodible Land Conservation (HELC) and Wetland Conservation Certification;

(2) CCC-902 Automated, Farm Operating Plan for Payment Eligibility 2009 and Subsequent Program Years;

(3) CCC-941 Average Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) Certification and Consent to Disclosure of Tax Information; and

(4) CCC-942 Certification of Income from Farming, Ranching and Forestry Operations, if applicable.

(d) Failure to submit all required forms by the applicable deadlines in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may result in no payment or a reduced payment.

(e) Application approval and payment by FSA does not relieve a participant from having to submit any form required, but not filed, according to this section.

(f) Once signed by a producer, the application is considered to contain information and certifications of and pertaining to the producer regardless of who entered the information on the application.

(g) The producer applying for payment under this subpart certifies the accuracy and truthfulness of the information provided in the application as well as any documentation filed with or in support of the application. All information is subject to verification or spot check by FSA at any time, either before or after payment is issued. Refusal to allow FSA or any agency of the USDA to verify any information provided will result in the participant's forfeiting eligibility for payment under this subpart. FSA may at any time, including before, during, or after processing and paying an application, require the producer to submit any additional information necessary to implement or determine any eligibility provision of this subpart. Furnishing information specified in this subpart is voluntary; however, FSA may choose not to act on the application or approve payment if the required information is not provided. Providing a false certification will result in ineligibility and can also be punishable by imprisonment, fines, and other penalties.
