
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Emergency Relief Program
####### ยง 760.1900 Applicability and administration.

(a) This subpart specifies the eligibility requirements and payment calculations for Phase 2 of the Emergency Relief Program (ERP). ERP provides payments to producers who suffered eligible crop losses due to qualifying disaster events, which include wildfires, hurricanes, floods, derechos, excessive heat, winter storms, freeze (including a polar vortex), smoke exposure, excessive moisture, qualifying drought, and related conditions occurring in calendar years 2020 and 2021.To be eligible for ERP Phase 2 payments, participants must comply with all provisions under this subpart.

(b) ERP is administered under the general supervision and direction of the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA).

(c) The FSA State committee will take any action required by this subpart that an FSA county committee has not taken. The FSA State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require an FSA county committee to correct, any action taken by such county FSA committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this subpart; or

(2) Require an FSA county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this subpart.

(d) No provision or delegation to an FSA State or county committee will preclude the FSA Administrator, the Deputy Administrator, or a designee or other such person, from determining any question arising under the programs of this subpart, or from reversing or modifying any determination made by an FSA State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator has the authority to permit State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines (except deadlines specified in a law) and other requirements or program provisions not specified in law, in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements or program provisions do not adversely affect operation of ERP.
