
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 761 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS; GENERAL PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 761.1 Introduction.
######## et seq.

(a) The Administrator delegates the responsibility to administer Farm Loan Programs of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921) to the Deputy Administrator for Farm Loan Programs subject to any limitations established in 7 CFR 2.16(a)(2) and 7 CFR 2.42.

(b) The Deputy Administrator:

(1) Delegates to each State Executive Director within the State Executive Director's jurisdiction the authority, and in the absence of the State Executive Director, the person acting in that position, to act for, on behalf of, and in the name of the United States of America or the Farm Service Agency to do and perform acts necessary in connection with making and guaranteeing loans, such as, but not limited to, making advances, servicing loans and other indebtedness, and obtaining, servicing, and enforcing or releasing security and other instruments related to the loan. For actions that do not result in a loss to the Farm Service Agency, a State Executive Director may redelegate authorities received under this paragraph to a Farm Loan Chief, Farm Loan Specialist, District Director, Farm Loan Manager, or Senior Farm Loan Officer, Farm Loan Officer, Loan Analyst, Loan Resolution Specialist, or Program Technician.

(2) May establish procedures for further redelegation or limitation of authority.

(c) This part and parts 762 through 767 of this subchapter describe the Agency's policies for its Farm Loan Programs. The objective of these programs is to provide progression lending and management assistance to eligible farmers to become owners or operators, or both, of family farms, to continue such operations when credit is not available elsewhere, or to return to normal farming operations after sustaining substantial losses as a result of a designated or declared disaster. The programs are designed to allow those who participate to transition to private commercial credit or other sources of credit in the shortest period of time practicable through the use of progression lending, including farm assessments, borrower training, market placement, and borrower graduation requirements. These regulations apply to loan applicants, borrowers, lenders, holders, Agency personnel, and other parties involved in making, guaranteeing, holding, servicing, or liquidating such loans.

(d) This part describes the Agency's general and administrative policies for its guaranteed and direct Farm Loan Programs. In general, this part addresses issues that affect both guaranteed and direct loan programs.

(e) Part 3 of this title and 31 CFR part 285 describe the policies and procedures the Agency will follow for non-centralized offset (including administrative offset) and referral to Treasury for centralized offset (TOP), Federal salary offset, Administrative Wage Garnishment, and collection through Treasury's private collection agencies (cross-servicing). Supplemental provisions for FLP purposes are described in part 761, subpart F of this title.

(f) Part 3 of this title and 31 CFR parts 900-904 describe the policies and procedures the Agency will follow for debt settlement authorities pursuant to the Federal Claims Collection Standards. Supplemental provisions for FLP purposes are described in part 761, subpart F of this title.

(g) Part 761, subpart F of this title describes the debt settlement policies and procedures for FLP debt pursuant to the Act.
