
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Emergency Relief Program
####### ยง 760.1910 Requirement to purchase crop insurance or NAP coverage.

(a) Producers must report all crops that suffered a revenue loss in whole or in part due to a qualifying disaster event on form FSA-522, Crop Insurance and/or NAP Coverage Agreement.

(b) All producers who receive ERP Phase 2 payments must file an accurate acreage report and purchase crop insurance or NAP coverage where crop insurance is not available, for the next 2 available crop years. For each crop reported according to paragraph (a) of this section, participants must obtain crop insurance or NAP, as may be applicable:

(1) At a coverage level equal to or greater than 60 percent for insurable crops; or

(2) At the catastrophic level or higher for NAP crops.

(c) Availability will be determined from the date a producer receives an ERP payment and may vary depending on the timing and availability of crop insurance or NAP for a producer's particular crops. The final crop year to purchase crop insurance or NAP coverage to meet the second year of coverage for this requirement is the 2026 crop year.

(d) In situations where crop insurance is unavailable for a crop, an ERP participant must obtain NAP coverage. Section 1001D of the Food Security Act of 1985 (1985 Farm Bill) provides that a person or entity with an AGI greater than $900,000 is not eligible to participate in NAP; however, producers with an AGI greater than $900,000 are eligible for ERP. To reconcile this restriction in the 1985 Farm Bill and the requirement to obtain NAP or crop insurance coverage, ERP participants may meet the purchase requirement by purchasing Whole-Farm Revenue Protection (WFRP) crop insurance coverage, if eligible, or they may pay the applicable NAP service fee despite their ineligibility for a NAP payment. In other words, the service fee must be paid even though no NAP payment may be made because the AGI of the person or entity exceeds the 1985 Farm Bill limitation.

(e) If both Federal crop insurance and NAP coverage are unavailable for a crop, the producer must obtain WFRP crop insurance coverage, if eligible.

(f) For all crops listed on form FSA-522, producers who have the crop or crop acreage in subsequent years and who fail to obtain the 2 years of crop insurance or NAP coverage required as required by this section, must refund the ERP Phase 2 payment with interest from the date of disbursement. Producers who do not plant a crop listed on form FSA-522 in a year for which this requirement applies are not subject to the crop insurance or NAP purchase requirement for that year.

(g) Producers who received an ERP Phase 1 payment for a crop are not required to obtain additional years of crop insurance or NAP coverage for that crop if they also receive an ERP Phase 2 payment for a loss associated with that crop.
