
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 760 - INDEMNITY PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart S - Emergency Relief Program
####### ยง 760.1908 Miscellaneous provisions.

(a) If an ERP Phase 2 payment resulted from erroneous information provided by a producer, or any person acting on their behalf, the payment will be recalculated and the producer must refund any excess payment with interest calculated from the date of the disbursement of the payment.

(b) If FSA determines that the producer intentionally misrepresented information provided on their application, the application will be disapproved and the producer must refund the full payment to FSA with interest from the date of disbursement.

(c) Any required refunds must be resolved in accordance with part 3 of this title.

(d) A producer, whether a person or legal entity, that either fails to timely provide all required documentation or fails to satisfy any eligibility requirement for ERP Phase 2, is not eligible to receive ERP Phase 2 payments, directly or indirectly. An ERP Phase 2 payment to an eligible legal entity applicant whose member(s) either fails to timely provide all required documentation or fails to satisfy any eligibility requirement for ERP Phase 2 will be reduced proportionate to that member's ownership interest in the legal entity.

(e) Any payment under this subpart will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the commodity or proceeds from the sale of the commodity. The regulations governing offsets in part 3 of this title apply to payments made under this subpart.

(f) For the purposes of the effect of a lien on eligibility for Federal programs (28 U.S.C. 3201(e)), USDA waives the restriction on receipt of funds under ERP Phase 2 but only as to beneficiaries who, as a condition of the waiver, agree to apply the ERP Phase 2 payments to reduce the amount of the judgment lien.

(g) In addition to any other Federal laws that apply to ERP Phase 2, the following laws apply: 15 U.S.C. 714; 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 371, and 1001.
