
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart A - Official Records
##### ยง 1.3 Requirements for making a records request.
###### Where and how to submit a request.

(a)(1) A requester may submit a request in writing and address the request to the designated component within the USDA that maintains the records requested. The Departmental FOIA Officer will maintain a list of contact information for component FOIA offices and make this list available on the USDA public FOIA website. Filing a FOIA request directly with the component that maintains the records will facilitate the processing of the request. If responsive records are likely to reside within more than one USDA component, the requester should submit the request to the USDA Departmental FOIA office.

(2) Alternatively, a requester may submit a request electronically via USDA's online web portal or via the National FOIA portal. USDA components also accept requests submitted to the email addresses of component FOIA offices as listed on the USDA public FOIA website.

(3) If a requester cannot determine where within the USDA to send a request, he or she should consult the USDA public FOIA website to determine where the records might be maintained. Alternatively, he or she may send the request to the Departmental FOIA Officer, who will route the request to the component(s) believed most likely to maintain the records requested.

(4) To facilitate the processing of a request, a requester should place the phrase "FOIA REQUEST" in capital letters on the front of their envelope, the cover sheet of their facsimile transmittal, or the subject line of their email.
