
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 761 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS; GENERAL PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 761.2 Abbreviations and definitions.
######## Beginning farmer

is an individual or entity who:

(1) Meets the loan eligibility requirements for a direct or guaranteed CL, FO, or OL, as applicable;

(2) Has not operated a farm for more than 10 years. This requirement applies to all members of an entity;

(3) Will materially and substantially participate in the operation of the farm:

(i) In the case of a loan made to an individual, individually or with the family members, material and substantial participation requires that the individual provide substantial day-to-day labor and management of the farm, consistent with the practices in the county or State where the farm is located.

(ii) In the case of a loan made to an entity, all members must materially and substantially participate in the operation of the farm. Material and substantial participation requires that the member provide some amount of the management, or labor and management necessary for day-to-day activities, such that if the individual did not provide these inputs, operation of the farm would be seriously impaired;

(4) Agrees to participate in any loan assessment and borrower training required by Agency regulations;

(5) Except for an OL applicant, does not own real farm property or who, directly or through interests in family farm entities owns real farm property, the aggregate acreage of which does not exceed 30 percent of the average farm acreage of the farms in the county where the property is located. If the farm is located in more than one county, the average farm acreage of the county where the applicant's residence is located will be used in the calculation. If the applicant's residence is not located on the farm or if the applicant is an entity, the average farm acreage of the county where the major portion of the farm is located will be used. The average county farm acreage will be determined from the most recent Census of Agriculture;

(6) Demonstrates that the available resources of the applicant and spouse (if any) are not sufficient to enable the applicant to enter or continue farming on a viable scale; and

(7) In the case of an entity:

(i) All the members are related by blood or marriage; and

(ii) All the members are beginning farmers.
