
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 761 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS; GENERAL PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 761.7 Appraisals.
######## Appraisal appeals.

(e)Challenges to an appraisal used by the Agency are limited as follows:

(1) When an applicant or borrower challenges a real estate appraisal used by the Agency for any loan making or loan servicing decision, except primary loan servicing decisions as specified in ยง 766.115 of this chapter, the issue for review is limited to whether the appraisal used by the Agency complies with USPAP. The applicant or borrower must submit a technical appraisal review prepared by a State Certified General Appraiser that will be used to determine whether the Agency's appraisal complies with USPAP. The applicant or borrower is responsible for obtaining and paying for the technical appraisal review.

(2) When an applicant or borrower challenges a chattel appraisal used by the Agency for any loan making or loan servicing decision, except for primary loan servicing decisions as specified in ยง 766.115 of this chapter, the issue for review is limited to whether the appraisal used by the Agency is consistent with present market values of similar items in the area. The applicant or borrower must submit an independent appraisal review that will be used to determine whether the appraisal is consistent with present market values of similar items in the area. The applicant or borrower is responsible for obtaining and paying for the independent appraisal.
