
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 761 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS; GENERAL PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 761.10 Planning and performing construction and other development.
######## Construction and repair standards.

(d)(1) The construction of a new building and the alteration or repair of an existing building must conform with industry-acceptable construction practices and standards.

(2) All improvements to a property must conform to applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations.

(3) The applicant or borrower is responsible for selecting a design standard that meets all applicable local and state laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations, including building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, water, and waste management.

(4) The Agency will require drawings, specifications, and estimates to fully describe the work as necessary to protect the Agency's financial interests. The drawings and specifications must identify any specific development standards being used. Such information must be sufficiently complete to avoid any misunderstanding as to the extent, kind, and quality of work to be performed.

(5) The Agency will require technical data, tests, or engineering evaluations to support the design of the development as necessary to protect its financial interests.

(6) The Agency will require the applicant or borrower to provide written certification that final drawings and specifications conform with the applicable development standard as necessary to protect its financial interests. Certification must be obtained from individuals or organizations trained and experienced in the compliance, interpretation, or enforcement of the applicable development standards, such as licensed architects, professional engineers, persons certified by a relevant national model code organization, authorized local building officials, or national code organizations.
