
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.106 Preferred and certified lender programs.
####### PLP criteria.

(c)The lender must meet the following requirements to obtain PLP status:

(1) Meet the CLP eligibility criteria under this section.

(2) Have a credit management system, satisfactory to the Agency, based on the following:

(i) The lender's written credit policies and underwriting standards;

(ii) Loan documentation requirements;

(iii) Exceptions to policies;

(iv) Analysis of new loan requests;

(v) Credit file management;

(vi) Loan funds and collateral management system;

(vii) Portfolio management;

(viii) Loan reviews;

(ix) Internal credit review process;

(x) Loan monitoring system; and

(xi) The board of director's responsibilities.

(3) Have made the minimum number of guaranteed OL, FO, CL, or SW loans established by the Agency and published periodically in aNotice.

(4) Have a lender loss rate not in excess of the rate of the maximum PLP loss rate established by the Agency and published periodically in aNotice. The Agency may waive the loss rate criteria for those lenders whose loss rate was substantially affected by a disaster as defined in ยง 761.2(b) and part 759 of this chapter.

(5) Show a consistent practice of submitting applications for guaranteed loans containing accurate information supporting a sound loan proposal.

(6) Show a consistent practice of processing Agency guaranteed loans without recurring major or minor deficiencies.

(7) Demonstrate a consistent, above average ability to service guaranteed loans based on the following:

(i) Borrower supervision and assistance;

(ii) Timely and effective servicing; and

(iii) Communication with the Agency.

(8) Designate a person or persons, either by name, title, or position within the organization, to process and service PLP loans for the Agency.
