
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.106 Preferred and certified lender programs.
####### Revocation of PLP or CLP status.

(g)(1) The Agency may revoke the lender's PLP or CLP status at any time during the 5 year term for cause.

(2) Any of the following instances constitute cause for revoking or not renewing PLP or CLP status:

(i) Violation of the terms of the lender's agreement;

(ii) Failure to maintain PLP or CLP eligibility criteria. The Agency may allow a PLP lender with a loss rate which exceeds the maximum PLP loss rate, to retain its PLP status for a two-year period, if:

(A) The lender documents in writing why the excessive loss rate is beyond their control;

(B) The lender provides a written plan that will reduce the loss rate to the PLP maximum rate within two years from the date of the plan, and

(C) The Agency determines that exceeding the maximum PLP loss rate standard was beyond the control of the lender. Examples include, but are not limited to, a freeze with only local impact, economic downturn in a local area, drop in local land values, industries moving into or out of an area, loss of access to a market, and biological or chemical damage.

(D) The Agency will revoke PLP status if the maximum PLP loss rate is not met at the end of the two-year period, unless a second two year extension is granted under this subsection.

(iii) Knowingly submitting false or misleading information to the Agency;

(iv) Basing a request on information known to be false;

(v) Deficiencies that indicate an inability to process or service Agency guaranteed farm loan programs loans in accordance with this subpart;

(vi) Failure to correct cited deficiencies in loan documents upon notification by the Agency;

(vii) Failure to submit status reports in a timely manner;

(viii) Failure to use forms, or follow credit management systems (for PLP lenders) accepted by the Agency; or

(ix) Failure to comply with the reimbursement requirements of ยง 762.144(c)(7) and (c)(8).

(3) A lender which has lost PLP or CLP status must be reconsidered for eligibility to continue as a Standard Eligible Lender (for former PLP and CLP lenders), or as a CLP lender (for former PLP lenders) in submitting loan guarantee requests. They may reapply for CLP or PLP status when the problem causing them to lose their status has been resolved.
