
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.110 Loan application.
####### Conflict of interest.

(i)(1) When a lender submits the application for a guaranteed loan, the lender will inform the Agency in writing of any relationship which may cause an actual or potential conflict of interest.

(2) Relationships include:

(i) The lender or its officers, directors, principal stockholders (except stockholders in a Farm Credit System institution that have stock requirements to obtain a loan), or other principal owners having a financial interest (other than lending relationships in the normal course of business) in the applicant or borrower.

(ii) The applicant or borrower, a relative of the applicant or borrower, anyone residing in the household of the applicant or borrower, any officer, director, stockholder or other owner of the applicant or borrower holds any stock or other evidence of ownership in the lender.

(iii) The applicant or borrower, a relative of the applicant or borrower, or anyone residing in the household of the applicant or borrower is an Agency employee.

(iv) The officers, directors, principal stockholders (except stockholders in a Farm Credit System institution that have stock requirements to obtain a loan), or other principal owners of the lender have substantial business dealings (other than in the normal course of business) with the applicant or borrower.

(v) The lender or its officers, directors, principal stockholders, or other principal owners have substantial business dealings with an Agency employee.

(3) The lender must furnish additional information to the Agency upon request.

(4) The Agency will not approve the application until the lender develops acceptable safeguards to control any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
