
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15 - NONDISCRIMINATION
#### Subpart A - Nondiscrimination in Federally-Assisted Programs of the Department of Agriculture - Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
##### ยง 15.10 Decisions and notices.
###### Post termination proceedings.

(g)(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibilty to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply therewith. An elementary or secondary school or school system which is unable to file an assurance of compliance with ยง 15.4 (a), (b), or (d) shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it complies with the requirements of a ยง 15.4(e) and is otherwise in compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.

(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the Secretary to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the Secretary determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he shall restore such eligibility.

(3) If the Secretary denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes the denial to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure set forth in subpart C of this part. The applicant or recipient will be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such a hearing, that it has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.
