
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.125 Financial feasibility.
####### Estimating production.

(b)Except for streamlined CL guarantees (see ยง 762.110(f)), the following requirements must be met:

(1) Standard eligible lenders must use the best sources of information available for estimating production in accordance with this subsection when developing cash flow budgets.

(2) Deviations from historical performance may be acceptable, if specific to changes in operation and adequately justified and acceptable to the Agency.

(3) For existing farmers, actual production for the past 3 years will be utilized.

(4) For those farmers without a proven history, a combination of any actual history and any other reliable source of information that are agreeable with the lender, the applicant, and the Agency will be used.

(5) When the production of a growing commodity can be estimated, it must be considered when projecting yields.

(6) When the applicant's production history has been so severely affected by a declared disaster that an accurate projection cannot be made, the following applies:

(i) County average yields are used for the disaster year if the applicant's disaster year yields are less than the county average yields. If county average yields are not available, State average yields are used. Adjustments can be made, provided there is factual evidence to demonstrate that the yield used in the farm plan is the most probable to be realized.

(ii) To calculate a historical yield, the crop year with the lowest actual or county average yield may be excluded, provided the applicant's yields were affected by disasters at least 2 of the previous 5 consecutive years.
