
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.126 Security requirements.
####### Lien position.

(e)All guaranteed loans will be secured by the best lien obtainable. Provided that:

(1) Any chattel-secured guaranteed loan must have a higher lien priority (including purchase money interest) than an unguaranteed loan secured by the same chattels and held by the same lender.

(2) Junior lien positions are acceptable only if the total amount of debt with liens on the security, including the debt in junior lien position, is less than or equal to 85 percent of the value of the security. Junior liens on crops or livestock products will not be relied upon for security unless the lender is involved in multiple guaranteed loans to the same borrower and also has the first lien on the collateral.

(3) When taking a junior lien, prior lien instruments will not contain future advance clauses (except for taxes, insurance, or other reasonable costs to protect security), or cancellation, summary forfeiture, or other clauses that jeopardize the Government's or the lender's interest or the borrower's ability to pay the guaranteed loan, unless any such undesirable provisions are limited, modified, waived or subordinated by the lienholder for the benefit of the Agency and the lender.

(f) Additional security, or any loan of $10,000 or less may be secured by the best lien obtainable on real estate without title clearance or legal services normally required, provided the lender believes from a search of the county records that the applicant can give a mortgage on the farm and provided that the lender would, in the normal course of business, waive the title search. This exception to title clearance will not apply when land is to be purchased.
