
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.142 Servicing related to collateral.
####### Partial releases.

(b)(1) A lender may release guaranteed loan security without FSA concurrence as follows:

(i) When the security item is being sold for market value and the proceeds will be applied to the loan in accordance with lien priorities. In the case of term loans, proceeds will be applied as extra payments and not as a regular installment on the loan.

(ii) The security item will be used as a trade-in or source of down payment funds for a like item that will be taken as security.

(iii) The security item has no present or prospective value.

(2) A partial release of security may be approved in writing by the Agency upon the lender's request when:

(i) Proceeds will be used to make improvements to real estate that increase the value of the security by an amount equal to or greater than the value of the security being released.

(ii) Security will be released outright with no consideration, but the total unpaid balance of the guaranteed loan is less than or equal to 75 percent of the value of the security for the loan after the release, excluding the value of growing crops or planned production, based on a current appraisal of the security.

(iii) Significant income generating property will not be released unless it is being replaced and business assets will not be released for use as a gift or any similar purpose.

(iv) Agency concurrence is provided in writing to the lender's written request. Standard eligible lenders and CLP lenders will submit the following to the Agency:

(A) A current balance sheet on the borrower; and

(B) A current appraisal of the security. Based on the level of risk and estimated equity involved, the Agency will determine what security needs to be appraised. Any required security appraisals must meet the requirements of ยง 762.127; and

(C) A description of the purpose of the release; and

(D) Any other information requested by the Agency to evaluate the proposed servicing action.

(3) The lender will provide the Agency copies of any agreements executed to carry out the servicing action.

(4) PLP lenders will request servicing approval in accordance with their agreement with the Agency at the time of PLP status certification.
