
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.141 Reporting requirements.

Lenders are responsible for providing the local Agency credit officer with all of the following information on the loan and the borrower:

(a) When the guaranteed loan becomes 30 days past due, and following the lender's meeting or attempts to meet with the borrower, all lenders will submit the appropriate Agency form showing guaranteed loan borrower default status. The form will be resubmitted every 60 days until the default is cured either through restructuring or liquidation.

(b) All lenders will submit the appropriate guaranteed loan status reports as of March 31 and September 30 of each year;

(c) CLP lenders also must provide the following:

(1) A written summary of the lender's annual analysis of the borrower's operation. This summary should describe the borrower's progress and prospects for the upcoming operating cycle. This annual analysis may be waived or postponed if the borrower is financially strong. The summary will include a description of the reasons an analysis was not necessary.

(2) For lines of credit, an annual certification stating that a cash flow projecting at least a feasible plan has been developed, that the borrower is in compliance with the provisions of the line of credit agreement, and that the previous year income and loan funds and security proceeds have been accounted for.

(d) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the standard eligible lender also will provide:

(1) Borrower's balance sheet, and income and expense statement for the previous year.

(2) For lines of credit, the cash flow for the borrower's operation that projects a feasible plan or better for the upcoming operating cycle. The standard eligible lender must receive approval from the Agency before advancing future years' funds.

(3) An annual farm visit report or collateral inspection.

(e) PLP lenders will submit additional reports as required in their lender's agreement.

(f) A lender receiving a final loss payment must complete and return an annual report on its collection activities for each unsatisfied account for 3 years following payment of the final loss claim.
