
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### § 762.142 Servicing related to collateral.
####### Transfer and assumption.

(d)Transfers and assumptions are subject to the following conditions:

(1) For standard eligible and CLP lenders, the servicing action must be approved by the Agency in writing.

(2) For standard eligible and CLP lenders, the transferee must apply for a loan in accordance with § 762.110, including a current appraisal, unless the lien position of the guaranteed loan will not change, and any other information requested by the Agency to evaluate the transfer and assumption.

(3) PLP lenders may process transfers and assumptions in accordance with their agreement with the Agency.

(4) Any required security appraisals must meet the requirements of § 762.127.

(5) The Agency will review, approve or reject the request in accordance with the time frames in § 762.130.

(6) The transferee must meet the eligibility requirements and loan limitations for the loan being transferred, all requirements relating to loan rates and terms, loan security, feasibility, and environmental and other laws applicable to a applicant under this part.

(7) The lender will use its own assumption agreements or conveyance instruments, providing they are legally sufficient to obligate the transferee for the total outstanding debt. The lender will provide the Agency copies of any agreements executed to carry out the servicing action.

(8) The Agency approves the transfer and assumption by executing a modification of the guarantee to designate the party that assumed the guaranteed debt, the amount of debt at the time of the assumption, including interest that is being capitalized, and any new loan terms, if applicable.

(9) The lender must give any holder notice of the transfer. If the rate and terms are changed, written concurrence from the holder is required.

(10) The Agency will agree to releasing the transferor or any guarantor from liability only if the requirements of § 762.146(c) are met.
