
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.142 Servicing related to collateral.
####### Subordinations.

(c)(1) The Agency may subordinate its security interest on a direct loan when a guaranteed loan is being made if the requirements of the regulations governing Agency direct loan subordinations are met and only in the following circumstances:

(i) To permit a guaranteed lender to advance funds and perfect a security interest in crops, feeder livestock, livestock offspring, or livestock products;

(ii) When the lender requesting the guarantee needs the subordination of the Agency's lien position to maintain its lien position when servicing or restructuring;

(iii) When the lender requesting the guarantee is refinancing the debt of another lender and the Agency's position on real estate security will not be adversely affected; or

(iv) To permit a line of credit to be advanced for annual operating expenses.

(2) The Agency may subordinate its basic security in a direct loan to permit guaranteed line of credit only when both of the following additional conditions are met:

(i) The total unpaid balance of the direct loans is less than or equal to 75 percent of the value of all of the security for the direct loans, excluding the value of growing crops or planned production, at the time of the subordination. The direct loan security value will be determined by an appraisal. The lender requesting the subordination and guarantee is responsible for providing the appraisal and may charge the applicant a reasonable appraisal fee.

(ii) The applicant cannot obtain sufficient credit through a conventional guaranteed loan without a subordination.

(3) The lender may not subordinate its interest in property which secures a guaranteed loan except as follows:

(i) The lender may subordinate its security interest in crops, feeder livestock, livestock offspring, or livestock products when no funds have been advanced from the guaranteed loan for their production, so a lender can make a loan for annual production expenses; or

(ii) The lender may, with written Agency approval, subordinate its interest in basic security in cases where the subordination is required to allow another lender to refinance an existing prior lien, no additional debt is being incurred, and the lender's security position will not be adversely affected by the subordination.

(iii) The Agency's national office may provide an exception to the subordination prohibition if such action is in the Agency's best interest. However, in no case can the loan made under the subordination include tax exempt financing.
