
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.145 Restructuring guaranteed loans.
####### Debt writedown.

(e)The following conditions apply to debt writedown:

(1) A lender may only write down a delinquent guaranteed loan or line of credit in an amount sufficient to permit the borrower to develop a feasible plan as defined in ยง 762.102(b).

(2) The lender will request other creditors to negotiate their debts before a writedown is considered.

(3) The borrower cannot develop a feasible plan after consideration is given to rescheduling and deferral under this section.

(4) The present value of the loan to be written down, based on the interest rate of the rescheduled loan, will be equal to or exceed the net recovery value of the loan collateral.

(5) The loan will be restructured with regular payments at terms no shorter than 5 years for a line of credit and OL term note; and no shorter than 20 years for FO and CL, unless required to be shorter by paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(6) No further advances may be made on a line of credit that is written down.

(7) Loans may not be written down with interest assistance. If a borrower's loan presently on interest assistance requires a writedown, the writedown will be considered without interest assistance.

(8) The writedown is based on writing down the shorter-term loans first.

(9) When a lender requests approval of a writedown for a borrower with multiple loans, the security for all of the loans will be cross-collateralized and continue to serve as security for the loan that is written down. If a borrower has multiple loans and one loan is written off entirely through debt writedown, the security for that loan will not be released and will remain as security for the other written down debt. Additional security instruments will be taken if required to cross-collateralize security and maintain lien priority.

(10) The writedown will be evidenced by an allonge or amendment to the existing note or line of credit reflecting the writedown.

(11) The borrower executes an Agency shared appreciation agreement for loans which are written down and secured by real estate.

(i) The lender will attach the original agreement to the restructured loan document.

(ii) The lender will provide the Agency a copy of the executed agreement, and

(iii) Security instruments must ensure future collection of any appreciation under the agreement.

(12) The lender will prepare and submit the following to the Agency:

(i) A current appraisal of all security in accordance with ยง 762.127.

(ii) A completed report of loss on the appropriate Agency form for the proposed writedown loss claim.

(iii) Detailed writedown calculations as follows:

(A) Calculate the present value.

(B) Determine the net recovery value.

(C) If the net recovery value exceeds the present value, writedown is unavailable; liquidation becomes the next servicing consideration. If the present value equals or exceeds the net recovery value, the debt may be written down to the present value.

(iv) The lender will make any adjustment in the calculations as requested by the Agency.
