
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.144 Repurchase of guaranteed portion from a secondary market holder.
####### Repurchase by the Agency.

(c)(1) If the lender does not repurchase the loan, the holder must inform the Agency in writing that demand was made on the lender and the lender refused. Following the lender's refusal, the holder may continue as holder of the guaranteed portion of the loan or request that the Agency purchase the guaranteed portion. Within 30 days after written demand to the Agency from the holder with required attachments, the Agency will forward to the holder payment of the unpaid principal balance, with accrued interest to the date of repurchase. If the holder does not desire repurchase or purchase of a defaulted loan, the lender must forward the holder its pro-rata share of payments, liquidation proceeds and Agency loss payments.

(2) With its demand on the Agency, the holder must include:

(i) A copy of the written demand made upon the lender.

(ii) Originals of the guarantee and note properly endorsed to the Agency, or the original of the assignment of guarantee.

(iii) A copy of any written response to the demand of the holder by the lender.

(iv) An account to which the Agency can forward the purchase amount via electronic funds transfer.

(3) The amount due the holder from the Agency includes unpaid principal, unpaid interest to the date of demand, and interest which has accrued from the date of demand to the proposed payment date.

(i) Upon request by the Agency, the lender must furnish upon Agency request a current statement, certified by a bank officer, of the unpaid principal and interest owed by the borrower and the amount due the holder.

(ii) Any discrepancy between the amount claimed by the holder and the information submitted by the lender must be resolved by the lender and the holder before payment will be approved by the Agency. The Agency will not participate in resolution of any such discrepancy. When there is a discrepancy, the 30 day Agency payment requirement to the holder will be suspended until the discrepancy is resolved.

(iii) In the case of a request for Agency purchase, the Agency will only pay interest that accrues for up to 90 days from the date of the demand letter to the lender requesting the repurchase. However, if the holder requested repurchase from the Agency within 60 days of the request to the lender and for any reason not attributable to the holder and the lender, the Agency cannot make payment within 30 days of the holder's demand to the Agency, the holder will be entitled to interest to the date of payment.

(4) At the time of purchase by the Agency, the original assignment of guarantee will be assigned by the holder to the Agency without recourse, including all rights, title, and interest in the loan.

(5) Purchase by the Agency does not change, alter, or modify any of the lender's obligations to the Agency specified in the lender's agreement or guarantee; nor does the purchase waive any of the Agency's rights against the lender.

(6) The Agency succeeds to all rights of the holder under the Guarantee including the right of set-off against the lender.

(7) Within 180 days of the Agency's purchase, the lender will reimburse the Agency the amount of repurchase, with accrued interest, through one of the following ways:

(i) By liquidating the loan security and paying the Agency its pro-rata share of liquidation proceeds; or

(ii) Paying the Agency the full amount the Agency paid to the holder plus any accrued interest.

(8) The lender will be liable for the purchase amount and any expenses incurred by the Agency to maintain the loan in its portfolio or liquidate the security. While the Agency holds the guaranteed portion of the loan, the lender will transmit to the Agency any payment received from the borrower, including the pro-rata share of liquidation or other proceeds.

(9) If the borrower files for reorganization under the provisions of the bankruptcy code or pays the account current while the purchase by the Government is being processed, the Agency may hold the loan as long it determines this action to be in the Agency's interest. If the lender is not proceeding expeditiously to collect the loan or reimbursement is not waived under this paragraph, the Agency will demand payment by the lender and collect the purchase amount through administrative offset of any claims due the lender.

(10) The Agency may sell a purchased guaranteed loan on a non-recourse basis if it determines that selling the portion of the loan that it holds is in the Government's best interest. A non-recourse purchase from the Agency requires a written request to the Agency from the party that wishes to purchase it, and written concurrence from the lender;
