
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.145 Restructuring guaranteed loans.
####### Rescheduling.

(c)The following conditions apply when a guaranteed loan is rescheduled or reamortized:

(1) Payments will be rescheduled within the following terms:

(i) FO and existing SW may be amortized over the remaining term of the note or rescheduled with an uneven payment schedule. The maturity date cannot exceed 40 years from the date of the original note.

(ii) OL notes must be rescheduled over a period not to exceed 15 years from the date of the rescheduling. An OL line of credit may be rescheduled over a period not to exceed 7 years from the date of the rescheduling or 10 years from the date of the original note, whichever is less. Advances cannot be made against a line of credit loan that has had any portion of the loan rescheduled.

(iii) CL will be amortized over the remaining term or rescheduled with an uneven payment schedule. The maturity date cannot exceed 30 years from the date of the original note.

(2) The interest rate for a rescheduled loan is the negotiated rate agreed upon by the lender and the borrower at the time of the action, subject to the loan limitations for each type of loan.

(3) A new note is not necessary when rescheduling occurs. However, if a new note is not taken, the existing note or line of credit agreement must be modified by attaching an allonge or other legally effective amendment, evidencing the revised repayment schedule and any interest rate change. If a new note is taken, the new note must reference the old note and state that the indebtedness evidenced by the old note or line of credit agreement is not satisfied. The original note or line of credit agreement must be retained.
