
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.145 Restructuring guaranteed loans.
####### Requirements.

(b)For any restructuring action, the following conditions apply:

(1) The borrower meets the eligibility criteria of ยง 762.120, except the provisions regarding prior debt forgiveness and delinquency on a federal debt do not apply.

(2) The borrower's ability to make the amended payment is documented by the following:

(i) A feasible plan.

(ii) Current financial statements from all liable parties.

(iii) Verification of nonfarm income.

(iv) Verification of all debts of exceeding an amount determined by the Agency.

(v) Applicable credit reports.

(vi) Financial history (and production history for standard eligible lenders) for the past 3 years to support the cash flow projections.

(3) A final loss claim may be reduced, adjusted, or rejected as a result of negligent servicing after the concurrence with a restructuring action under this section.

(4) Loans secured by real estate and/or equipment can be restructured using a balloon payment, equal installments, or unequal installments. Under no circumstances may livestock or crops alone be used as security for a loan to be rescheduled using a balloon payment. If a balloon payment is used, the projected value of the real estate and/or equipment security must indicate that the loan will be fully secured when the balloon payment becomes due. The projected value will be derived from a current appraisal adjusted for depreciation of depreciable property, such as buildings and other improvements, that occurs until the balloon payment is due. For equipment security, a current appraisal is required. The lender is required to project the security value of the equipment at the time the balloon payment is due based on the remaining life of the equipment, or the depreciation schedule on the borrower's Federal income tax return. Loans restructured with a balloon payment that are secured by real estate will have a minimum term of 5 years, and other loans will have a minimum term of 3 years before the scheduled balloon payment. If statutory limits on terms of loans prevent the minimum terms, balloon payments may not be used. If the loan is rescheduled with unequal installments, a feasible plan, as defined in ยง 762.2(b), must be projected for when installments are scheduled to increase.

(5) If a borrower is current on a loan, but will be unable to make a payment, a restructuring proposal may be submitted prior to the payment coming due.

(6) The lender may capitalize the outstanding interest when restructuring the loan as follows:

(i) As a result of the capitalization of interest, a rescheduled promissory note may increase the amount of principal the borrower is required to pay. However, in no case will such principal amount exceed the statutory loan limits contained in ยง 761.8 of this chapter.

(ii) When accrued interest causes the loan amount to exceed the statutory loan limits, rescheduling may be approved without capitalization of the amount that exceeds the limit. Noncapitalized interest may be scheduled for repayment over the term of the rescheduled note.

(iii) Only interest that has accrued at the rate indicated on the borrower's original promissory notes may be capitalized. Late payment fees or default interest penalties that have accrued due to the borrower's failure to make payments as agreed are not covered under the guarantee and may not be capitalized.

(iv) The Agency will execute a modification of guarantee form to identify the new loan principal and the guaranteed portion if greater than the original loan amounts, and to waive the restriction on capitalization of interest, if applicable, to the existing guarantee documents. The modification form will be attached to the original guarantee as an addendum.

(v) Approved capitalized interest will be treated as part of the principal and interest that accrues thereon, in the event that a loss should occur.

(7) The lender's security position will not be adversely affected because of the restructuring. New security instruments may be taken if needed, but a loan does not have to be fully secured in order to be restructured, unless it is restructured with a balloon payment. When a loan is restructured using a balloon payment the lender must take a lien on all assets and project the loan to be fully secured at the time the balloon payment becomes due, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(8) Any holder agrees to any changes in the original loan terms. If the holder does not agree, the lender must repurchase the loan from the holder for any loan restructuring to occur.

(9) After a guaranteed loan is restructured, the lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the restructured promissory note.

(10) For CL, the lender must ensure that the borrower is maintaining the practice for which the CL was made.
