
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.148 Bankruptcy.
####### Estimated loss claims in reorganization,At confirmation.

(c)-(1)The lender may submit an estimated loss claim upon confirmation of the reorganization plan in accordance with the following:

(i) The estimated loss payment will cover the guaranteed percentage of the principal and accrued interest written off, plus any allowable costs incurred as of the effective date of the plan.

(ii) The lender will submit supporting documentation for the loss claim, and any additional information requested by the Agency, including justification for the legal fees included on the claim.

(iii) The estimated loss payment may be revised as consistent with a court-approved reorganization plan.

(iv) Protective advances made and approved in accordance with ยง 762.149 may be included in an estimated loss claim associated with a reorganization, if:

(A) They were incurred in connection with the initiation of liquidation action prior to bankruptcy filing; or

(B) The advance is required to provide repairs, insurance, etc. to protect the collateral as a result of delays in the case, or failure of the borrower to maintain the security.

(2) Interest only losses. The lender may submit an estimated loss claim for interest only after confirmation of the reorganization plan in accordance with the following:

(i) The loss claims may cover interest losses sustained as a result of a court-ordered, permanent interest rate reduction.

(ii) The loss claims will be processed annually on the anniversary date of the effective date of the reorganization plan.

(iii) If the borrower performs under the terms of the reorganization plan, annual interest reduction loss claims will be submitted on or near the same date, beyond the period of the reorganization plan.

(3) Actual loss.

(i) Once the reorganization plan is complete, the lender will provide the Agency with documentation of the actual loss sustained.

(ii) If the actual loss sustained is greater than the prior estimated loss payment, the lender may submit a revised estimated loss claim to obtain payment of the additional amount owed by the Agency under the guarantee.

(iii) If the actual loss is less than the prior estimated loss, the lender will reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus interest at the note rate from the date of the payment of the estimated loss.

(4) Payment to holder. In reorganization bankruptcy, if a holder makes demand upon the Agency, the Agency will pay the holder interest to the plan's effective date. Accruing interest thereafter will be based upon the provisions of the reorganization plan.
