
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.146 Other servicing procedures.
####### Consolidation.

(e)Two or more Agency guaranteed loans may be consolidated, subject to the following conditions:

(1) The borrower must project a feasible plan after the consolidation. See ยง 761.2(b) of this chapter for definition of feasible plan.

(2) Only OL may be consolidated.

(3) Existing lines of credit may only be consolidated with a new line of credit if the final maturity date and conditions for advances of the new line of credit are made the same as the existing line of credit.

(4) Guaranteed OL may not be consolidated with a line of credit, even if the line of credit has been rescheduled.

(5) Guaranteed loans made prior to October 1, 1991, cannot be consolidated with those loans made on or after October 1, 1991.

(6) OL secured by real estate or with an outstanding interest assistance agreement or shared appreciation agreement cannot be consolidated.

(7) A new note or line of credit agreement will be taken. The new note or line of credit agreement must describe the note or line of credit agreement being consolidated and must state that the indebtedness evidenced by the note or line of credit agreement is not satisfied. The original note or line of credit agreement must be retained.

(8) The interest rate for a consolidated OL loan is the negotiated rate agreed upon by the lender and the borrower at the time of the action, subject to the loan limitations for each type of loan.

(9) The Agency approves the consolidation by executing a modification of guarantee. The modification will indicate the consolidated loan amount, new terms, and percentage of guarantee, and will be attached to the originals of the guarantees being consolidated. If loans with a different guarantee percentage are consolidated, the new guarantee will be at the lowest percentage of guarantee being consolidated

(10) Any holders must consent to the consolidation, or the guaranteed portion must be repurchased by the lender.
