
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.149 Liquidation.
####### Protective advances.

(e)(1) Prior written authorization from the Agency is required for all protective advances in excess of $5,000 for CLP lenders and $3,000 for standard eligible lenders. The dollar amount of protective advances allowed for PLP lenders will be specified when PLP status is awarded by the Agency or as contained in the lender's agreement.

(2) The lender may claim recovery for the guaranteed portion of any loss of monies advanced as protective advances as allowed in this part, plus interest that accrues on the protective advances.

(3) Payment for protective advances is made by the Agency when the final loss claim is approved, except in bankruptcy actions.

(4) Protective advances are used only when the borrower is in liquidation, liquidation is imminent, or when the lender has taken title to real property in a liquidation action.

(5) Legal fees are not a protective advance.

(6) Protective advances may only be made when the lender can demonstrate the advance is in the best interest of the lender and the Agency.

(7) Protective advances must constitute a debt of the borrower to the lender and be secured by the security instrument.

(8) Protective advances must not be made in lieu of additional loans.
