
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.149 Liquidation.
####### Liquidation plan.

(b)If a default cannot be cured after considering servicing options and mediation, the lender will proceed with liquidation of the collateral in accordance with the following:

(1) Within 150 days after the payment due date, all lenders will prepare a liquidation plan. Standard eligible and CLP lenders will submit a written liquidation plan to the Agency which includes:

(i) Current balance sheets from all liable parties or, if the parties are not cooperative, the best information available, or in liquidation bankruptcies, a copy of the bankruptcy schedules or discharge notice;

(ii) A proposed method of maximizing the collection of debt which includes specific plans to collect any remaining loan balances on the guaranteed loan after loan collateral has been liquidated, including possibilities for judgment;

(A) If the borrower has converted loan security, the lender will determine whether litigation is cost effective. The lender must address, in the liquidation plan, whether civil or criminal action will be pursued. If the lender does not pursue the recovery, the reason must be documented when an estimated loss claim is submitted.

(B) Any proposal to release the borrower from liability will be addressed in the liquidation plan in accordance with ยง 762.146(c)(2);

(iii) An independent appraisal report on all collateral securing the loan that meets the requirements of ยง 762.127 and a calculation of the net recovery value of the security as defined in ;ยง 761.2(b) of this chapter. The appraisal requirement may be waived by the Agency in the following cases:

(A) The bankruptcy trustee is handling the liquidation and the lender has submitted the trustee's determination of value;

(B) The lender's proposed method of liquidation rarely results in receipt of less than market value for livestock and used equipment; or

(C) A purchase offer has already been received for more than the debt;

(iv) An estimate of time necessary to complete the liquidation;

(v) An estimated loss claim must be filed no later than 150 days past the payment due date unless the account has been completely liquidated and then a final loss claim must be filed.

(vi) An estimate of reasonable liquidation expenses; and

(vii) An estimate of any protective advances.

(2) PLP lenders will submit a liquidation plan as required by their lender's agreement.
