
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.149 Liquidation.
####### Final loss claims.

(i)(1) Lenders must submit a final loss claim when the security has been liquidated and all proceeds have been received and applied to the account. All proceeds must be applied to principal first and then toward accrued interest if the interest is still accruing. The application of the loss claim payment to the account does not automatically release the borrower of liability for any portion of the borrower's debt to the lender. The lender will continue to be responsible for collecting the full amount of the debt and sharing these future recoveries with the Agency in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.

(2) If a lender acquires title to property either through voluntary conveyance or foreclosure proceeding, the lender will submit a final loss claim after disposing of the property. The lender may pay reasonable maintenance expenses to protect the value of the property while it is owned by the lender. These may be paid as protective advances or deducted as liquidation expenses from the sales proceeds when the lender disposes of the property. The lender must obtain Agency written concurrence before incurring maintenance expenses which exceed the amounts allowed in ยง 762.149(e)(1). Packager fees and outside consultant fees for servicing of guaranteed loans are not covered by the guarantee, and will not be paid in a final loss claim.

(3) The lender will make its records available to the Agency for the Agency's audit of the propriety of any loss payment.

(4) All lenders will submit the following documents with a final loss claim:

(i) An accounting of the use of loan funds;

(ii) An accounting of the disposition of loan security and its proceeds;

(iii) A copy of the loan ledger indicating loan advances, interest rate changes, protective advances, and application of payments, rental proceeds, and security proceeds, including a running outstanding balance total; and

(iv) Documentation, as requested by the Agency, concerning the lender's compliance with the requirements of this part.

(5) The Agency will notify the lender of any discrepancies in the final loss claim or, approve or reject the claim within 40 days. Failure to do so will result in additional interest being paid to the lender for the number of days over 40 taken to process the claim.

(6) The Agency will reduce a final loss claim based on its calculation of the dollar amount of loss caused by the lender's negligent servicing of the account. Loss claims may be reduced or rejected as a result of the following:

(i) A loss claim may be reduced by the amount caused by the lender's failure to secure property after a default, and will be reduced by the amount of interest that accrues when the lender fails to contact the borrower or takes no action to cure the default, once it occurs. Losses incurred as a result of interest accrual during excessive delays in collection, as determined by the Agency, will not be paid.

(ii) Unauthorized release of security proceeds, failure to verify ownership or possession of security to be purchased, or failure to inspect collateral as often required so as to ensure its maintenance.

(7) Losses will not be reduced for the following:

(i) Servicing deficiencies that did not contribute materially to the dollar amount of the loss.

(ii) Unaccounted security, as long as the lender's efforts to locate and recover the missing collateral was equal to that which would have been expended in the case of an unguaranteed loan in the lender's portfolio.

(8) Default interest, late charges, and loan servicing fees are not payable under the loss claim.

(9) The final loss will be the remaining outstanding balance after application of the estimated loss payment and the application of proceeds from the liquidation of the security.

(10) If the final loss is less than the estimated loss, the lender will reimburse the Agency for the overpayment, plus interest at the note rate from the date of the estimated loss payment.

(11) The lender will return the original guarantee marked paid after receipt of a final loss claim.
