
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.150 Interest assistance program.
####### Eligibility requirements.

(b)The lender must document that the following conditions have been met for the applicant to be eligible for interest assistance:

(1) A feasible plan cannot be achieved without interest assistance, but can be achieved with interest assistance.

(2) If significant changes in the borrower's cash flow budget are anticipated after the initial 12 months, then the typical cash flow budget must demonstrate that the borrower will still have a feasible plan following the anticipated changes, with or without interest assistance.

(3) The typical cash flow budget must demonstrate that the borrower will have a feasible plan throughout the term of the loan.

(4) The borrower, including members of an entity borrower, does not own any significant assets that do not contribute directly to essential family living or farm operations. The lender must determine the market value of any such non-essential assets and prepare a cash flow budget and interest assistance calculations based on the assumption that these assets will be sold and the market value proceeds used for debt reduction. If a feasible plan can then be achieved, the borrower is not eligible for interest assistance.

(5) A borrower may only receive interest assistance if their total debts (including personal debts) prior to the new loan exceed 50 percent of their total assets (including personal assets). An entity's debt to asset ratio will be based upon a financial statement that consolidates business and personal debts and assets of the entity and its members. Beginning farmers ยง 761.2(b) of this chapter, as defined in ยง 762.102, are excluded from this requirement.
