
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 762 - GUARANTEED FARM LOANS
###### ยง 762.150 Interest assistance program.
####### Interest assistance claims and payments.

(i)To receive an interest assistance payment, the lender must prepare and submit a claim on the appropriate Agency form. The following conditions apply:

(1) Interest assistance payments will be four (4) percent of the average daily principal loan balance prorated over the number of days the loan has been outstanding during the payment period. For loans with a note rate less than four (4) percent, interest assistance payments will be the weighted average interest rate multiplied by the average daily principal balance.

(2) The lender may select at the time of loan closing the date that they wish to receive an interest assistance payment. That date will be included in the interest assistance agreement.

(i) The initial and final claims submitted under an agreement may be for a period less than 12 months. All other claims will be submitted for a 12-month period, unless there is a lender substitution during the 12-month period in accordance with this section.

(ii) In the event of liquidation, the final interest assistance claim will be submitted with the estimated loss claim or the final loss claim if an estimated loss claim was not submitted. Interest will not be paid beyond the interest accrual cutoff dates established in the loss claims according to ยง 762.149(d)(2).

(3) A claim should be filed within 60 days of its due date. Claims not filed within 1 year from the due date will not be paid, and the amount due the lender will be permanently forfeited.

(4) All claims will be supported by detailed calculations of average daily principal balance during the claim period.

(5) Requests for continuation of interest assistance for agreements dated prior to June 8, 2007 will be supported by the lender's analysis of the applicant's farming operation and need for continued interest assistance as set out in their Interest Assistance Agreements. The following information will be submitted to the Agency:

(i) A summary of the operation's actual financial performance in the previous year, including a detailed income and expense statement.

(ii) A narrative description of the causes of any major differences between the previous year's projections and actual performance, including a detailed income and expense statement.

(iii) A current balance sheet.

(iv) A cash-flow budget for the period being planned. A monthly cash-flow budget is required for all lines of credit and operating loans made for annual operating purposes. All other loans may include either an annual or monthly cash-flow budget.

(v) A copy of the interest assistance needs analysis portion of the application form which has been completed based on the planned period's cash-flow budget.

(6) Interest Assistance Agreements dated June 8, 2007 or later do not require a request for continuation of interest assistance. The lender will only be required to submit an Agency IA payment form and the average daily principal balance for the claim period, with supporting documentation.

(7) Lenders may not charge or cause a borrower with an interest assistance agreement to be charged a fee for preparation and submission of the items required for an annual interest assistance claim.
