
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 763 - LAND CONTRACT GUARANTEE PROGRAM
###### ยง 763.19 Contract modification.

(a) The seller and buyer may modify the land contract to lower the interest rate and corresponding amortized payment amount without Agency approval.

(b) With prior written approval from the Agency, the seller and buyer may modify the land contract provided that, in addition to a feasible plan for the upcoming operating cycle, a feasible plan can be reasonably projected throughout the remaining term of the guarantee. Such modifications may include but are not limited to:

(1) Deferral of installments,

(2) Leasing or subleasing, and

(3) Partial releases. All proceeds from a partial release or royalties from mineral extraction must be applied to a prior lien, if one exists, and in addition, the same amount must be credited to the principal balance of the land contract.

(4) Transfer and assumption. If the guarantee is to remain in effect, any transfer of the property and assumption of the guaranteed debt must be made to an eligible buyer for the Land Contract Guarantee Program as specified in ยง 763.5(b), and must be approved by the Agency in writing. If an eligible buyer for transfer and assumption cannot be found, the Deputy Administrator for Farm Loan Programs may make an exception to this requirement when in the Government's best financial interests.

(5) Assignment. The seller may not assign the contract to another party without written consent of the Agency.

(c) Any contract modifications other than those listed above must be approved by the Deputy Administrator for Farm Loan Programs, and will only be approved if such action is determined permissible by law and in the Government's best financial interests.
