
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 764 - DIRECT LOAN MAKING
###### Subpart C - Requirements for All Direct Program Loans
####### ยง 764.101 General eligibility requirements.
######## Credit history.

(d)The applicant must have acceptable credit history demonstrated by debt repayment.

(1) As part of the credit history, the Agency will determine whether the applicant will carry out the terms and conditions of the loan and deal with the Agency in good faith. In making this determination, the Agency may examine whether the applicant has properly fulfilled its obligations to other parties, including other agencies of the Federal Government.

(2) When the applicant caused the Agency a loss by receiving debt forgiveness, the applicant may be ineligible for assistance in accordance with eligibility requirements for the specific loan type. If the debt forgiveness is cured by repayment of the Agency's loss, the Agency may still consider the debt forgiveness in determining the applicant's credit worthiness.

(3) A history of failures to repay past debts as they came due when the ability to repay was within the applicant's control will demonstrate unacceptable credit history. The following circumstances, for example, do not automatically indicate an unacceptable credit history:

(i) Foreclosures, judgments, delinquent payments of the applicant which occurred more than 36 months before the application, if no recent similar situations have occurred, or Agency delinquencies that have been resolved through loan servicing programs available under 7 CFR part 766.

(ii) Isolated incidents of delinquent payments which do not represent a general pattern of unsatisfactory or slow payment.

(iii) "No history" of credit transactions by the applicant.

(iv) Recent foreclosure, judgment, bankruptcy, or delinquent payment when the applicant can satisfactorily demonstrate that the adverse action or delinquency was caused by circumstances that were of a temporary nature and beyond the applicant's control; or the result of a refusal to make full payment because of defective goods or services or other justifiable dispute relating to the purchase or contract for goods or services.
