
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 764 - DIRECT LOAN MAKING
###### Subpart C - Requirements for All Direct Program Loans
####### ยง 764.102 General limitations.

(a) Limitations specific to each loan program are contained in subparts D through I of this part.

(b) The total principal balance owed to the Agency at any one time by the applicant, or any one who will sign the promissory note, cannot exceed the limits established in ยง 761.8 of this chapter.

(c) The funds from the FLP loan must be used for farming operations located in the United States.

(d) The Agency will not make a loan if the proceeds will be used:

(1) For any purpose that contributes to excessive erosion of highly erodible land, or to the conversion of wetlands;

(2) To drain, dredge, fill, level, or otherwise manipulate a wetland; or

(3) To engage in any activity that results in impairing or reducing the flow, circulation, or reach of water, except in the case of activity related to the maintenance of previously converted wetlands as defined in the Food Security Act of 1985.

(e) Any construction financed by the Agency must comply with the standards established in ยง 761.10 of this chapter.

(f) Loan funds will not be used to establish or support a non-eligible enterprise, even if the non-eligible enterprise contributes to the farm. Notwithstanding this limitation, an EM loan may cover qualified equine losses as specified in subpart I of this part.
