
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 764 - DIRECT LOAN MAKING
###### Subpart C - Requirements for All Direct Program Loans
####### ยง 764.103 General security requirements.

(a) Security requirements specific to each loan program are outlined in subparts D through I of this part.

(b) All loans must be secured by assets having a security value of at least 100 percent of the loan amount, except for EM loans as provided in subpart I of this part. If the applicant's assets do not provide adequate security, the Agency may accept:

(1) A pledge of security from a third party; or

(2) Interests in property not owned by the applicant (such as leases that provide a mortgageable value, water rights, easements, mineral rights, and royalties).

(c) An additional amount of security up to 150 percent of the loan amount will be taken when available, except for downpayment loans, MLs made for purposes other than annual operating, and youth loans.

(d) The Agency will choose the best security available when there are several alternatives that meet the Agency's security requirements.

(e) The Agency will take a lien on all assets that are not essential to the farming operation and are not being converted to cash to reduce the loan amount when each such asset, or aggregate value of like assets (such as stocks), has a value in excess of $15,000. The value of this security is not included in the Agency's additional security requirement stated in paragraph (c) of this section. This requirement does not apply to downpayment loans, CL, ML, or youth loans.
