
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 764 - DIRECT LOAN MAKING
###### Subpart G - Operating Loan Program
####### ยง 764.252 Eligibility requirements.

(a) The applicant must comply with the general eligibility requirements established in ยง 764.101.

(b) The applicant and anyone who will sign the promissory note, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, must not have received debt forgiveness from the Agency on any direct or guaranteed loan.

(c) The applicant and anyone who will sign the promissory note, may receive direct OL loans to pay annual farm operating and family living expenses, provided that the applicant meets all other applicable requirements under this part, if the applicant:

(1) Received a write-down under section 353 of the Act;

(2) Is current on payments under a confirmed reorganization plan under Chapter 11, 12, or 13 of Title 11 of the United States Code; or

(3) Received debt forgiveness on not more than one occasion after April 4, 1996, resulting directly and primarily from a Presidentially-designated emergency for the county or contiguous county in which the applicant operates. Only applicants who were current on all existing direct and guaranteed FLP loans prior to the beginning date of the incidence period of a Presidentially-designated emergency and received debt forgiveness on that debt within 3 years after the designation of such emergency meet this exception.

(d) In the case of an entity applicant, the entity must be:

(1) Controlled by farmers engaged primarily and directly in farming in the United States; and

(2) Authorized to operate the farm in the State in which the farm is located.

(e) The applicant and anyone who will sign the promissory note, may close an OL in no more than 7 calendar years, either as an individual or as a member of an entity, except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section. The years may be consecutive or nonconsecutive, and there is no limit on the number of OLs closed in a year. Microloans made to a beginning farmer or a veteran farmer are not counted toward this limitation. Youth loans are not counted toward this limitation. The following exceptions apply:

(1) This limitation does not apply if the applicant and anyone who will sign the promissory note is a beginning farmer.

(2) This limitation does not apply if the applicant's land is subject to the jurisdiction of an Indian tribe, the loan is secured by one or more security instruments subject to the jurisdiction of an Indian tribe, and commercial credit is generally not available to such farm operations.

(3) If the applicant, and anyone who will sign the promissory note, has closed direct OL loans in 4 or more previous calendar years as of April 4, 1996, the applicant is eligible to close OL loans in any 3 additional years after that date.

(4) On a case-by-case basis, may be granted a one-time waiver of OL term limits for a period of 2 years, not subject to administrative appeal, if the applicant:

(i) Has a financially viable operation;

(ii) And in the case of an entity, the members holding the majority interest, applied for commercial credit from at least two lenders and were unable to obtain a commercial loan, including an Agency-guaranteed loan; and

(iii) Has successfully completed, or will complete within one year, borrower training. Previous waivers to the borrower training requirements are not applicable under this paragraph.
