
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 764 - DIRECT LOAN MAKING
###### Subpart I - Emergency Loan Program
####### § 764.355 Security requirements.

(a) EM loans made under § 764.351(a)(1) must comply with the general security requirements established at §§ 764.103, 764.104 and 764.155(b).

(b) EM loans made as specified in § 764.351(a)(2) and (b) must generally comply with the general security requirements established in §§ 764.103, 764.104, and 764.255(b). These general security requirements, however, do not apply to equine loss loans to the extent that a lien is not obtainable or obtaining a lien may prevent the applicant from carrying on the normal course of business. Other security may be considered for an equine loss loan in the order of priority as follows:

(1) Real estate,

(2) Chattels and crops, other than horses,

(3) Other assets owned by the applicant,

(4) Third party pledges of property not owned by the applicant,

(5) Repayment ability under paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, when adequate security is not available because of the disaster, the loan may be approved if the Agency determines, based on an otherwise feasible plan, there is a reasonable assurance that the applicant has the ability to repay the loan provided:

(1) The applicant has pledged as security for the loan all available personal and business security, except as provided in § 764.106;

(2) The farm operating plan, approved by the Agency, indicates the loan will be repaid based upon the applicant's production and income history; addresses applicable pricing risks through the use of marketing contracts, hedging, options, or other revenue protection mechanisms, and includes a marketing plan or similar risk management practice;

(3) The applicant has had positive net cash farm income in at least 3 of the past 5 years; and

(4) The applicant has provided the Agency an assignment on any USDA program payments to be received.

(d) For loans over $25,000, title clearance is required when real estate is taken as security.

(e) For loans of $25,000 or less, when real estate is taken as security, a certification of ownership in real estate is required. Certification of ownership may be in the form of an affidavit which is signed by the applicant, names the record owner of the real estate in question and lists the balances due on all known debts against the real estate. Whenever the Agency is uncertain of the record owner or debts against the real estate security, a title search is required.
