
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 765 - DIRECT LOAN SERVICING - REGULAR
###### Subpart F - Required Use and Operation of Agency Security
####### ยง 765.252 Lease of security.
######## Real estate surface leases.

(a)The borrower must request prior approval to lease the surface of real estate security. The Agency will approve requests provided the following conditions are met:

(1) The lease will not adversely affect the Agency's security interest;

(2) The term of consecutive leases for agricultural purposes does not exceed 3 years, or 5 years if the borrower and the lessee are related by blood or marriage. The term of surface leases for farm property no longer in use, such as old barns, or for nonfarm purposes, such as wind turbines, communication towers, or similar installations can be for any term;

(3) The lease does not contain an option to purchase; and

(4) The lease does not hinder the future operation or success of the farm, or, if the borrower has ceased to operate the farm, the requirements specified in ยง 765.253 are met. Leases for nonfarm enterprises, such as solar farms, which take significant acreage of the operation out of agriculture production are not authorized. Non-productive land may be considered for this type of lease; and.

(5) The lease and any contracts or agreements in connection with the lease must be reviewed and approved by the Government.
