
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 765 - DIRECT LOAN SERVICING - REGULAR
###### Subpart G - Disposal of Chattel Security
####### ยง 765.301 General.

(a) The borrower must account for all chattel security, and maintain records of dispositions of chattel security and the actual use of proceeds. The borrower must make these records available to the Agency upon request.

(b) The borrower may not dispose of chattel security for an amount less than its market value. All proceeds, including any amount in excess of the market value, must be distributed to lienholders for application to the borrower's account in the order of lien priority.

(1) The Agency considers the market value of normal income security to be the prevailing market price of the commodity in the area in which the farm is located.

(2) The market value for basic security is determined by an appraisal obtained in accordance with ยง 761.7 of this chapter.

(c) When the borrower sells chattel security, the property and proceeds remain subject to the Agency lien until the lien is released by the Agency.

(d) The Agency and all other lienholders must provide written consent before a borrower may use proceeds for a purpose other than payment of lienholders in the order of lien priority.

(e) The transaction must not interfere with the borrower's farming operation or jeopardize the borrower's ability to repay the FLP loan.

(f) The disposition must enhance the program objectives of the FLP loan.

(g) When the borrower exchanges security property for other property or purchases new property with sale proceeds, the acquisition must be essential to the farming operation as well as meet the program objectives, purposes, and limitations for the type of loan.

(h) All checks, drafts, or money orders which the borrower receives from the sale of Agency security must be payable to the borrower and the Agency. If all FLP loan installments and any past due installments, for the period of the agreement for the use of proceeds have been paid, however, these payments from the sale of normal income security may be payable solely to the borrower.
