
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 766 - DIRECT LOAN SERVICING - SPECIAL
###### Subpart C - Loan Servicing Programs
####### ยง 766.106 Agency notification of decision regarding a complete application.
######## Notification to borrowers 90 days past due or in non-monetary default.

(b)(1) If the borrower can develop a feasible plan and is eligible for primary loan servicing, the Agency will offer to service the account.

(i) The borrower will have 45 days to accept the offer of servicing. After accepting the Agency's offer, the borrower must execute loan agreements and security instruments, as appropriate.

(ii) If the borrower does not timely accept the offer, or fails to respond, the Agency will notify the borrower of its intent to accelerate the account.

(2) If the borrower cannot develop a feasible plan, or is not eligible for loan servicing, the Agency will send the borrower notification within 15 days, including the calculations used and reasons for the adverse decision, of its intent to accelerate the account in accordance with subpart H of this part, unless the account is resolved through any of the following options:

(i) The borrower may request reconsideration, mediation or voluntary meeting of creditors, or appeal in accordance with 7 CFR parts 11 and 780.

(ii) The borrower may request negotiation of appraisal within 30 days in accordance with ยง 766.115.

(iii) If the net recovery value of non-essential assets is sufficient to pay the account current, the borrower has 90 days to pay the account current.

(iv) The borrower, if eligible in accordance with ยง 766.113, may buy out the loans at the current market value within 90 days.

(v) The borrower may request homestead protection if the borrower's primary residence was pledged as security by providing the information required under ยง 766.151.
