
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 766 - DIRECT LOAN SERVICING - SPECIAL
###### Subpart C - Loan Servicing Programs
####### ยง 766.110 Conservation Contract.
######## Maximum debt reduction for a delinquent borrower.

(i)The amount of debt reduction by a Conservation Contract is calculated as follows:

(1) Divide the contract acres by the total acres that secure the borrower's FLP loans to determine the contract acres percentage.

(2) Multiply the borrower's total unpaid FLP loan balance (principal, interest, and recoverable costs already paid by the Agency) by the percentage calculated in paragraph (i)(1) of this section to determine the amount of FLP debt that is secured by the contract acreage.

(3) Multiply the market value of the total acres, less contributory value of any structural improvements, that secure the borrower's FLP loans by the percent calculated in paragraph (i)(1) of this section to determine the current value of the acres in the contract.

(4) Subtract the market value of the contract acres calculated in paragraph (i)(3) of this section from the FLP debt secured by the contract acres as calculated in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.

(5) Select the greater of the amounts calculated in either paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section.

(6) The lesser of the amounts calculated in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(5) of this section will be the maximum amount of debt reduction for a 50-year contract term.

(7) The borrower will receive 60 percent of the amount calculated in paragraph (i)(6) of this section for a 30-year contract term.

(8) The borrower will receive 20 percent of the amount calculated in paragraph (i)(6) of this section for a 10-year contract term.
