
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 766 - DIRECT LOAN SERVICING - SPECIAL
###### Subpart E - Servicing Shared Appreciation Agreements and Net Recovery Buyout Agreements
####### ยง 766.202 Determining the shared appreciation due.

(a) The value of the real estate security at the time of maturity of the SAA (market value) will be the appraised value of the security at the highest and best use, less the increase in the value of the security resulting from capital improvements added during the term of the SAA (contributory value). The market value of the real estate security property will be determined based on a current appraisal completed within the previous 18 months in accordance with ยง 761.7 of this chapter, and subject to the following:

(1) Prior to completion of the appraisal, the borrower will identify any capital improvements that have been added to the real estate security since the execution of the SAA.

(2) The appraisal must specifically identify the contributory value of capital improvements made to the real estate security during the term of the SAA to make deductions for that value.

(3) For calculation of shared appreciation recapture, the contributory value of capital improvements added during the term of the SAA will be deducted from the market value of the property. Such capital improvements must also meet at least one of the following criteria:

(i) It is the borrower's primary residence. If the new residence is affixed to the real estate security as a replacement for a residence which existed on the security property when the SAA was originally executed, or, the living area square footage of the original residence was expanded, only the value added to the real property by the new or expanded portion of the original residence (if it added value) will be deducted from the market value.

(ii) It is an improvement to the real estate with a useful life of over one year and is affixed to the property, the following conditions must be met:

(A) The item must have been capitalized and not taken as an annual operating expense on the borrower's Federal income tax returns. The borrower must provide copies of appropriate tax returns to verify that capital improvements claimed for shared appreciation recapture reduction are capitalized.

(B) If the new item is affixed to the real estate as a replacement for an item that existed on the real estate at the time the SAA was originally executed, only the value added by the new item will be deducted from the market value.

(b) In the event of a partial sale, an appraisal of the property being sold may be required to determine the market value at the time the SAA was signed if such value cannot be obtained through another method.
