
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 766 - DIRECT LOAN SERVICING - SPECIAL
###### Subpart H - Loan Liquidation
####### ยง 766.357 Involuntary liquidation of real property and chattel.
######## Foreclosure on loans secured by real property.

(b)(1) The Agency will charge the borrower's account for all recoverable costs incurred in connection with the foreclosure and sale of the property.

(2) If the Agency acquires the foreclosed property, the Agency will credit the borrower's account in the amount of the Agency's bid except when incremental bidding was used, in which case the amount of credit will be the maximum bid that was authorized. If the Agency does not acquire the foreclosed property, the Agency will credit the borrower's account in accordance with State law and guidance from the Regional OGC.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2), for an American Indian borrower whose real property secures an FLP loan and is located within the confines of a Federally-recognized Indian reservation, the Agency will credit the borrower's account in the amount that is the greater of:

(i) The market value of the security; or

(ii) The amount of the FLP debt against the property.

(4) After the date of foreclosure, the borrower or former owner retains no statutory, implied, or inherent right of possession to the property beyond those rights granted by State law.

(5) If an unpaid balance on the FLP loan remains after the foreclosure sale of the property, the Agency will service the account in accordance with part 761, subpart F of this chapter and part 3 of this title.
