
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 766 - DIRECT LOAN SERVICING - SPECIAL
###### Subpart H - Loan Liquidation
####### ยง 766.356 Acceleration of loans to American Indian borrowers.
######## Borrower options.

(b)The Agency will notify an American Indian borrower of the right to:

(1) Request the Tribe, having jurisdiction over the Indian reservation in which the real property is located, be assigned the loan;

(i) The Tribe will have 30 calendar days after the Agency notification of such request to accept the assignment of the loan.

(ii) The Tribe must pay the Agency the lesser of the outstanding Agency indebtedness secured by the real estate or the market value of the property.

(iii) The Tribe may pay the amount in a lump sum or according to the rates, terms and requirements established in part 770 of this chapter, subject to the following:

(A) The Tribe must execute the promissory note and loan documents within 90 calendar days of receipt from the Agency;

(B) Such loan may not be considered for debt writedown under 7 CFR part 770.

(iv) The Tribe's failure to respond to the request for assignment of the loan or to finalize the assignment transaction within the time provided, shall be treated as the Tribe's denial of the request.

(2) Request the loan be assigned to the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior's failure to respond to the request for assignment of the loan or to finalize the assignment transaction, shall be treated as denial of the request;

(3) Voluntarily convey the real estate property to the Agency;

(i) The Agency will conduct a environmental review before accepting voluntary conveyance.

(ii) The Agency will credit the account with the greater of the market value of the real estate or the amount of the debt.

(4) Sell the real estate;

(i) The buyer must have the financial ability to buy the property.

(ii) The sale of the property must be completed within 90 calendar days of the Agency's notification.

(iii) The loan can be transferred and assumed by an eligible buyer.

(5) Pay the FLP debt in full.

(6) Consult with the Tribe that has jurisdiction over the Indian reservation to determine if State or Tribal law provides rights and protections that are more beneficial than those provided under this section.
