
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 767 - INVENTORY PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Lease of Real Estate Inventory Property
####### ยง 767.101 Leasing real estate inventory property.

(a) The Agency may lease real estate inventory property:

(1) To the former owner under the Homestead Protection Program;

(2) To a beginning farmer or socially disadvantaged farmer selected to purchase the property but who was unable to purchase it because of a lack of Agency direct or guaranteed loan funds;

(3) When the Agency is unable to sell the property because of lengthy litigation or appeal processes.

(b) The Agency will lease real estate inventory property in an "as is" condition.

(c) The Agency will lease property for:

(1) Homestead protection in accordance with part 766, subpart D, of this chapter.

(2) A maximum of 18 months to a beginning farmer or socially disadvantaged farmer the Agency selected as purchaser when no Agency loan funds are available; or

(3) The shortest possible duration for all other cases subject to the following:

(i) The maximum lease term for such a lease is 12 months.

(ii) The lease is not subject to renewal or extension.

(d) The lessee may pay:

(1) A lump sum;

(2) On an annual installment basis; or

(3) On a crop-share basis, if the lessee is a beginning farmer or socially disadvantaged farmer under paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) The Agency leases real estate inventory property for a market rent amount charged for similar properties in the area.

(f) The Agency may require the lessee to provide a security deposit.

(g) Only leases to a beginning farmer or socially disadvantaged farmer or Homestead Protection Program participant will contain an option to purchase the property.
