
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 767 - INVENTORY PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart D - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### ยง 767.151 General requirements.

Subject to ยง 767.152, the Agency will attempt to sell its inventory property as follows:

(a) The Agency will combine or divide inventory property, as appropriate, to maximize the opportunity for beginning farmers or socially disadvantaged farmersto purchase real property.

(b) The Agency will advertise all real estate inventory property that can be used for any authorized FO loan purpose for sale to beginning farmers or socially disadvantaged farmers no later than 15 days after the Agency obtains title to the property.

(c) If more than one eligible beginning farmer or socially disadvantaged farmer applies, the Agency will select a purchaser by a random selection process open to the public.

(1) All applicants will be advised of the time and place of the selection.

(2) All drawn offers will be numbered.

(3) Offers drawn after the first will be held in suspense pending sale to the successful applicant.

(4) Random selection is final and not subject to administrative appeal.

(d) If there are no offers from beginning farmers or socially disadvantaged farmers, the Agency will sell inventory property by auction or sealed bid to the general public no later than 165 days after the Agency obtains title to the property. All bidders will be required to submit a 10 percent deposit with their bid.

(e) If the Agency receives no acceptable bid through an auction or sealed bid, the Agency will attempt to sell the property through a negotiated sale at the best obtainable price.

(f) If the Agency is not able to sell the property through negotiated sale, the Agency may list the property with a real estate broker. The broker must be properly licensed in the State in which the property is located.
