
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 767 - INVENTORY PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart E - Real Estate Property With Important Resources or Located in Special Hazard Areas
####### ยง 767.201 Real estate inventory property with important resources.
######## Wetland conservation easements.

(a)The Agency will establish permanent wetland conservation easements to protect and restore certain wetlands that exist on inventory property prior to the sale of such property, regardless of whether the sale is cash or credit.

(1) The Agency establishes conservation easements on all wetlands or converted wetlands located on real estate inventory property that:

(i) Were not considered cropland on the date the property was acquired by the Agency; and

(ii) Were not used for farming at any time during the 5 years prior to the date of acquisition by the Agency.

(A) The Agency will consider property to have been used for farming if it was used for agricultural purposes including, but not limited to, cropland, pastures, hayland, orchards, vineyards, and tree farming.

(B) In the case of cropland, hayland, orchards, vineyards, or tree farms, the Agency must be able to demonstrate that the property was harvested for crops.

(C) In the case of pastures, the Agency must be able to demonstrate that the property was actively managed for grazing by documenting practices such as fencing, fertilization, and weed control.

(2) The wetland conservation easement will provide for access to other portions of the property as necessary for farming or other uses.
