
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 769 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS RELENDING PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Highly Fractionated Indian Land Loan Program
####### ยง 769.107 Rates and terms.

(a) Loans made by the Agency to the intermediary lender will bear interest at a fixed rate as determined by the Administrator, but not less than 1 percent per year over the term of the loan.

(1) Interest rates charged by intermediary lender to ultimate recipients on loans from the HFIL revolving fund will be negotiated between the intermediary lender and ultimate recipient, but the rate must be within limits established by the Intermediary Relending Agreement.

(2) The rate should normally be the lowest rate sufficient to cover the loan's proportional share of the revolving fund's debt service costs and administrative costs.

(b) No loan to an intermediary lender will be extended for a period exceeding 30 years. Interest will be due annually but principal payments may be deferred by the Agency.

(1) Loans made by an intermediary lender to an ultimate recipient from the HFIL revolving fund will be scheduled for repayment over a term negotiated by the intermediary lender and ultimate recipient but will not exceed 30 years or the date of the end of the term of the HFIL loan, whichever is sooner.

(2) The term of an HFIL loan must be reasonable and prudent considering the purpose of the loan, expected repayment ability of the ultimate recipient, and the useful life of collateral, and must be within any limits established by the intermediary lender's Intermediary Relending Agreement.
