
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 769 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS RELENDING PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Highly Fractionated Indian Land Loan Program
####### ยง 769.110 Letter of conditions.

(a) The Agency will provide the intermediary lender a letter listing all requirements for the loan. After reviewing the conditions and requirements in the letter of conditions, the intermediary lender must complete, sign, and return the form provided by the Agency indicating the intermediary lender's intent to meet the conditions. If certain conditions cannot be met, the intermediary lender may propose alternate conditions in writing to the Agency. The Agency loan approval official must concur with any changes made to the initially issued or proposed letter of conditions prior to acceptance. The loan request will be withdrawn if the intermediary lender does not respond within 15 days.

(b) At loan closing, the intermediary lender must certify that:

(1) No major changes have been made in the Intermediary Relending Agreement except those approved in the interim by the Agency;

(2) All requirements of the letter of conditions have been met; and

(3) There has been no material change in the intermediary lender or its financial condition since the issuance of the letter of conditions. If there have been changes, the intermediary lender must explain the changes to the Agency. The changes may be waived, at the sole discretion of the Agency.
