
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 769 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS RELENDING PROGRAMS
###### Subpart B - Heirs' Property Relending Program
####### ยง 769.164 Post award requirements.
######## Loan monitoring reviews.

(f)The Agency may conduct loan monitoring reviews, including annual and periodic reviews, and performance monitoring.

(1) At least annually, the intermediary must provide the Agency documents for reviewing the financial status of the intermediary, assessing the progress of using loan funds, and identifying any potential problems or concerns. Non-regulated intermediaries must furnish audited financial statements at least annually.

(2) The intermediary must allow the Agency or its representative to review the operations and financial condition of the intermediary upon the Agency's request. The intermediary and its agents must provide access to all pertinent information to allow the Agency, or any party authorized by the Agency, to conduct such reviews. The intermediary must submit financial or other information within 14 calendar days upon receipt of the Agency's request, unless the data requested is not available within that time frame. Failure to supply the requested information to the satisfaction of the Agency will constitute non-monetary default. The Agency may conduct reviews, including on-site reviews, of the intermediary's operations and the operations of any agent of the intermediary, for the purpose of verifying compliance with Agency regulations and guidelines. These reviews may include, but are not limited to, audits of case files; interviews with owners, managers, and staff; audits of collateral; and inspections of the intermediary's and its agents underwriting, servicing, and liquidation guidelines.
