
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 769 - FARM LOAN PROGRAMS RELENDING PROGRAMS
###### Subpart B - Heirs' Property Relending Program
####### ยง 769.164 Post award requirements.
######## Maintenance of HPRP revolving loan fund.

(d)For as long as any part of an HPRP loan remains unpaid, the intermediary must maintain the HPRP revolving loan fund in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (11) of this section:

(1) All HPRP loan funds received by an intermediary must be deposited into the HPRP revolving loan fund. The intermediary may transfer additional assets into the HPRP revolving loan fund;

(2) All cash of the HPRP revolving loan fund must be deposited in a separate bank account or accounts;

(3) The HPRP revolving loan fund must be segregated from other financial assets of the intermediary, and no other funds of the intermediary will be commingled with the HPRP revolving loan fund;

(4) All moneys deposited in the HPRP revolving loan fund account or accounts will be money from the HPRP revolving loan fund;

(5) Loans to ultimate recipients are advanced from the HPRP revolving loan fund;

(6) The receivables created by making loans to ultimate recipients, the intermediary's security interest in collateral pledged by ultimate recipients, collections on the receivables, interest, fees, and any other income or assets derived from the operation of the HPRP revolving loan fund are a part of the HPRP revolving loan fund;

(7) The portion of the HPRP revolving loan fund consisting of HPRP loan funds may only be used for making loans in accordance with ยง 769.154. The portion of the HPRP revolving loan fund that consists of revolved funds may be used for debt service reserve, approved administrative costs, or for making additional loans;

(8) A reasonable amount of revolved funds must be maintained as a reserve for bad debts. The total amount should not exceed maximum expected losses, considering the credit quality of the intermediary's portfolio of loans. The amount of reserved funds proposed by the intermediary requires written concurrence from the Agency. Unless the intermediary provides loss and delinquency records that, in the opinion of the Agency, justifies different amounts, a reserve for bad debts of 6 percent of outstanding loans must be accumulated over 5 years and then maintained; and

(9) Any funds in the HPRP revolving loan fund from any source that is not needed for debt service reserve, approved administrative costs, or reasonable reserves must be available for additional loans to ultimate recipients.

(i) Funds may not be used for any investments in securities or certificates of deposit of over 30-day duration without the Agency's concurrence.

(ii) The intermediary must make one or more loans to ultimate recipients within 6 months of any disbursement it receives from the Agency. If funds have been unused to make loans to ultimate recipients for 6 months or more, those funds will be returned to the agency unless the Agency provides a written exception based on evidence satisfactory to the Agency that every effort is being made by the intermediary to utilize the HPRP funding in conformance with HPRP objectives;

(10) All reserves and other cash in the HPRP revolving loan fund that are not immediately needed for loans to ultimate recipients or other authorized uses must be deposited in accounts in banks or other financial institutions. Such accounts must be fully covered by Federal deposit insurance or fully collateralized with other securities in accordance with normal banking practices and all applicable State laws. Any interest earned on the account remains a part of the HPRP revolving loan fund; and

(11) If an intermediary receives more than one HPRP loan, it does not need to establish and maintain a separate HPRP revolving loan fund for each loan; it may combine them and maintain only one HPRP revolving loan fund.
