
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 782 - END-USE CERTIFICATE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Implementation of the End-Use Certificate Program
####### ยง 782.12 Filing FSA-750, End-Use Certificate for Wheat.

(a) Each entity that imports wheat originating in Canada shall, for each entry into the U.S., obtain form FSA-750, End-Use Certificate for Wheat, from Kansas City Commodity Office, Warehouse Contract Division, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, MO 64141-6205, and submit the completed original form FSA-750 to KCCO within 10 workdays following the date of entry or release. Each form FSA-750 shall set forth, among other things, the:

(1) Name, address, and telephone number of the importer,

(2) Customs entry number,

(3) Date of entry,

(4) Importer number,

(5) Class of wheat being imported,

(6) Grade, protein content, moisture content, and dockage level of wheat being imported,

(7) If imported as a result of a contract for sale, the date of such contract.

(8) Quantity imported, in net metric tons, rounded to the nearest hundredth of a metric ton, per conveyance,

(9) Storage location of the wheat,

(10) Mode of transportation and the name of the transportation company used to import the wheat, and

(11) A certification that the identity of the Canadian-produced wheat will be preserved until such time as the wheat is either delivered to a subsequent buyer or end-user, or loaded onto a conveyance for direct delivery to an end user.

(b) Importers may provide computer generated form FSA-750, provided such computer generated forms:

(1) Are approved in advance by KCCO,

(2) Contain a KCCO-assigned serial number, and

(3) Contain all of the information required in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(9).

(c) KCCO will accept form FSA-750 submitted through the following methods:

(1) Mail service, including express mail,

(2) Facsimile machine, and

(3) Other electronic transmissions, provided such transmissions are approved in advance by KCCO. The importer remains responsible for ensuring that electronically transmitted forms are received in accordance with paragraph (a).

(d) The original form FSA-750 and one copy of form FSA-750 shall be signed and dated by the importer.

(e) Distribution of form FSA-750 will be as follows:

(1) If form FSA-750 is submitted to KCCO in accordance with paragraph (c)(1);

(i) The original shall be forwarded to Kansas City Commodity Office, Warehouse License and Contract Division, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, MO 64141-6205, by the importer,

(ii) One copy shall be retained by the importer.

(2) If form FSA-750 is submitted to KCCO in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3), the original form FSA-750 that is signed and dated by the importer in accordance with paragraph (d) shall be maintained by the importer,

(3) The importer shall provide a photocopy to the end user or, if the wheat is purchased for purposes of resale, the subsequent buyer(s).

(f) The completion and filing of an end-use certificate does not relieve the importer of other legal requirements, such as those imposed by other U.S. agencies, pertaining to the importation.
