
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 782 - END-USE CERTIFICATE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Implementation of the End-Use Certificate Program
####### ยง 782.15 Filing FSA-751, Wheat Consumption and Resale Report.

(a) For purposes of providing information relating to the consumption and resale of Canadian-produced wheat, form FSA-751, Wheat Consumption and Resale Report, shall be filed with KCCO by each:

(1) Importer and subsequent buyer, for each sale to a subsequent buyer or end user, within 15 workdays following the date of sale.

(2) End user and exporter, for full and partial consumption or export, within 15 workdays following:

(i) March 31,

(ii) June 30,

(iii) September 30, and

(iv) December 31.

(b) Each form FSA-751 shall set forth, among other things, the:

(1) Name, address, and telephone number of the filer,

(2) Storage location of the wheat,

(3) Name and address of the importer,

(4) Form FSA-750, End-Use Certificate for Wheat, serial number,

(5) Class of wheat,

(6) Date the wheat was received at the filer's facility,

(7) Quantity of wheat received, in net metric tons, rounded to the nearest hundredth of a metric ton,

(8) Certification to be completed by end users and exporters that requires the end user or exporter to provide, among other things:

(i) A certification of compliance with these regulations,

(ii) The quantity consumed or exported,

(iii) The quantity remaining,

(iv) The manner in which the commodity was used.

(v) The signature of an authorized representative of the end user or exporter.

(9) Certification to be completed by subsequent buyers and importers that requires the subsequent buyer or importer to provide, among other things:

(i) A certification of compliance with the regulations in this part,

(ii) The quantity resold,

(iii) The name, address, and telephone number of the buyer, and

(iv) The signature of an authorized representative of the subsequent buyer or importer.

(c) End user and exporter shall submit form FSA-751 to KCCO quarterly until the wheat has been fully utilized or exported in accordance with the regulations in this part.

(d) Importers and subsequent buyers shall, for each individual sale, submit form FSA-751 to KCCO until the imported wheat has been fully resold.

(e) Filers may provide computer generated form FSA-751, provided such computer generated forms:

(1) Are approved in advance by KCCO, and

(2) Contain the information required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(9) of this section.

(f) KCCO will accept form FSA-751 submitted through the following methods:

(1) Mail service, including express mail,

(2) Facsimile machine, and

(3) Other electronic transmissions, provided such transmissions are approved in advance by KCCO. The importer, end user, exporter, or subsequent buyer remains responsible for ensuring that electronically transmitted forms are received in accordance with this section.

(g) Distribution of form FSA-751 will be as follows:

(1) If form FSA-751 is submitted to KCCO in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section:

(i) The original shall be forwarded to Kansas City Commodity Office, Warehouse License and Contract Division, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, MO 64141-6205, by the importer, end user, exporter, or subsequent buyer.

(ii) One copy shall be retained by the importer, end user, exporter, or subsequent buyer.

(2) If form FSA-751 is submitted to KCCO in accordance with paragraphs (f)(2) or (f)(3) of this section, the original form FSA-751 shall be maintained by the importer, end user, exporter, or subsequent buyer.
