
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 784 - 2004 EWE LAMB REPLACEMENT AND RETENTION PAYMENT PROGRAM
###### ยง 784.4 Time and method of application.
####### http://www.usda.gov/dafp/psd/.

(a) A request for benefits under this part must be submitted on the Ewe Lamb Replacement and Retention Program Application. The application form may be obtained in person, by mail, by telephone, or by facsimile from any county FSA office. In addition, applicants may download a copy of the form at

(b) The form may be obtained from and must be submitted to the FSA county office serving the county where the sheep and lamb operation is located. The completed form must be received by the FSA county office by the date established by FSA. Applications not received by that date will be disapproved and returned as not having been timely filed and the sheep and lamb operation filing the application will not be eligible for benefits under this program.

(c) The sheep and lamb operation requesting benefits under this part must certify to the accuracy of the information provided in their application for benefits. All information provided is subject to verification and spot checks by FSA. Refusal to allow FSA or any other agency of the Department of Agriculture to verify any information provided will result in a determination of ineligibility. Data furnished by the applicant will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Providing a false certification will lead to ineligibility for payments and may be subject to additional civil and criminal sanctions.

(d) The sheep and lamb operation requesting benefits under this part must maintain accurate records that document that they meet all eligibility requirements specified herein, as may be requested by FSA. Acceptable forms of supporting documentation include, but are not limited to: Sales receipts, farm management records, veterinarian certifications, scrapie program forms and identification numbers, as well as, other types of documents that prove the eligibility of the qualifying ewe lambs and the sheep and lamb operation. The supporting documentation provided must, at a minimum, include: date of lamb purchase or date of birth, date of lamb death (if applicable), lamb identification and control information, number of ewe lambs purchased or retained, and scrapie program identification numbers.
