
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 784 - 2004 EWE LAMB REPLACEMENT AND RETENTION PAYMENT PROGRAM
###### ยง 784.5 Payment eligibility.

(a) Payments can be made, as agreed to by FSA and subject to the availability of funds, for eligible ewe lambs considered by FSA, as determined by FSA only, to have been acquired or held during the base period by eligible sheep and lamb operations for breeding purposes. Payments may be made for eligible ewe lambs held continuously by the operation, through the end of the compliance period, from the time of the first possession of the ewe lamb in the base period. The payment rate cannot exceed the rate provided for in ยง 784.6 and may be prorated pursuant to ยง 784.7. For purposes of this section, the "base period" is the period from August 1, 2003, through July 31, 2004. A purchase in the base period without possession in the base period will not be considered an acquisition in the base period for purposes of this section unless otherwise allowed by FSA.

(b) For the ewe lamb to be eligible, a sheep and lamb operation must certify that the ewe lamb:

(1) During at least part of the base period was a ewe lamb which was both, at the same time, not older than 18 months of age and had not produced an offspring; and

(2) At the time of certification, does not possess any of the following characteristics:

(i) Parrot mouth; or

(ii) Foot rot.

(c) The sheep and lamb operation must certify and agree to:

(1) Maintain the qualifying ewe lambs in the herd for at least one complete, normal offspring lambing cycle, the end of which shall constitute the end of the compliance period for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, and actually maintain the lambs for that period in accord with that certification. The "offspring" lambing cycle refers to the time in which the qualifying ewe lamb's own offspring would be weaned, in a normal course, from that qualifying ewe if the ewe were to have offspring, irrespective of whether the ewe actually produces offspring.

(2) Upon request by an AMS agent or FSA representative, allow the AMS agent or FSA Representative to verify that the ewe lambs meet qualifying characteristics. Spot checks will be conducted by FSA within 30 days of the end of the sign-up period. Any animal showing evidence of parrot mouth, foot rot, or scrapie in such spot checks will be considered to have had those conditions at the time of certification. Other spot checks may be conducted as needed.

(3) Maintain documentation of any death loss of qualifying ewe lambs.

(4) Agree to refund any payments made with respect to any ewe lamb or offspring that has died before completing the full program requirements where said deaths for the operation exceed 10 percent.

(5) Be in compliance with all requirements relating to scrapie, as described in 9 CFR parts 54 and 79.

(d) To be eligible for any payments addressed under this section, a sheep and lamb operation must be engaged in the business of producing and marketing agricultural products at the time of filing the application.

(e) In addition, to be eligible for payment, a sheep and lamb operation must submit a timely application during the application period for benefits and comply with all other terms and conditions of this part or that are contained in the application for such benefits, and such other conditions as may be imposed by FSA.

(f) Proof that each lamb was held during and through the end of the base period as required by paragraph (a) of this section, as must be determined individually for each lamb, shall be provided in such manner, and with such access to the operation and the documents and information related to the operation, as FSA may request.
