
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 786 - DAIRY DISASTER ASSISTANCE PAYMENT PROGRAM (DDAP-III)
###### ยง 786.105 Proof of production.

(a) Evidence of production is required to establish the commercial marketing and production history of the dairy operation so that dairy production losses can be computed in accordance with ยง 786.106.

(b) A dairy producer must, based on the instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator, provide adequate proof of the dairy operation's commercial production, including any dairy herd inventory records available for the operation, for the years of the base period (2003 and 2004 calendar years) and disaster claim period that corresponds with the issuance date of the applicable natural disaster declaration.

(1) A producer must certify and provide such proof as requested that losses for which compensation is claimed were related to the disaster declaration issued and occurred in an eligible county during the eligible claim period.

(2) A producer must certify to the average number of cows in the dairy herd during the base period and applicable disaster claim period when there is insufficient documentation available for verification.

(3) Additional supporting documentation may be requested by FSA as necessary to verify production losses to the satisfaction of FSA.

(c) Adequate proof of production history of the dairy operation under paragraph (b) of this section must be based on milk marketing statements obtained from the dairy operation's milk handler or marketing cooperative. Supporting documents may include, but are not limited to: Tank records, milk handler records, daily milk marketings, copies of any payments received from other sources for production losses, or any other documents available to confirm or adjust the production history losses incurred by the dairy operation. All information provided is subject to verification, spot check, and audit by FSA.

(d) As specified in ยง 786.106, loss calculations will be based on comparing the expected base annual production consistent with this part and the actual production during the applicable disaster claim year. Such calculations are subject to adjustments as may be appropriate such as a correction for losses not due to the disaster. If adequate proof of normally marketed production and any other production for relevant periods is not presented to the satisfaction of FSA, the request for benefits will be rejected. Special adjustments for new producers may be made as determined necessary by the Administrator.
