
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Special Programs
##### PART 786 - DAIRY DISASTER ASSISTANCE PAYMENT PROGRAM (DDAP-III)
###### ยง 786.107 Rate of payment and limitations on funding.

(a) Subject to the availability of funds, the payment rate for eligible production losses determined according to ยง 786.106 is, depending on the State, the annual average Mailbox milk price for the Marketing Order, applicable to the State where the eligible disaster county is located, as reported by the Agricultural Marketing Service during the relevant period. States not regulated under a Marketing Order will be assigned a payment rate based on contiguous or nearby State's Mailbox milk price. Maximum per pound payment rates for eligible losses for dairy operations located in specific states during the relevant period are as follows:

(b) Subject to the availability of funds, each eligible dairy operation's payment is calculated by multiplying the applicable payment rate under paragraph (a) of this section by the operation's total eligible losses as adjusted pursuant to this part. Where there are multiple producers in the dairy operation, individual producers' payments are disbursed according to each producer's share of the dairy operation's production as specified in the application.

(c) If the total value of losses claimed nationwide under paragraph (b) of this section exceeds the $16 million available for the DDAP-III, less any reserve that may be created under paragraph (e) of this section, total eligible losses of individual dairy operations that, as calculated as an overall percentage for each full disaster claim period applicable to the disaster declaration, are greater than 20 percent of the total base annual production will be paid at the maximum rate under paragraph (a) of this section to the extent available funding allows. A loss of over 20 percent in only one or two months during the applicable disaster claim period does not of itself qualify for the maximum per-pound payment. Rather, the priority level must be reached as an average over the whole disaster claim period for the relevant calendar year. Total eligible losses for a producer, as calculated under ยง 786.106, of less than or equal to 20 percent during the eligible claim period will then be paid at a rate, not to exceed the rate allowed in paragraph (a) of this section, determined by dividing the eligible losses of less than 20 percent by the funds remaining after making payments for all eligible losses above the 20-percent threshold.

(d) In no event will the payment exceed the value determined by multiplying the producer's total eligible loss times the average price received for commercial milk production in the producer's area as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) No participant will receive disaster benefits under this part that in combination with the value of production not lost would result in an amount that exceeds 95 percent of the value of the expected production for the relevant period as estimated by the Secretary. Unless otherwise program funds would not be fully expended, the sum of the value of the production not lost, if any; and the disaster payment received under this part, cannot exceed 95 percent of what the production's value would have been if there had been no loss. In no case, however, may the value of production and the payment exceed the value the milk would have without the loss.

(f) A reserve may be created to handle pending or disputed claims, but claims will not be payable once the available funding is expended.
