
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Provisions Common to More Than One Program
##### PART 795 - PAYMENT LIMITATION
###### General
####### ยง 795.2 Applicability.

(a) The provisions of this part are applicable to payments when so provided by the individual program regulations under which the payments are made. The amount of the limitation shall be as specified in the individual program regulations.

(b) The limitation shall be applied to the payments for a commodity for a crop year.

(c) The limitation shall not be applicable to payments made to States, political subdivisions, or agencies thereof for participation in the programs on lands owned by such States, political subdivisions, or agencies thereof so long as such lands are farmed primarily in the direct furtherance of a public function. However, the limitation is applicable to persons who rent or lease land owned by States, political subdivisions, or agencies thereof.

(d) The limitation shall not be applicable to payments made to Indian tribal ventures participating in the programs where a responsible official of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Indian Tribal Council certifies that no more than the program payment limitation shall accrue directly or indirectly to any individual Indian and the State committee reviews and approves the exemption.

(e) Except as provided in part 1497 of this title, this part shall not be applicabie to contracts entered into on or after August 1, 1988 in accordance with part 704 of this chapter.
