
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VII - Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter G - Environmental Protection
##### PART 799 - COMPLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
###### Subpart B - FSA and Program Participant Responsibilities
####### ยง 799.7 FSA program participant responsibilities.

(a) Potential FSA program participants requesting FSA assistance must do all of the following:

(1) Consult with FSA early in the process about potential environmental concerns associated with program participation. The program participation information required to start participation in an FSA program varies by FSA program and may be in the form of an offer, enrollment, sign-up, contract, note and security agreement, or other as is required by the relevant FSA program.

(2) Submit applications for all Federal, regional, State, and local approvals and permits early in the planning process.

(3) Coordinate the submission of program participation information to FSA and other agencies (for example, if a conservation plan is required, then the program participation information is also submitted to USDA's Natural Resources Conservation Service).

(4) Work with other appropriate Federal, State, and Tribal governments to ensure all environmental factors are identified and impacts addressed and, to the extent possible, mitigated, consistent with how mitigation is defined in 40 CFR 1508.20.

(5) Inform FSA of other Federal, State, and Tribal government environmental reviews that have previously been completed or required of the program participant.

(6) Provide FSA with a list of all parties affected by or interested in the proposed action.

(7) If requested by FSA, provide information necessary for FSA to evaluate a proposed action's potential environmental impacts and alternatives.

(8) Ensure that all compliance documentation provided is current, sufficiently detailed, complete, and submitted in a timely fashion.

(9) Be in compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, and policies regarding environmental management and protection.

(10) Not implement any component of the proposed action prior to the completion of FSA's environmental review and final decision, or FSA's approval for that proposed action, consistent with 40 CFR 1506.1.

(b) When FSA receives program participation information for assistance or notification that program participation information will be filed, FSA will contact the potential program participant about the environmental information the program participant must provide as part of the process. This required information may include:

(1) Design specifications;

(2) Topographical, aerial, and location maps;

(3) Surveys and assessments necessary for determining the impact on protected resources listed in ยง 799.33(a)(2);

(4) Nutrient management plans; and

(5) Applications, plans, and permits for all Federal, regional, State and local approvals including construction permits, storm water run-off and operational plans and permits, and engineering designs and plans.
