
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 800 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
###### Administration
####### ยง 800.2 Administrator.
######## et seq.

The Administrator is delegated, from the Secretary, responsibility for administration of the United States Grain Standards Act and responsibilities under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621). The Administrator is responsible for the establishment of policies, guidelines, and regulations by which the Service is to carry out the provisions of the Act and the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946. The regulations promulgated under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 appear at part 68 of this title (7 CFR part 68). The Administrator is authorized by the Secretary to take any action required by law or considered to be necessary and proper to the discharge of the functions and services under the Act. The Administrator may delegate authority to the Deputy Administrator and other appropriate officers and employees. The Administrator may, in emergencies or other circumstances which would not impair the objectives of the Act, suspend for period determined by the Administrator any provision of the regulations or official grain standards. The Administrator may authorize research; experimentation; and testing of new procedures, equipment, and handling techniques to improve the inspection and weighing of grain. The Administrator may waive the official inspection and official weighing requirements pursuant to Section 5 of the Act.
