
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 800 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
###### Inspection Methods and Procedures
####### ยง 800.86 Inspection of shiplot, unit train, and lash barge grain in single lots.
######## Material portions.

(i)A material portion designated by the plan may be reinspected or appeal inspected once in the field, but not both, and once at the Board of Appeals and Review. The reinspection or appeal inspection result shall, unless a material error is found, be averaged with the original inspection determination. The Board appeal inspection result shall, unless a material error is found, be averaged with the previous inspection result. The inspection plan tolerances shall be reapplied to the material portion grain to determine acceptance or rejection. If a material error is found, the reinspection or appeal inspection result shall replace the original inspection result or the Board appeal result shall replace the previous inspection result. For purposes of this section, a material error is defined as results differing by more than two standard deviations. Acceptance or rejection of that portion of grain shall be based on the reinspection or appeal inspection and on the Board appeal inspection result alone when a material error is found.
