
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 800 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
###### Official Reinspection Services and Review of Weighing Services
####### ยง 800.126 How to request reinspection or review of weighing services.
######## Reinspection services.

(1)Requests shall be received (i) before the grain has left the specified service point where the grain was located when the original inspection was performed; (ii) no later than the close of business on the second business day following the date of the original inspection; and (iii) before the identity of the grain has been lost. If a representative file sample, as prescribed in ยง 800.82, is available, official personnel may waive the requirements pursuant to this subparagraph. The requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section may be waived only upon written consent of the applicant and all interested persons. The requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section may be waived at the request of the applicant or other interested persons. The requirement of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section may also be waived upon satisfactory showing by an interested person of evidence of fraud or that because of distance or other good cause, the time allowed for filing was not sufficient. A record of each waiver shall be included in the record of the reinspection service.
