
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 800 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
###### Appeal Inspection Services
####### ยง 800.136 How to request appeal inspection services.
######## Filing requirements.

(b)Requests will be considered filed on the date they are received by official personnel. A record shall be maintained for all requests. Requests must be filed (1) before the grain has left the specified service point where the grain was located when the original inspection was performed, (2) no later than the close of business on the second business day following the date of the last inspection, and (3) before the identity of the grain has been lost. If a representative file sample as prescribed in ยง 800.82 is available, official personnel may waive the requirements pursuant to this paragraph. The requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be waived only upon written consent of the applicant and all interested persons. The requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section may be waived at the request of the applicant or other interested persons. The requirement of paragraph (b)(2) of this section may also be waived upon satisfactory showing by an interested person of evidence of fraud or that because of distance or other good cause, the time allowed for filing was not sufficient. A record of each waiver shall be included in the record of the appeal inspection service.
