
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 800 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
###### Official Reinspection Services and Review of Weighing Services
####### ยง 800.129 Certificating reinspection and review of weighing results.
######## Required statements on reinspection certificates.

(b)Each reinspection certificate shall show the statements required by this section, ยง 800.161, and applicable instructions.

(1) Each reinspection certificate must clearly show (i) the term "Reinspection" and (ii) a statement identifying the superseded certificate. The superseded certificate will be considered null and void as of the date of the reinspection certificate.

(2) When official grade or official factors, Class X weighing results, and official criteria are reported on the same certificate, the reinspection certificate shall show a statement indicating that the reinspection results are based on official grade, or official factors, or official criteria and that all other results are those of the original service.

(3) If the superseded certificate is in the custody of the agency or field office, the superseded certificate shall be marked "Void." If the superseded certificate is not in the custody of the agency or field office at the time the reinspection certificate is issued, a statement indicating that the superseded certificate has not been surrendered shall be shown on the reinspection certificate.

(4) As of the date of issuance of the official certificate, the superseded certificate for the original service will be void and shall not be used to represent the grain.

(5) When certificates are issued under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the reinspection certificate shall show a statement indicating that the results replaced the original results and that the reinspection certificate is not valid for trading purposes.
