
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 800 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
###### Appeal Inspection Services
####### § 800.136 How to request appeal inspection services.
######## General.

(a)Requests shall be filed with the field office responsible for the area in which the original service was performed. Requests for Board appeal inspections may be filed with the Board of Appeals and Review or the field office that performed the appeal inspection. All requests shall include the information specified in § 800.46. Verbal requests shall be confirmed in writing when requested by official personnel as specified in § 800.46. Copies of request forms may be obtained from the field office upon request. If at the time the request is filed the documentation required by § 800.46 is not available, official personnel may, at their discretion, withhold service pending the receipt of the required documentation. An appeal inspection certificate will not be issued unless (1) documentation requested under § 800.46 has been submitted or (2) office personnel determine that sufficient information has been made available so as to perform the request. A record that sufficient information has been made available must be included in the record of the official service.
