
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 800 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
###### Appeal Inspection Services
####### ยง 800.139 Certificating appeal inspections.
######## Required statements.

(c)Each appeal certificate shall show the statements required by this section, ยง 800.161, and applicable instructions.

(1) Each appeal inspection certificate shall clearly show (i) the term "Appeal" or "Board appeal" and (ii) a statement identifying the superseded certificate. The superseded certificate will be considered null and void as of the date of the appeal inspection certificate.

(2) When official grade or official factors, Class X weighing results, and official criteria are reported on the same certificate, the appeal inspection certificate shall show a statement indicating that appeal or Board appeal inspection results are based on official grade, official factors, or official criteria and that all other results are those of the original, reinspection, or, in the case of a Board appeal, the appeal inspection results.

(3) Superseded certificates held by the Service shall be marked "Void." If the superseded certificate is not in the custody of the Service at the time the appeal certificate is issued, a statement indicating that the superseded certificate has not been surrendered shall be shown on the appeal certificate.

(4) As of the date of issuance of the appeal or Board appeal certificate, the superseded certificate for the original, reinspection, or appeal inspection service will be void and shall not be used to represent the grain.

(5) When certificates are issued under paragraph (b) of this section, the appeal inspection certificate shall show a statement indicating that the results replace the original inspection, reinspection, or, in the case of a Board appeal, the appeal inspection results and that the appeal inspection certificate is not valid for trading purposes.
