
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart H - Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings Instituted by the Secretary Under Various Statutes
##### ยง 1.146 Petitions for reopening hearing; for rehearing or reargument of proceeding; or for reconsideration of the decision of the Judicial Officer.
###### Procedure for disposition of petitions.

(b)Within 20 days following the service of any petition provided for in this section, any party to the proceeding may file with the Hearing Clerk a reply thereto. As soon as practicable thereafter, the Judge or the Judicial Officer, as the case may be, shall announce the determination whether to grant or deny the petition. The decision of the Judicial Officer shall automatically be stayed pending the determination to grant or deny a timely petition. Such decision shall not be final for purposes of judicial review until the petition is denied or the decision is affirmed or modified pursuant to the petition and the time for judicial review shall begin to run upon the filing of such final action on the petition. In the event that any such petition is granted, the applicable rules of practice, as set out elsewhere herein, shall be followed. A person filing a petition under this section shall be regarded as the moving party, although such person shall be referred to as the complainant or respondent, depending upon the designation in the original proceeding.
