
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15b - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 15b.7 Notice of nondiscrimination and accessible services.

(a) A recipient shall take appropriate initial and continuing steps to notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants, and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, and unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 and this part. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs or activities. The recipient shall also identify the responsible employee designated pursuant to ยง 15b.6(a), and identify the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities. A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this paragraph within 90 days of the effective date of this part. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include but are not limited to the posting of notices, placement of notices in the recipient's publications, radio announcements, and the use of other visual and aural media.

(b) If a recipient publishes or uses recruitment materials or publications containing general information that it makes available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants or employees, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section. A recipient may meet the requirement of this paragraph either by including appropriate inserts in existing materials and publications or by revising and reprinting the materials and publications.
