
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15b - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart C - Accessibility
##### ยง 15b.18 Existing facilities.
###### Historic Preservation Programs; Application for waiver of program accessibility requirements.

(e)(1) A recipient shall operate each assisted program or activity involving Historic Preservation Programs so that when each part is viewed in its entirety it is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not necessarily require a recipient to make each of its existing historic properties or every part of an historic property accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. Methods of achieving accessibility include:

(i) Making physical alterations which enable handicapped persons to have access to otherwise inaccessible areas or features of historic properties;

(ii) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict otherwise inaccessible areas or features of historic properties;

(iii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through otherwise inaccessible portions of historic properties;

(iv) Adopting other innovative methods to achieve accessibility. Because the primary benefit of an Historic Preservation Program is the experience of the historic property itself, in taking steps to achieve accessibility, recipients shall give priority to those means which make the historic property, or portions thereof physicially accessible to handicapped individuals.

(2) Where accessibility cannot be achieved without causing a substantial impairment of significant historic features, the Secretary may grant a waiver of the accessibility requirement. In determining whether accessibility can be achieved without causing a substantial impairment, the Secretary shall consider the following factors:

(i) Scale of property, reflecting its ability to absorb alterations;

(ii) Use of the property, whether primarily for public or private purpose;

(iii) Importance of the historic features of the property to the conduct of the program or activity; and,

(iv) Cost of alterations in comparison to the increase in accessibility.

(3) Where the property is federally owned or where Federal funds may be used for alterations, the comments of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation shall be obtained when required by section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), and 36 CFR part 800, prior to effectuation of structural alterations.
