
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 868 - GENERAL REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Marketing Standards
####### ยง 868.103 Public notification of grade standards action.

(a) After developing a standardization proposal, AMS will publish a notice in theproposing new or revised standards or suspending or terminating existing standards. The notice will provide a sufficient comment period for interested parties to submit comments.

(b) AMS will simultaneously issue a news release about these actions, notifying the affected industry and general public. AMS will also distribute copies of proposals to anyone requesting a copy or to anyone it believes may be interested, including other Federal, State, or local government agencies.

(c) All comments received within the comment period will be made part of the public record maintained by AMS, will be available to the public for review, and will be considered by AMS before final action is taken on the proposal.

(d) Based on the comments received, AMS's knowledge of standards, grading, marketing, and other technical factors, and any other relevant information, AMS will decide whether the proposed actions should be implemented.

(e) If AMS concludes that the changes as proposed or with appropriate modifications should be adopted, AMS will publish the final changes in theas a final notice. AMS will make the grade standards and related information available in printed form and electronic media.

(f) If AMS determines that proposed changes are not warranted, or otherwise are not in the public interest, AMS will either publish in thea notice withdrawing the proposal, or will revise the proposal and again seek public input.
