
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 868 - GENERAL REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart E - United States Standards for Milled Rice
####### Terms Defined
######## ยง 868.302 Definition of other terms.
######### Classes.

(d)There are seven classes of milled rice. The following four classes shall be based on the percentage of whole kernels, and types of rice:

(1) "Long grain milled rice" shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and in U.S. Nos. 1 through 4 not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of medium or short grain rice. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 long grain milled rice shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of medium or short grain milled rice (broken kernels do not apply).

(2) "Medium grain milled rice" shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and in U.S. Nos. 1 through 4 not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of long grain rice or whole kernels of short grain rice. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 medium grain milled rice shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of long or short grain milled rice (broken kernels do not apply).

(3) "Short grain milled rice" shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and in U.S. Nos. 1 through 4 not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of long grain rice or whole kernels of medium grain rice. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 short grain milled rice shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of long or medium grain milled rice (broken kernels do not apply).

(4) "Mixed milled rice" shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and more than 10.0 percent of "other types" as defined in paragraph (i) of this section. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 mixed milled rice shall contain more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of "other types" (broken kernels do not apply).

(5) "Second head milled rice" shall consist of milled rice which, when determined in accordance with ยง 868.303, contains:
