
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15b - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart D - Preschool, Elementary, Secondary, Adult, and Extension Education
##### ยง 15b.27 Extension education.
###### Delivery sites.

(b)(1) Where existing extension office facilities are inaccessible, recipients may make aid, benefits, or services normally provided at those sites available to qualified handicapped persons through other methods which are equally effective. These methods may include meetings in accessible locations, home visits, written or telephonic communications, and other equally effective alternatives.

(2) For aid, benefits, or services delivered at other publicly-owned facilities, recipients shall select accessible facilities wherever possible. If accessible facilities cannot be selected because they are unavailable or infeasible due to the nature of the activity, recipients shall use other methods to deliver aid, benefits, or services to qualified handicapped persons. These methods may include the redesign of activities or some sessions of activities, the provision of aides, home visits, or other equally effective alternatives.

(3) For aid, benefits, or services delivered at privately-owned facilities, such as homes and farm buildings, recipients shall use accessible facilities whenever qualified handicapped persons requiring such accessibility are participating, have expressed an interest in participating, or are likely to participate. If accessible facilities cannot be selected because they are unavailable or infeasible due to the nature of the activity, recipients shall use other methods to deliver aid, benefits, or services to qualified handicapped persons. These methods may include the redesign of activities or some sessions of activities, the provision of aides, home visits, or other equally effective alternatives.

(4) Recipients shall make camping activities accessible to qualified handicapped persons. Recipients are not required to make every existing camp, all existing camp facilities, or all camp sessions accessible, but recipients who operate more than one camp or session may not limit qualified handicapped persons to one camp or session.
