
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 868 - GENERAL REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart E - United States Standards for Milled Rice
####### Special Grades, Special Grade Requirements, and Special Grade Designations
######## ยง 868.315 Special grades and special grade requirements.
######### Glutinous milled rice.

(e)Glutinous milled rice shall be special varieties of rice (Oryza sativa L. glutinosa) which contain more than 50 percent chalky kernels. For long grain, medium grain, and short grain milled rice, grade U.S. No. 1 shall contain not more than 1.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 2 not more than 2.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 3 not more than 4.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 4 not more than 6.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 5 not more than 10.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, and grade U.S. No. 6 not more than 15.0 percent of nonchalky kernels. For second head milled rice, grade U.S. No. 1 shall contain not more than 4.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 2 not more than 6.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 3 not more than 10.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 4 not more than 15.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, and grade U.S. No. 5 not more than 20.0 percent of nonchalky kernels. For screenings milled rice, there are no grade limits for percent of nonchalky kernels. For brewers milled rice, the special grade "Glutinous milled rice" is not applicable.
