
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Federal Grain Inspection
##### PART 868 - GENERAL REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart E - United States Standards for Milled Rice
####### Special Grades, Special Grade Requirements, and Special Grade Designations
######## ยง 868.315 Special grades and special grade requirements.
######### Parboiled milled rice.

(c)Parboiled milled rice shall be milled rice in which the starch has been gelatinized by soaking, steaming, and drying. Grades U.S. No. 1 to U.S. No. 6, inclusive, shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of ungelatinized kernels. Grades U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 shall contain not more than 0.1 percent, grades U.S. No. 3 and U.S. No. 4 not more than 0.2 percent, and grades U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 not more than 0.5 percent of nonparboiled rice. If the rice is: (1) Not distinctly colored by the parboiling process, it shall be considered "Parboiled Light"; (2) distinctly but not materially colored by the parboiling process, it shall be considered "Parboiled"; (3) materially colored by the parboiling process, it shall be considered "Parboiled Dark." The color levels for "Parboiled Light," "Parboiled," and "Parboiled Dark" shall be in accordance with the interpretive line samples for parboiled rice.
