
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter VIII - Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Fair Trade Practices
##### PART 869 - REGULATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES WAREHOUSE ACT
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 869.6 Suspension, revocation and liquidation.

(a) AMS may, after an opportunity for a hearing as provided in ยง 869.8, suspend, revoke or liquidate any license or agreement issued under the Act, for any violation of or failure to comply with any provision of the Act, regulations or any applicable licensing or provider agreement.

(b) The reasons for a suspension, revocation or liquidation under this part include, but are not limited to:

(1) Failure to perform licensed or authorized services as provided in this part or in the applicable licensing or provider agreement;

(2) Failure to maintain minimum financial requirements as provided in the applicable licensing or provider agreement;

(3) Failure to submit a proper annual financial statement within the established time period as provided in the applicable licensing or provider agreement.

(4) Failure to maintain control of the warehouse or provider system.

(5) The warehouse operator or provider requests closure, cancellation or liquidation. and

(6) Commission of fraud against AMS, any depositor, EWR or OED holder or user, or any other function or operation under this part.

(c) AMS retains USWA's full authority over a warehouse operator or provider for one year after such license revocation or provider agreement termination or until satisfaction of any claims filed against such warehouse operator or provider are resolved, whichever is later.

(d) Upon AMS's determination that continued operation of a warehouse by a warehouse operator or an electronic provider system by a provider is likely to result in probable loss of assets to storage depositors, or loss of data integrity to EWR or OED holders and users. AMS may immediately suspend, close, or take control and begin an orderly liquidation of such warehouse inventory or provider system data as provided in this part or in the applicable licensing or provider agreement.

(e) Any disputes involving probable loss of assets to storage depositors, or loss of data integrity to EWR or OED holders and users will be determined by AMS for the benefit of the depositors, or EWR or OED holders and users and such determinations shall be final.
