
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 900 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Procedural Requirements Governing Proceedings on Petitions To Modify or To Be Exempted From Marketing Orders
###### ยง 900.61 Depositions.
####### Procedure on examination.

(e)(1) The deponent shall be examined under oath or affirmation and shall be subject to cross-examination. The testimony of the deponent shall be recorded by the judge or by some person under his direction and in his presence. In lieu of oral examination, parties may transmit written interrogatories to the judge prior to the examination and the judge shall propound such interrogatories to the deponent.

(2) The applicant must arrange for the examination of the witness either by oral examination or by written interrogatories. If it is found by the judge, upon the protest of a party to the proceeding, that such party has his residence and his place of business more than 100 miles from the place of the examination and that it would constitute an undue hardship upon such party to be represented at the examination, the applicant will be required to conduct the examination by means of interrogatories. When the examination is conducted by means of interrogatories, copies of the interrogatories shall be served upon the other parties to the proceeding at least five days prior to the date set for the examination, and the other parties shall be afforded an opportunity to file with the judge cross-interrogatories at any time prior to the time of the examination.
