
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart H - Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings Instituted by the Secretary Under Various Statutes
##### ยง 1.148 Depositions.
###### Judge's order for taking deposition.

(b)(1) If the Judge finds that the testimony may not be otherwise available at the hearing, the taking of the deposition may be ordered. The order shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk and shall state:

(i) The time of the deposition;

(ii) The place of the deposition;

(iii) The manner of the deposition (telephone, audio-visual telecommunication, or personal attendance of those who are to participate in the deposition);

(iv) The name of the officer before whom the deposition is to be made; and

(v) The name of the deponent. The officer and the time, place, and manner need not be the same as those suggested in the motion for the deposition.

(2) The deposition shall be conducted by telephone unless the Judge determines that conducting the deposition by audio-visual telecommunication:

(i) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;

(ii) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the deposition; or

(iii) Would cost less than conducting the deposition by telephone. If the Judge determines that a deposition conducted by audio-visual telecommunication would measurably increase the United States Department of Agriculture's cost of conducting the deposition, the deposition shall be conducted by personal attendance of any individual who is expected to participate in the deposition or by telephone.

(3) If the deposition is not conducted by telephone, the deposition shall be conducted by audio-visual telecommunication unless the Judge determines that conducting the deposition by personal attendance of any individual who is expected to participate in the deposition:

(i) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;

(ii) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the deposition; or

(iii) Would cost less than conducting the deposition by telephone or audio-visual telecommunication.
