
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 900 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart F - Procedure Governing Meetings To Arbitrate and Mediate Disputes Relating to Sales of Milk or Its Products
###### ยง 900.115 Hearing.

(a) The arbitrator shall have full discretion to conduct the hearing in such manner as will, in his opinion, enable him to ascertain all the facts in the case.

(b) Parties to the dispute may appear in person or by duly accredited agents and may be represented by counsel.

(c) All relevant and material evidence may be presented. The arbitrator shall not be bound by the legal rules of evidence.

(d) The arbitrator, in the presence of the parties, may require the production of books and records for examination by himself, but not for examination of confidential information by other parties to the dispute unless the party producing the same consents to its examination by the other parties to the dispute.

(e) No evidence offered by one party shall be received except in the presence of all parties unless the parties so agree in a submission specifying the nature of the evidence to be received.

(f) Final determination as to what will be considered confidential information shall be made by the arbitrator.

(g) The arbitrator may request the opinions of economists, marketing specialists, statisticians, lawyers, accountants, and other experts.

(h) When more than two arbitrators are designated to hear a dispute, and they disagree, the award of the majority shall be the final award. If the arbitrators are evenly divided, there shall be no award.

(i) A stenographic record of all the proceedings during an arbitration must be made.
