
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15b - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart F - Other Aid, Benefits, or Services
##### ยง 15b.41 Multi-family rental housing.
###### New construction.

(b)(1) Recipients receiving assistance from the Department for multi-family rental housing projects constructed after the effective date of this part shall construct at least five percent of the units in the project or one unit, whichever is greater, to be accessible to or adaptable for physically handicapped persons. The requirement that five percent of the units in the project or at least one unit, whichever is greater, be accessible or adaptable may be modified if a recipient shows, through a market survey approved by the Department, that a different percentage of accessible or adaptable units is appropriate for a particular project and its service area.

(i) The variety of units accessible to or adaptable for physically handicapped persons shall be comparable to the variety of units available in the project as a whole.

(ii) No extra charge may be made for use of accessible or adaptable units.

(iii) A recipient that operates multi-family rental housing projects on more than one site may not locate all accessible or adaptable units at one site unless only one accessible or adaptable unit is required.

(2) Standards for accessibility are contained in subpart C and in appropriate regulations.
