
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 900 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With Marketing Orders for Fruits, Vegetables, and Nuts Pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as Amended
###### ยง 900.403 Instructions.

The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner herein provided, under supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:

(a) Determine the time of commencement and termination of the period of the referendum, and the time prior to which all ballots must be cast.

(b) Determine whether ballots may be cast by mail, at polling places, at meetings of producers or processors, or by any combination of the foregoing.

(c) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. Ballot material shall provide for recording essential information for ascertaining:

(1) Whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter, and

(2) The total volume (i) produced for market during the representative period, or (ii) canned or frozen for market during the representative period.

(d) Give reasonable advance notice of the referendum (1) by utilizing without advertising expense available media of public information (including, but not being limited to, press and radio facilities) serving the production area, announcing the dates, places, or methods of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information, and (2) by such other means as said agent may deem advisable.
