
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 905 - ORANGES, GRAPEFRUIT, TANGERINES, AND PUMMELOS GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Regulations
####### § 905.50 Marketing policy.

(a) Before making any recommendations pursuant to § 905.51 for any variety of fruit, the committee shall, with respect to the regulations permitted by § 905.52, submit to the Secretary a detailed report setting forth an advisable marketing policy for such variety for the then current shipping season. Such report shall set forth the proportion of the remainder of the total crop of such variety of fruit (determined by the committee to be available for shipment during the remainder of the shipping season of such variety) deemed advisable by the committee to be shipped during such season.

(b) In determining each such marketing policy and advisable proportion, the committee shall give due consideration to the following factors relating to citrus fruit produced in Florida and in other States:

(1) The available crop of each variety of citrus fruit in Florida, and in other States, including the grades and sizes thereof, which grades and sizes in Florida shall be determined by the committee pursuant to § 905.31;

(2) The probable shipments of citrus fruit from other States;

(3) The level and trend in consumer income;

(4) The prospective supplies of competitive commodities; and

(5) Other pertinent factors bearing on the marketing of fruit.

(c) In addition to the foregoing, the committees shall set forth a schedule of proposed regulations for the remainder of the shipping season for each variety of fruit for which recommendations to the Secretary pursuant to § 905.51 are contemplated. Such schedules shall recognize the practical operations of harvesting and preparation for market of each variety and the change in grades and sizes thereof as the respective seasons advance. In the event it is deemed advisable to alter such marketing policy or advisable proportion as the shipping season progresses, in view of changed demand and supply conditions with respect to fruit, the said committee shall submit to the Secretary a report thereon.

(d) The committee shall transmit a copy of each marketing policy report or revision thereof to the Secretary and to each producer and handler who files a request therefor. Copies of all such reports shall be maintained in the office of the committee where they shall be available for examination by producers and handlers.
