
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 905 - ORANGES, GRAPEFRUIT, TANGERINES, AND PUMMELOS GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Non-Regulated Fruit
####### § 905.146 Special purpose shipments.

(a) A Special Purpose Shipper is one who handles Florida citrus fruit that is certified by a Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services licensed certifying agent as organically grown under Florida law. In addition, the shipper shall certify that shipments will be limited to outlets handling organically grown fruits. Any such shipments shall be subject to a Certificate of Privilege issued by the committee.

(b) To qualify for a Certificate of Privilege, each such shipper must notify the committee prior to the first shipment of certified organically grown Florida citrus fruit in the fiscal period of the shipper's intent to ship such citrus, submit an application on forms supplied by the committee, and agree to other requirements as set forth in §§ 905.147 and 905.148 inclusive, with respect to such shipments. The shipper shall certify that no claims will be made, written or verbal, concerning any alleged advantages of using, or any alleged superiority of, fruit shipped under a Certificate of Privilege, compared to other Florida produced citrus.

(c) Citrus meeting all other applicable requirements may be handled without regard to grade regulations issued under § 905.52 under the following conditions:

(1) Such fruit meets the requirements of U. S. No. 2 Russet grade and those requirements of U. S. No. 1 grade relating to shape (form), as such requirements are set forth in the revised U. S. Standards for Grades of Florida Oranges and Tangelos (7 CFR 51.1140 through 51.1179), the revised Standards for Florida Tangerines (7 CFR 51.1810 through 51.1837), or the revised U. S. Standards for Grades of Florida Grapefruit (7 CFR 51.750 through 51.784). Such fruit also meets applicable minimum size requirements in effect for domestic shipments of citrus fruits.

(2) All such citrus shall be inspected as required by § 905.53 by the Federal or Federal-state Inspection Service prior to the time such citrus is shipped from the packing facility, and certified as meeting the applicable requirements.

(3) Be reported as required in § 905.148.
