
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 905 - ORANGES, GRAPEFRUIT, TANGERINES, AND PUMMELOS GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Non-Regulated Fruit
####### ยง 905.153 Procedure for determining handlers' permitted quantities of red seedless grapefruit when a portion of sizes 48 and 56 of such variety is restricted.
######## regulation period

(a) For the purposes of this section, the prior period specified in ยง 905.52 is hereby established as an average week within the immediately preceding three seasons. Each handler's average week shall be computed by adding the total volume of red seedless grapefruit handled in the immediately preceding three seasons and dividing the total by 99. The average week for handlers with less than three previous seasons of shipments shall be calculated by adding the total volume of shipments for the seasons they did ship red seedless grapefruit, divide by the number of seasons, divide further by 33. If crop conditions limit shipments from any or all of the immediately preceding three season(s), the committee may use a prior season or seasons for the purposes of calculating an average week. New handlers with no record of shipments could ship size 48 and 56 red seedless grapefruit as a percentage of total shipments equal to the percentage applied to other handlers' average week; once such handlers have recorded shipments, their average week shall be calculated as an average of total shipments for the weeks they have shipped red seedless grapefruit during the current season. When used in the regulation of red seedless grapefruit, the term season means the weeks beginning the third Monday in September and ending the first Sunday in the following May. The termmeans the 22-week period beginning the third Monday in September of the current season.

(b) When a size limitation restricts the shipment of a portion of sizes 48 and 56 red seedless grapefruit during a particular week as provided in ยง 905.52, the committee shall compute the quantity of sizes 48 and 56 red seedless grapefruit that may be shipped by each handler by multiplying the handler's calculated average week shipments of such grapefruit by the percentage established by regulation for red seedless grapefruit for that week. Such set percentage may vary from week to week but shall not be less than 25 percent in any week.

(c) The committee shall notify each handler of the quantity of size 48 and 56 red seedless grapefruit such handler may handle during a particular week.

(d) During any regulation week for which the Secretary has fixed the percentage of sizes 48 and 56 red seedless grapefruit, any person who has received an allotment may handle, in addition to their total allotment available, an amount of size 48 and 56 red seedless grapefruit up to 10 percent greater than their allotment. The quantity of the overshipment shall be deducted from the handler's allotment for the following week. Overshipments will not be allowed during the last week of regulation. If the handler fails to use his or her entire allotment, the undershipment is not carried forward to the following week. Each handler shipping size 48 and/or 56 red seedless grapefruit during the regulation period shall complete and submit to the committee, no later than 2 p.m. of the business day following the shipment, a report of red seedless grapefruit shipments by day for each regulation week.

(e) Any handler may transfer or loan any or all of their shipping allotment (excluding the overshipment allowance) of size 48 and 56 red seedless grapefruit to any other handler. Each handler party to such transfer or loan shall no later than noon on the Wednesday following the regulation week notify the committee so the proper adjustment of records may be made. In each case, the committee shall confirm in writing all such transactions, prior to the following week, to the handlers involved. The committee may act on behalf of handlers wanting to arrange allotment loans or participate in the transfer of allotments.

(f) New handlers with no record of shipments planning to ship red seedless grapefruit covered by any percentage size regulation shall register with the committee prior to the regulation period so their allotments can be properly calculated. Each new handler shall provide on a form furnished by the committee their Florida citrus fruit dealer's license number, their Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services' Fruit and Vegetable Division packinghouse registration number, and the physical location of the packinghouse where the red seedless grapefruit is to be prepared for market. The committee shall notify any new handlers of their allotments prior to the regulation period.
