
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 905 - ORANGES, GRAPEFRUIT, TANGERINES, AND PUMMELOS GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Non-Regulated Fruit
####### ยง 905.162 Repacking certificate of privilege.
######## Suspension or denial of certificate of privilege.

(c)The committee may investigate the handling of repacked fresh citrus fruit shipments under certificates of privilege to determine whether repacking shippers are complying with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Whenever the committee finds that a repacking shipper is failing to comply with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates, the certificate of privilege issued to such repacking shipper may be suspended or, in the case of an application for the issuance of an initial certificate of privilege, may be denied. Such suspension of a certificate shall be for a reasonable period of time as determined by the committee, but in no event shall it extend beyond the end of the then current fiscal period. In the case of the denial of an application for the issuance of an initial certificate, such certificate shall be denied until the applicant comes into compliance with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Prior to suspending or denying an application for a certificate of privilege, the committee shall give the shipper or applicant an opportunity, either orally or in writing, to present opposing facts and reasons. The shipper or applicant shall be informed of the committee's determination in writing and in a timely manner.
