
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 905 - ORANGES, GRAPEFRUIT, TANGERINES, AND PUMMELOS GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Non-Regulated Fruit
####### § 905.149 Procedure for permitting growers to ship tree run citrus fruit.
######## Suspension or denial of a Grower Tree Run Certificate.

(d)The committee may investigate the handling of tree run shipments under a Grower Tree Run Certificate to determine whether growers are complying with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Whenever the committee finds that a grower is failing to comply with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates, the Grower Tree Run Certificate issued to such grower may be suspended or, in the case of an application for the issuance of an initial Grower Tree Run Certificate, may be denied. Such suspension of a certificate shall be for a reasonable period of time as determined by the committee, but in no event shall it extend beyond the end of the fiscal period. In the case of the denial of an application for the issuance of an initial certificate, such certificate shall be denied until the applicant comes into compliance with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Prior to suspending or denying an application for a Grower Tree Run Certificate, the committee shall give the grower reasonable advance notice in writing of its intention and the facts and reasons therefor, and afford the grower an opportunity, either orally or in writing, to present opposing facts and reasons. The grower shall be informed of the committee's determination in writing and in a timely manner.

(e) To qualify for a Grower Tree Run Certificate, each such grower must notify the committee prior to the first shipment of tree run Florida citrus fruit of the grower's intent to ship such citrus, submit an application on forms supplied by the committee, and agree to other requirements as set forth in this section with respect to such shipments.

(f) The handling of tree run citrus under a Grower Tree Run Certificate shall be exempt from the provisions of §§ 905.52 and 905.53 and the regulations issued thereunder, under the following conditions:

(1) A grower may only ship up to 150 1bushel boxes per variety, per shipment.

(2) A grower may only ship up to 3,000 boxes per variety per season.

(3) Each grower shall apply to the Citrus Administrative Committee and receive a Grower Tree Run Certificate prior to shipping their own tree run Florida citrus fruit.

(4) Each grower of citrus shipping under a Grower Tree Run Certificate shall supply the committee with reports on each shipment as requested by the committee, on forms supplied by the committee, providing the following information: The name and address of the grower, along with the grower's Grower Tree Run Certificate number; the legal description of the grove; the variety and amount of citrus shipped; the date the fruit was shipped; and the truck/trailer license number. A copy of the form will be completed for each shipment. One copy of the report will be forwarded by the grower to the committee office within 10 days after such shipment, and one copy of the report will accompany each shipment and be given to the Road Guard Station.

(5) Each container of tree run fruit shipped under a Grower Tree Run Certificate shall be labeled with or contain the name and address of the grower shipping under the Grower Tree Run Certificate.
