
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 905 - ORANGES, GRAPEFRUIT, TANGERINES, AND PUMMELOS GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Non-Regulated Fruit
####### § 905.161 Repacking shipper.

(a) A repacking shipper is a person who repacks and ships citrus fruit grown in the production area in Florida which has been previously inspected and certified as meeting the requirements specified under § 905.52 of the order, and who has obtained a currently valid repacking certificate of privilege issued to him or her by the committee as specified in § 905.162.

(b) Each repacking shipper, to qualify for a repacking certificate of privilege, must notify the committee 10 days prior to his or her first shipment of repacked citrus fruit during a particular fiscal period of his or her intent to ship such citrus fruit, submit an Application for a Repacking Certificate of Privilege form supplied by the committee, and agree to other requirements as set forth in §§ 905.162 and 905.163 inclusive, with respect to such shipments. The repacking shipper shall certify that he or she will only handle previously inspected and certified citrus fruit.

(c) Any repacking shipper who handles citrus fruit shipped under a repacking certificate of privilege must, other order provisions not withstanding, meet the following requirements:

(1) All such citrus fruit must be positive lot identified by the Federal or Federal/State Inspection Service and certified as meeting the applicable requirements for citrus fruit shipped to the domestic market (fruit shipped from the production area to any point outside thereof in the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia of the United States), prior to being repacked and shipped by the repacking shipper. Each such citrus fruit shipment shall be accompanied by a Federal-State manifest that certifies the grade and amount of each load of citrus fruit received, which shall be retained by the repacking shipper.

(2) Be reported as required in § 905.163.

(3) The repacking facility used to repack previously inspected and certified citrus fruit by the repacking shipper shall not have operable equipment to wash, brush, wax, or dry citrus fruit.

(4) All citrus fruit handled by a repacking shipper shall be packed in approved Florida Department of Citrus fruit containers.

(5) Each container shipped with such citrus fruit shall be marked with the repacking shipper's repacking certificate of privilege number.
