
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 905 - ORANGES, GRAPEFRUIT, TANGERINES, AND PUMMELOS GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 905.120 Nomination procedure.

Meetings shall be called by the committee in accordance with the provisions of ยง 905.22, for the purpose of making nominations for members and alternate members of the Citrus Administrative Committee. The manner of nominating members and alternate members of said committee shall be as follows:

(a) At each such meeting the committee's representative shall announce the requirements as to eligibility for voting for nominees and the procedure for voting, and shall explain the duties of the committee.

(b) A chairman and a secretary of each meeting shall be selected.

(c) At each meeting there shall be presented for nomination and there shall be nominated not less than the number of nominees required under the provisions of ยง 905.19, all of whom shall have the qualifications as specified in ยง 905.22.

(d) At the meetings of handlers, any person authorized to represent a handler may cast a ballot for such handler.

(e) At each meeting each eligible person may cast one vote for each of the persons to be nominated to represent the district or group, as the case may be.

(f) Voting may be by written ballot. If written ballots are used, all ballots shall be delivered by the chairman or the secretary of the meeting to the agent of the Secretary. If ballots are not used, the committee's representative shall deliver to the Secretary's agent a listing of each person nominated and a count of the number of votes cast for each nominee for grower member and alternate. Said representative shall also provide the agent the register of eligible voters present at each meeting, a listing of each person nominated, the number of votes cast, and the weight by volume of shipments voted for each nominee for shipper member and alternate.

(g) Up to four grower members may be growers who are also shippers, or growers who are also employees of shippers.
