
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 906 - ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT GROWN IN LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY IN TEXAS
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 906.34 Assessments.

(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who first handles fruit shall, with respect to the fruit so handled by him, pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the committee's expenses.

(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of the committee's recommendations and other available information. Such rates may be applied to specified containers used in the production area.

(c) The rate of assessment may be increased at any time by the Secretary if he finds such increase is necessary in order that the money collected shall be adequate to cover the committee's expenses during a given fiscal period. Such increase shall be applicable to all fruit handled during such fiscal period.

(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functining of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective of whether particular provisions of this part are suspended or become inoperative.
