
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 906 - ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT GROWN IN LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY IN TEXAS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### § 906.120 Fruit exempt from regulations.
####### Special purpose shipments and safeguards.,Provided,

(c)(1) Fruit may be handled for relief or charity exempt from the requirements of §§ 906.34, 906.40, and 906.45 and the regulations issued thereunder:That the fruit shall not be offered for resale, and the handler submits, prior to any such handling, an application to the committee on forms provided by the committee. The application shall contain the name and address of the handler and such other information that the committee may require including, but not limited to, the quantity of fruit involved, license number of the conveyance, and supporting documentation. Approval of the application by the committee shall be evidenced by the issuance of a certificate of privilege to the applicant in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Gift packages of fruit handled pursuant to § 906.41 shall be in containers stamped or marked with the handler's name and address.

(3) Fruit may be handled exempt from regulations issued pursuant to § 906.40(d), if the following conditions are met:

(i) Each fiscal period the handler submits prior to such handling a written application to the committee on forms provided by the committee. The application shall contain the name and address of the handler, and a description of the container or containers in which such fruit would be handled.

(ii) The fruit grades at least U.S. No. 1.
