
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 906 - ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT GROWN IN LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY IN TEXAS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 906.137 Handlers use of identifying marks utilized by the committee in promotional and advertising projects.

(a) Pursuant to ยง 906.37, the identifying marks "Texasweet", "Sweeter By Nature", "Texas Fancy", and "Texas Choice" shall be available to handlers only under the following terms and conditions:

(1) The identifying marks "Texasweet" and "Sweeter by Nature" may severally or jointly be affixed only to containers of grapefruit or to individual grapefruit comprising a lot which grades at least U.S. No. 1.

(2) The identifying mark "Texas Fancy" may be affixed only to containers of grapefruit or to individual grapefruit comprising a lot which grades at least U.S. No. 1 with no more than 40 percent of the surface of the grapefruit, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration.

(3) The identifying mark "Texas Choice" may be affixed only to containers of grapefruit or to individual grapefruit comprising a lot which grades at least U.S. No. 2, with no more than 60 percent of the surface of the grapefruit, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration.

(4) The identifying marks "Texasweet" and "Sweeter by Nature" may severally or jointly be affixed only to containers of oranges or to individual oranges comprising a lot which grades at least U.S. Combination, with not less than 60 percent, by count, of the oranges in each container thereof grading at least U.S. No. 1 and the remainder U.S. No. 2.

(5) The identifying mark "Texas Choice" may be affixed only to containers of oranges or to individual oranges comprising a lot which grades at least U.S. No. 2, except that in determining whether the fruit is reasonably well colored the yellow or orange color must predominate over the green color on at least 75 percent of the fruit surface in the aggregate which is not discolored.

(b) When used herein, terms relating to grade shall have the same meaning as is given to the respective term in the U.S. Standards for Grapefruit (Texas and States other than Florida, California, and Arizona) (7 CFR 51.620 through 51.653) and in the U.S. Standards for Oranges (Texas and States other than Florida, California, and Arizona) (7 CFR 51.680 through 51.714).
