
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 906 - ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT GROWN IN LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY IN TEXAS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 906.151 Reports.

(a) During each fiscal period, each handler shall upon request by the committee file with the committee within the time specified in the request an accurate report showing the total quantity or oranges and the total quantity of grapefruit received by him during such fiscal period or the preceding fiscal period, as requested.

(b) Each handler who sells over 400 pounds of oranges or grapefruit or a combination of both for resale inside the production area shall, for each transaction, report to the committee on a form approved by it the following information:

(1) Name and address of seller;

(2) Name and address of buyer;

(3) Description and quantity of oranges or grapefruit sold;

(4) Destination of fruit;

(5) A statement that the buyer certifies that fruit that is subsequently taken outside the production area for resale will be inspected; and

(6) Such other pertinent information as the committee may require.

(c) The handler shall prepare the report in triplicate. The buyer shall sign the certification statement. The pink copy shall be submitted to the committee within 7 days. The white copy shall be retained by the handler and the canary copy shall be given to the buyer. Such form shall be reviewed by the committee staff and the information compiled for the committee's use.
