
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 906 - ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT GROWN IN LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY IN TEXAS
##### Subpart C - Container and Pack Requirements
###### ยง 906.365 Texas Orange and Grapefruit Regulation 34.

(a) No handler shall handle any variety of oranges or grapefruit grown in the production area unless:

(1) Such oranges grade U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. Combination (with not less than 60 percent, by count, of the oranges in any lot thereof grading at least U.S. No. 1), or U.S. No. 2;

(2) Such oranges are at least pack size 163 with a minimum diameter of 2-3/16 inches;

(3) Such grapefruit grade U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, or U.S. No. 1 Bronze, or meet the quality requirements of "Texas Fancy" or "Texas Choice" as defined in ยง 906.137 of this part;

(4) Such grapefruit are at least pack size 64 with a minimum diameter of 3 inches.

(5) An appropriate inspection certificate has been issued for such fruit within 48 hours prior to the time of shipment. No handler may transport by motor vehicle or cause the transportation of any shipment of fruit for which an inspection certificate is required unless each such shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate applicable thereto, and a copy of such inspection certificate is surrendered upon request to Texas Department of Agriculture personnel designated by the committee.

(6) The fruit meets all the applicable container and pack requirements effective under this marketing order.

(7) Beginning in 1995, this paragraph (a) is suspended each year from July 1 through August 31 of each year.

(b) Terms relating to grade, pack size, and diameter shall mean the same as in the U.S. Standards for Grades of Oranges (Texas and States other than Florida, California, and Arizona) (7 CFR 51.680 through 51.714) or in the U.S. Standards for Grades of Grapefruit (Texas and States other than Florida, California and Arizona) (7 CFR 51.620 through 51.653).
