
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 915 - AVOCADOS GROWN IN SOUTH FLORIDA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Body
####### ยง 915.20 Establishment and membership.
######## Provided,

(a) There is hereby established an Avocado Administrative Committee consisting of nine members, each of whom shall have an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member for whom he is an alternate. Five of the members and their respective alternates shall be growers who shall not be handlers of avocados produced by others or employees of such handlers. Four of the members and their respective alternates shall be handlers or employees of handlers. The five members of the committee who shall be growers who shall not be handlers of avocados produced by others or employees of such handlers are referred to as "grower" members of the committee; and the four members who shall be handlers or employees of handlers are referred to as "handler" members of the committee. Four of the five grower members shall be producers of avocados in District 1, and one grower member shall be a producer of avocados in District 2. Three of the four handler members shall be handlers, or employees of handlers, of avocados in District 1, and one handler member shall be a handler, or an employee of a handler, of avocados in District 2. No handler or handler organization shall be permitted to have more than one handler member and alternate on the committee from each district:That this requirement may be waived by the Secretary in the event that there are not enough persons available to be nominated and selected to serve on the committee.

(b) The committee may be increased by one public member and an alternate. Persons for the public member positions would be nominated by the committee and selected by the Secretary. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall prescribe qualifications, term of office and the procedure for nominating the public member and alternate.
