
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 915 - AVOCADOS GROWN IN SOUTH FLORIDA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Body
####### ยง 915.22 Nomination.
######## Successor members.

(b)(1) The committee shall hold or cause to be held a meeting or meetings of growers and handlers in each district to designate nominees for successor members and alternate members of the committee; or the committee may conduct nominations in Districts 1 and 2 by mail in a manner recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. Such nominations shall be submitted to the Secretary by the committee not later than March 1 of each year. The committee shall prescribe procedural rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this section, for the conduct of nomination.

(2) Only growers may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for grower members and their alternates. Each grower shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee to be elected in the district in which he produced avocados. No grower shall participate in the election of nominees in more than one district in any one fiscal year.

(3) Only handlers may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for handler members and their alternates. Each handler shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee to be elected in the district in which such handler handles avocados. Each vote shall be weighted by the volume of avocados shipped by such handler during the immediately preceding twelve-month period, January through December.
