
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 915 - AVOCADOS GROWN IN SOUTH FLORIDA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 915.41 Assessments.

(a) Each person who first handles avocados shall, with respect to the avocados so handled by him, pay to the committee upon demand such person's pro rata share of the expenses which the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the committee during each fiscal year. Each such person's share of such expenses shall be equal to the ratio between the total quantity of avocados handled by him as the first handler thereof during the applicable fiscal year, and the total quantity of avocados so handled by all persons during the same fiscal year. The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative. If a handler does not pay his assessment within the time prescribed by the committee, the unpaid assessment may be subject to an interest charge at rates prescribed by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.

(b) The Secretary shall fix the rate of assessment per 55-pounds of fruit or equivalent in any container or in bulk, to be paid by each such handler. At any time during or after a fiscal year, the Secretary may increase the rate of assessment, in order to secure sufficient funds to cover any later finding by the Secretary relative to the expense which may be incurred. Such increase shall be applied to all fruit handled during the applicable fiscal year. In order to provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part, the committee may accept the payment of assessments in advance, or borrow money on an emergency short-term basis. The authority of the committee to borrow money is subject to approval of the Secretary and may be used only to meet financial obligations as the obligations occur or to allow the committee to adjust its reserve funds to meet such obligations.
