
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 915 - AVOCADOS GROWN IN SOUTH FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### § 915.150 Reports.

(a) Each handler shall file with the Avocado Administrative Committee, on a weekly basis, a report of all avocados received by him. Such report shall be on forms prescribed by the committee and shall include: (1) The name and address of the handler; (2) weekly period covered by the report; (3) district in which the avocados were received; and (4) the quantity of each variety of avocados received. Each such report shall be filed with the committee not later than one week after the close of business of the last day of the period covered by the report.

(b) Each handler registered with the Avocado Administrative Committee shall render a report to the committee of the disposition of each lot of noncertified avocados removed from the premises of his handling facilities during each week in which any avocados are handled subject to the provisions of §§ 915.41, 915.51, and 915.54, or exemptions therefrom pursuant to § 915.53. Such report shall be on forms prescribed by the committee and shall include: (1) The quantity; (2) purpose for which removed; (3) date of removal; and (4) the name of the person or firm to which the avocados were delivered or consigned. Each such report shall be signed by the handler or his authorized representative, shall cover the period Sunday through Saturday, and shall be placed in the mail not later than one week after the close of business of the Saturday ending the period covered by the report.

(c) Each handler shall render a report to the Avocado Administrative Committee of each lot of noncertified avocados received from a district other than that in which his handling facilities are located. Such report shall be on forms prescribed by the committee and shall include: (1) The name of the handler; (2) the quantity of avocados received; (3) date received; (4) name and address of the person from whom the avocados were purchased; (5) the district from which the avocados were transferred; and (6) the district to which the avocados were transferred. Each such report shall cover the period Sunday through Saturday and shall be placed in the mail not later than one week after the close of business of the Saturday ending the period covered by the report.

(d) Each handler shall, at the end of the day's operation, report to the committee the number of containers of avocados sold and delivered in the State of Florida in the following containers: (1)Bushel, (2)Bushel, and (3)Bushel. Upon request by the committee, such reports shall be confirmed in writing on a weekly basis on a form prescribed by the committee.

(e) At the time of inspection, each handler shall provide to the Federal-State Inspection Service the quantity and size of containers being packed and inspected for the fresh avocado market. In addition, each handler shall provide the number of avocados packed per container (count per container).
