
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 917 - FRESH PEARS AND PEACHES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Bodies
####### ยง 917.34 Duties of Control Committee.

The Control Committee shall have the following duties:

(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any grower or shippers.

(b) To keep minute books and records which will clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of said Control Committee; and such minute books and records shall be subject at any time to examination by the Secretary or by such person as may be designated by the Secretary.

(c) To investigate, from time to time, and assemble data on the growing, shipping, and marketing conditions respecting fruit, as defined in ยง 917.4; to engage in such research and service activities in connection with the handling of such fruit as may be approved, from time to time, by the Secretary; and to furnish to the Secretary such available information as may be requested.

(d) To appoint such employees, agents, and representatives as it may deem necessary, and to determine the compensation and define the duties of each.

(e) To develop and provide the commodity committees data on shared expenses to facilitate equitable apportionment of such expenses in the development of budgets.

(f) To confer with representatives of shippers and growers of fruit produced in other states and areas with respect to the formulation or operation of marketing agreements providing for the regulation of shipments among the several states and areas in the United States in which such fruit is grown.

(g) With the approval of the Secretary establish procedures for the selection and appointment of a public member and alternate to each of the commodity committees.

(h) To establish and define the duties of additional committees or subcommittees to assist in the performance of any of the duties and functions of the Control Committee.

(i) To defend all legal proceedings against any committee members (individually or as members) or any officers or employees of such committees arising out of any act or omission made in good faith pursuant to the provisions of this part.

(j) To cause the books of the Control Committee to be audited by a competent accountant at least once each fiscal period and at such other time or times as the Control Committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request. Such audit shall indicate whether the funds have been received and expended in accordance with the provisions of this part.

(k) To appoint nomination committees if it deems proper for any or each nomination meeting held pursuant to ยง 917.21. Such nomination committees would canvas prospective members and alternate members to the commodity committees to determine their eligibility and willingness to serve and present a slate of nominees to the meeting or meetings. The presentation of nominees by the nominating committee at these meetings shall not exclude the right of any grower to nominate any eligible person at such meeting.
