
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 917 - FRESH PEARS AND PEACHES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Regulation by Grades, Sizes, and Minimum Standards of Quality and Maturity
####### ยง 917.149 Special purpose shipments.

Any person may file a request with the Pear Commodity Committee to transport pears to a packing facility located in the State of Oregon without inspection and certification prior to such transporting. The committee may approve such a request subject to the following terms and conditions:

(a) Approval shall be requested by the person prior to transporting the pears out of the area of production.

(b) Such person shall file with the committee, in such manner as required, reports showing, among other things, the date and quantity of pears comprising each shipment of pears transported to Oregon and the disposition thereof.

(c) All such pears shall be of the person's own production and the packing facility to which they are transported must be owned and operated by that person.

(d) All such pears shall be inspected and certified, as required by ยง 917.45, by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service prior to the time such pears are shipped from the packing facility. Any pears shipped to any such facility which, upon inspection, do not meet the requirements of the then effective grade, size, or quality regulations, may be shipped, or handled, within the State, for consumption by any charitable institution or for distribution by any relief agency or for conversion into products. Prior to any such shipment or handling, there shall first have been submitted to the committee proof satisfactory to the committee that the pears will not be handled contrary to the requirements of the marketing agreement and order. Such proof shall include a written certificate, executed by both the handler and the intended receiver, stating that the pears will not be used for any purpose not authorized by this section.
