
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 920 - KIWIFRUIT GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Administrative Body
###### ยง 920.22 Nomination.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the committee shall hold, or cause to be held, not later than June 1 of each year in which nominations are made, or such other date as may be specified by the Secretary, a meeting or meetings of growers in each district for the purpose of designating nominees to serve as grower members and alternates on the committee. Any such meetings shall be supervised by the committee, which shall prescribe such procedures as shall be reasonable and fair to all persons concerned.

(b) Nominations in any or all districts may be conducted by mail in a manner recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

(c) Only growers may participate in the nomination of grower members and their alternates. Each grower shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each position to be filled in the district in which such grower produces kiwifruit. No grower shall participate in the election of nominees in more than one district in any one fiscal year.

(d) A particular grower shall be eligible for membership as member or alternate member to fill only one position on the committee.

(e) The public member and alternate shall be nominated by the grower members of the committee.
