
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 920 - KIWIFRUIT GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 920.110 Exemptions.
####### Waivers.

(a)A handler may handle kiwifruit without inspection and certification, as prescribed under ยง 920.55, if all shipments made under such waivers comply with all regulations in effect, and all the following conditions are met:

(1) The handler requests the Federal-State Inspection Service to provide inspection during its regular working hours at least 4 hours in advance of the time when inspection is needed. The request need not be in writing but it shall be confirmed immediately in writing by the inspection service.

(2) The Federal-State Inspection Service advises the handler that it is not practicable to provide inspection at the time and place designated by the handler. This advice may be verbal but it shall be confirmed in writing by the Federal-State Inspection Service. A confirmed copy thereof shall be forwarded by the inspection service to the office of the Kiwifruit Administrative Committee.

(3) The Federal-State Inspection Service furnishes the handler with the waiver number which shall cover the kiwifruit on which inspection is requested.

(4) When instructed to do so, the handler plainly and conspicuously marks the end of each container with the letter "W" and the waiver number assigned by the Federal-State Inspection Service. The letter "W" and the number shall not be less than one-half inch in height.
