
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 920 - KIWIFRUIT GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 920.160 Reports.
####### KISS Price/Shipment report.

(d)Each handler who ships 100,000 or more trays, or the equivalent thereof, per season, shall file the KISS Price/Shipment report with the committee. Handlers are not required to report organic kiwifruit shipments on this report. The handler shall file the report weekly following the first week he or she makes shipments and shall continue filing reports until he or she submits a final report for the season. Each such report shall be filed with the committee no later than 5:00 p.m. (the close of business) on the Tuesday immediately following the shipping week. For the purpose of this subsection, the shipping week is defined as Sunday through Saturday. The report shall show:

(1) The company name, contact person, and phone number of the handler;

(2) Weekly period covered by the report;

(3) Total fresh market shipments and gross f.o.b. sales of kiwifruit by pack style and size; and

(4) Total fresh market shipments and gross f.o.b. sales to export markets by pack style and size.

(e) Handlers who file the KISS Price/Shipment report specified in paragraph (d) of this section are exempt from filing the shipping report specified in paragraph (a) of this section and the KISS/Shipment report specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) Each handler shall file annually with the Committee an End-of-Season F.O.B. Sales Report, due within 30 days after such handler has completed current season shipments, reporting gross f.o.b. sales value and number of containers by pack style and size for fresh market shipments for the season. The report shall also show the company name, contact person, and phone number of the handler.

(g) Each handler shall file annually with the Committee a Final Packout Report, due within 30 days after such handler has completed current season shipments, reporting total containers shipped, by pack style for fresh market shipments, for each grower entity during the season. The report shall also include the grower entity and farm name, mailing address, the county in which the farm is located, and total acreage for each reported grower entity. Also, the report shall show the company name, contact person, and phone number of the handler.
