
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 920 - KIWIFRUIT GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 920.122 Nomination procedures.

(a) The manner of nominating grower members and alternate members to the committee shall be as follows:

(1) The committee's mailing of an approved nomination form to all kiwifruit growers of record shall constitute notice of nominations. All eligible kiwifruit growers may nominate themselves or any other eligible kiwifruit grower to vacant committee positions for the nominee's district. Completed nomination forms shall be returned to the office of the committee by a date specified by the committee and approved by an agent of the Secretary. Nomination forms shall provide for names of nominees, as well as the nominating grower's name, address, telephone number, and signature. Incomplete nominations forms will not be considered valid.

(2) For each district involved in the current year's nominations, committee staff, with the Secretary's oversight, shall establish a slate of candidates with the names of all qualified nominees received. Persons submitting invalid nomination forms shall be notified of such by the committee. Within a reasonable time period, a ballot containing a slate of candidates shall be mailed to all growers of record within the respective district represented by such candidates. The committee shall provide a reasonable period of time to growers to cast votes on the candidates and return the completed ballots for tallying.

(3) To be eligible to vote, growers must be producing kiwifruit during the crop year nominations are held and within the district represented by the candidates on the ballot. A grower may only vote for candidates from one district and may only cast one ballot. Growers may also cast votes for eligible candidates who do not appear on the ballots by writing in the name of such candidates on the ballot. Each ballot shall provide for a voter eligibility certification which must include the voter's name, address, telephone number, and signature, as well as the name(s) of all handlers which handled the current season's crop. At the discretion of the Secretary, the ballots may include other background information about each candidate.

(4) In order to be valid, ballots must be executed in accordance with the instructions set forth on the ballot, and are to be returned to the Secretary's agent who will tally the ballots with such assistance from the committee as may be requested by the agent. Such ballots shall be postmarked by a date specified by the committee and approved by an agent of the Secretary.

(5) The names of the persons receiving the highest total number of votes for a particular position shall be submitted to the Secretary as the nominees for such positions. In the event of a tie vote, a ballot containing only the names of the candidates receiving the tied vote shall be mailed to all growers in the affected district.

(b) In the event of a vacancy as specified in ยง 920.26, the committee shall utilize the same procedure as prescribed in ยง 920.122(a)(1) through (a)(5) to fill such vacancy.
