
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 920 - KIWIFRUIT GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 920.303 Container marking regulations.
####### kiwifruit,,unknown variety.

(a) Each package or container of kiwifruit shall bear on at least one outside principal display panel in plain sight and in plain letters, the wordthe name of the variety (if other than the Hayward variety), if known or, when the variety is not known, the words

(b) Each package or container of kiwifruit shall bear on one outside principal display panel in plain sight and in plain letters the name and address (including the city, state, and zip code) of the shipper.

(c) Each package or container of kiwifruit shall bear on one outside principal display panel in plain sight and in plain letters the following information regarding the quantity of kiwifruit packed within the container:

(1) The quantity shall be indicated in terms of count and size for kiwifruit packed in cell compartments, cardboard fillers, or molded trays, and the contents shall conform to the count.

(2) The quantity shall be indicated in terms of the size designation and either the net weight for volume-fill containers packed by weight or the count for volume-fill containers packed by count.

(3) For bulk containers or individual consumer packages not within a master container, the quantity shall be indicated in terms of the size designation and net weight, or in terms of the size designation and count.

(4) Master containers, which hold more than one individual package, must be properly marked with the quantity of the contents. The size designation must also be indicated.

(5) The quantity shall be indicated in terms of either net weight or count (or both) for individual consumer packages within a master container. If count is used, it must be accompanied by the size designation.
