
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 923 - SWEET CHERRIES GROWN IN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling >
###### Administrative Body
####### ยง 923.22 Nomination.
######## Successor members.

(b)(1) The committee shall hold or cause to be held, not later than March 1 of each year, a meeting or meetings of growers and handlers in each district for the purpose of designating nominees for successor members and alternate members of the committee. At each such meeting a chairman and a secretary shall be selected by the growers and handlers eligible to participate therein. The chairman shall announce at the meeting the number of votes cast for each person nominated for member or alternate member and shall submit promptly to the committee a complete report concerning such meeting. The committee shall, in turn, promptly submit a copy of each such report to the Secretary.

(2) Only growers, including duly authorized officers or employees of corporate growers, who are present at such nomination meetings may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for grower members and their alternates. Each grower shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee to be elected in the district in which he produces cherries. No grower shall participate in the election of nominees in more than one district in any one fiscal year. If a person is both a grower and a handler of cherries, such person may vote either as a grower or as a handler but not as both.

(3) Only handlers, including duly authorized officers or employees of handlers, who are present at such nomination meetings, may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for handler members and their alternates. Each handler shall be entitled to cast only one vote for each nominee to be elected in the district in which he handles cherries. No handler shall participate in the election of nominees in more than one district in any one fiscal year. If a person is both a grower and a handler of cherries, such person may vote either as a grower or as a handler but not as both.
