
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 925 - GRAPES GROWN IN A DESIGNATED AREA OF SOUTHEASTERN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Body
####### ยง 925.22 Nomination.
######## Successor members.

(b)The Secretary shall cause to be held, not later than November 15, of each year, meetings of producers and handlers for the purpose of making nominations for members and alternate members of the committee.

(c) Only producers, including duly authorized officers or employees of producers, who are present at such nomination meetings, may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for producer members and their alternates. Each producer entity shall be entitled to cast only one vote. If a person is both a producer and a handler of grapes, such person may participate in both producer and handler nominations.

(d) Only handlers, including duly authorized officers or employees of handlers, who are present at such nomination meetings, may participate in the nomination and election of nominees for handler members and their alternates. Each handler entity shall be entitled to cast only one vote.

(e) One member and alternate member shall be nominated by a vote of both producers and handlers and may be of either group.

(f) The public member and alternate member shall be nominated by the committee. The committee shall prescribe, with the approval of the Secretary, procedures for the nomination of the public member and qualification requirements for such member.
