
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 925 - GRAPES GROWN IN A DESIGNATED AREA OF SOUTHEASTERN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 925.160 Reports.

(a) When requested by the California Desert Grape Administrative Committee, each shipper who ships grapes, shall furnish an end-of-season grape shipment report (CDGAC-3) to the Committee no later than 10 days after the last day of shipment for the season or such later time the Committee deems appropriate. Such reports shall show the reporting period, the name and other identification of the shipper and grower, the invoice number, shipping date, varietal name, shipment destination (city and state), and the number of lugs shipped (pounds).

(b) When requested by the California Desert Grape Administrative Committee (CDGAC), each shipper who ships grapes shall furnish to the committee at such time as the committee shall require, an annual grape acreage survey (CDGAC Form 7), which shall include, but is not limited to, the following: The applicable year in which the report is requested; the names of the shipper (handler) who will handle the grapes and the grower who produces them; the location of each vineyard; the variety or varieties grown in each vineyard; and the bearing, non-bearing, and total acres of each vineyard.

(c) Handlers that donate grapes to charitable organizations pursuant to ยง 925.304(c) shall submit a completed Food Donation Form (CDGAC Form No. 8) to the Committee within 2 days of receipt by the charitable organization. Such form shall include the following: The name of the producer; the name of the handler; loading location and date; inspection location and date; Variety(s) Federal State Inspection Service (FSIS) Certificate number(s); lug weight (pounds); number of lugs; label; signature of person responsible for loading at handling facility; recipient charity name; how many lugs received; signature of responsible charity recipient and date received. Any such grapes shall not be used for resale.
