
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 927 - PEARS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Bodies
####### § 927.20 Establishment and membership.

There are hereby established two committees to administer the terms and provisions of this subpart as specifically provided in §§ 927.20 through 927.35:

(a) A Fresh Pear Committee, consisting of 13 individual persons as its members is established to administer order provisions relating to the handling of pears for the fresh market. Six members of the Fresh Pear Committee shall be growers, six members shall be handlers, and one member shall represent the public. For each member there shall be two alternates, designated as the "first alternate" and the "second alternate," respectively. Each district shall be represented by one grower member and one handler member, except that the Mid-Columbia District and the Wenatchee District shall be represented by two grower members and two handler members.

(b) A Processed Pear Committee consisting of 10 members is established to administer order provisions relating to the handling of pears for processing. Three members of the Processed Pear Committee shall be growers, three members shall be handlers, three members shall be processors, and one member shall represent the public. For each member there shall be two alternates, designated as the "first alternate" and the "second alternate," respectively. District 1, the State of Washington, shall be represented by two grower members, two handler members and two processor members. District 2, the State of Oregon, shall be represented by one grower member, one handler member and one processor member.

(c) The Secretary, upon recommendation of the Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee may reapportion members among districts, may change the number of members and alternates, and may change the composition by changing the ratio of members, including their alternates. In recommending any such changes, the following shall be considered:

(1) Shifts in pear acreage within districts and within the production area during recent years;

(2) The importance of new pear production in its relation to existing districts;

(3) The equitable relationship between membership and districts;

(4) Economies to result for growers in promoting efficient administration due to redistricting or reapportionment of members within districts; and

(5) Other relevant factors.
