
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 927 - PEARS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 927.41 Assessments.

(a) Assessments will be levied only upon handlers who first handle pears. Each handler shall pay assessments on all pears handled by such handler as the pro rata share of the expenses which the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee during a fiscal period. The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee may be required under this part throughout the period such assessments are payable irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.

(b)(1) Based upon a recommendation of the Fresh Pear Committee or other available data, the Secretary shall fix three base rates of assessment for pears that handlers shall pay on pears handled for the fresh market during each fiscal period. Such base rates shall include one rate of assessment for any or all varieties or subvarieties of pears classified as summer/fall; one rate of assessment for any or all varieties or subvarieties of pears, classified as winter; and one rate of assessment for any or all varieties or subvarieties of pears classified as other. Upon recommendation of the Fresh Pear Committee or other available data, the Secretary may also fix supplemental rates of assessment on individual varieties or subvarieties categorized within the assessment classifications in this paragraph (b)(1) to secure sufficient funds to provide for projects authorized under ยง 927.47. At any time during the fiscal period when it is determined on the basis of a Fresh Pear Committee recommendation or other information that different rates are necessary for fresh pears or for any varieties or subvarieties, the Secretary may modify those rates of assessment and such new rate shall apply to any or all varieties or subvarieties that are shipped during the fiscal period for fresh market.

(2) Based upon a recommendation of the Processed Pear Committee or other available data, the Secretary shall fix three base rates of assessment for pears that handlers shall pay on pears handled for processing during each fiscal period. Such base rates shall include one rate of assessment for any or all varieties or subvarieties of pears classified as summer/fall; one rate of assessment for any or all varieties or subvarieties of pears, classified as winter; and one rate of assessment for any or all varieties or subvarieties of pears classified as other. Upon recommendation of the Processed Pear Committee or other available data, the Secretary may also fix supplemental rates of assessment on individual varieties or subvarieties categorized within the assessment classifications defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to secure sufficient funds to provide for projects authorized under ยง 927.47. At any time during the fiscal period when it is determined on the basis of a Processed Pear Committee recommendation or other information that different rates are necessary for pears for processing or for any varieties or subvarieties, the Secretary may modify those rates of assessment and such new rate shall apply to any or all varieties or subvarieties of pears that are shipped during the fiscal period for processing.

(c) Based on the recommendation of the Fresh Pear Committee, the Processed Pear Committee or other available data, the Secretary may establish additional base rates of assessments, or change or modify the base rate classifications defined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(d) The Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee may impose a late payment charge on any handler who fails to pay any assessment within the time prescribed. In the event the handler thereafter fails to pay the amount outstanding, including the late payment charge, within the prescribed time, the Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee may impose an additional charge in the form of interest on such outstanding amount. The Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall prescribe the amount of such late payment charge and rate of interest.

(e) In order to provide funds to carry out the functions of the Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee prior to commencement of shipments in any season, handlers may make advance payments of assessments, which advance payments shall be credited to such handlers and the assessments of such handlers shall be adjusted so that such assessments are based upon the quantity of each variety or subvariety of pears handled by such handlers during such season. Further, payment discounts may be authorized by the Fresh Pear Committee or the Processed Pear Committee upon the approval of the Secretary to handlers making such advance assessment payments.
