
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Body
####### ยง 929.20 Establishment and membership.

(a) There is hereby established a Cranberry Marketing Committee consisting of 13 grower members, and 9 grower alternate members. Except as hereafter provided, members and alternate members shall be growers or employees, agents, or duly authorized representatives of growers.

(b) The committee shall include one public member and one public alternate member nominated by the committee and selected by the Secretary. The public member and public alternate member shall not be a cranberry grower, processor, handler, or have a financial interest in the production, sales, marketing or distribution of cranberries or cranberry products. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall prescribe qualifications and procedures for nominating the public member and public alternate member.

(c) Members shall represent each of the following subdivisions of the production areas in the number specified in Table 1. Members shall reside in the designated district of the production area from which they are nominated and selected. Provided, that there shall also be one member-at-large who may be nominated from any of the marketing order districts.

(d) Disclosure of unregulated production. All grower nominees and alternate grower nominees of the committee shall disclose any financial interest in the production of cranberries that are not subject to regulation by this part.

(e) The committee may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, rules and regulations for the implementation and operation of this section.
