
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Body
####### § 929.22 Nomination.
######## Successor members.

(b)Beginning on June 1 of the even-numbered year following the adoption of this amendment, the committee shall hold nominations in accordance with this section.

(c) Whenever any cooperative marketing organization handles more than fifty percent of the total volume of cranberries produced during the fiscal period in which nominations for membership on the committee are made, such cooperative or growers affiliated therewith shall nominate:

(1) Six qualified persons for members and four qualified persons for alternate members of the committee. These members and alternate members shall be referred to as the major cooperative members and alternate members. Nominee(s) for major cooperative member and major cooperative alternate member shall represent growers from each of the marketing order districts designated in § 929.20.

(2) A seventh major cooperative member shall be referred to as the major cooperative member-at-large. The major cooperative member-at-large may be nominated from any of the marketing order districts.

(3) Six qualified persons for members and four qualified persons for alternate members of the committee shall be nominated by those growers who market their cranberries through entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization. Nominees for member and alternate member representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization shall represent growers from each of the marketing order districts as designated in § 929.20(c).

(d) Whenever any major cooperative marketing organization handles 50 percent or less of the total volume of cranberries produced during the fiscal period in which nominations for membership on the committee are made, the major cooperative or growers affiliated therewith, shall nominate:

(1) Six qualified persons for major cooperative members and four qualified persons for major cooperative alternate members of the committee. Nominees for member and alternate member shall represent growers from each of the marketing order districts as designated in § 929.20(c).

(2) Six qualified persons for members and four qualified persons for alternate members of the committee shall be nominated by those growers who market their cranberries through entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization. Nominees for member and alternate member shall represent growers from each of the marketing order districts as designated in § 929.20(c).

(3) A seventh member nominee shall be referred to as the member-at-large representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization. The member-at-large may be nominated from any of the marketing order districts.

(e) Nominations of qualified member nominees representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization shall be made through a call for nominations sent to all eligible growers residing within each of the marketing order districts. The call for such nominations shall be by such means as are recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

(1) The names of all eligible nominees from each district received by the committee, by such date and in such form as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary, will appear on the nomination ballot for that district.

(2) Election of the member nominees and alternate member nominees shall be conducted by mail ballot.

(3) Eligible growers shall participate in the election of nominees from the district in which they reside.

(4) When voting for member nominees, each eligible grower shall be entitled to cast one vote on behalf of him/herself.

(5) The nominee receiving the highest number of votes cast in districts two and four shall be the member nominee representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization from that district. The nominee receiving the second highest number of votes cast in districts two and four shall be the alternate member representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization from that district.

(6) The nominees receiving the highest and second highest number of votes cast in districts one and three shall be the member nominees representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization from that district. The nominee receiving the third highest number of votes cast in districts one and three shall be the alternate member representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization from that district.

(f) Nominations for the member-at-large representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization shall be made through a call for nominations sent to all eligible growers residing within the marketing order districts. The call for such nominations shall be by such means as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

(1) Election of the member-at-large shall be held by mail ballot sent to all eligible growers in the marketing order districts by such date and in such form as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

(2) Eligible growers casting ballots may vote for a member-at-large nominee from marketing order districts other than where they produce cranberries.

(3) When voting for the member-at-large nominee, each eligible grower shall be entitled to cast one vote on behalf of him/herself.

(4) The nominee receiving the highest number of votes cast shall be designated the member-at-large nominee representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization. The nominee receiving the second highest number of votes cast shall be declared the alternate member-at-large nominee representing entities other than the major cooperative marketing organization.

(g) The committee may request that growers provide their federal tax identification number(s) in order to determine voting eligibility.

(h) The names and addresses of all successor member nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary for selection no later than July 1 of each even-numbered year.

(i) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may issue rules and regulations to carry out the provisions or to change the procedures of this section.
