
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Regulations
####### ยง 929.59 Excess cranberries.

(a) Whenever the Secretary establishes an allotment percentage pursuant to ยง 929.52, handlers shall be notified by the committee of such allotment percentage and shall withhold from handling such cranberries in excess of the total of their growers' annual allotments obtained during such period. Such withheld cranberries shall be defined as "excess cranberries" after all unused allotment has been allocated.

(1) Excess cranberries received by a handler shall be made available for inspection by the committee or its representatives from the time they are received until final disposition is completed. Such excess cranberries shall be identified in such manner as the committee may specify in its rules and regulations with the approval of the Secretary.

(2) All matters dealing with handler-held excess cranberries shall be in accordance with such rules and regulations established by the committee, with the approval of the Secretary.

(b) Prior to January 1, or such other date as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary, handlers holding excess cranberries shall submit to the committee a written plan outlining procedures for the systematic disposal of such cranberries in the outlets prescribed in ยง 929.61.

(c) Prior to March 1, or such other date as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary, all excess cranberries shall be disposed of pursuant to ยง 929.61.
