
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 929.110 Transfers or sales of cranberry acreage.

(a) Sales or transfers of cranberry acreage shall be reported by the transferor and transferee to the committee, in writing, on forms provided by the committee. Completed forms shall be sent to the committee office not later than 30 days after the transaction has occurred.

(b) Upon transfer of all or a portion of a growers' acreage, the committee shall be provided with certain information on the forms it will provide to the parties. The transferor and transferee must provide the following information:

(1) Crop records for the acreage involved;

(2) Annual production and sales for each crop year on the acreage involved, either in total, or for each individual parcel; and

(3) Such other information as the committee deems necessary.

(c) Cranberry acreage sold or transferred shall be recognized in connection with the issuance of sales history as follows:

(1) If a grower sells all of the acreage comprising the entity, all prior sales history shall accrue to the purchaser;

(2) If a grower sells only a portion of the acreage comprising the entity from which prior sales have been made, the purchaser and the seller must agree as to the amount of sales history attributed to each portion and shall provide, on a form provided by the committee, sufficient information so that sales are shown separately by crop year. However, the sales history attributed to each portion shall not exceed the total sales history, as determined by the committee, for such acreage at the time of transfer.

(d) During a year of regulation, all transfers of growers' sales histories for partial or total leases of acreage shall be received in the Committee office by close of business on July 31.
