
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 929.149 Determination of sales history.

A sales history for each grower shall be computed by the Committee in the following manner when a producer allotment volume regulation is in effect.

(a) For each grower with acreage with 6 or more years of sales history, a new sales history shall be computed using an average of the highest 4 of the most recent 6 years of sales. If the grower has acreage with 5 years of sales history and such acreage was planted more than 6 years ago, a new sales history shall be computed by averaging the highest 4 of the 5 years.

(b) For growers whose acreage has 5 years of sales history and was planted 6 years ago or later, the sales history shall be computed by averaging the highest 4 of the 5 years and shall be adjusted as provided in paragraph (d). For growers whose acreage has 4 years of sales history, the sales history shall be computed by averaging all 4 years and shall be adjusted as provided in paragraph (d). For growers whose acreage has 1 to 3 years of sales history, the sales history shall be computed by dividing the total years sales by 4 and shall be adjusted as provided in paragraph (d).

(c) For growers with acreage with no sales history or for the first harvest of re-planted acres, the sales history will be 75 barrels per acre for acres planted or re-planted 1 year ago and first harvested in the current crop year and 156 barrels per acre for acres planted or re-planted 2 years ago and first harvested in the current crop year.

(d) In addition to the sales history computed in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, additional sales history shall be assigned to growers with acreage planted in the last 6 years. The additional sales histories depending on the date the acreage is planted are shown in Table 1.
