
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 929.158 Exemptions.

If fresh and organically-grown cranberries are exempted from the volume regulation as recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary, the following provisions to these exemptions shall apply:

(a) Sales of packed-out cranberries intended for sales to consumers in fresh form shall be exempt from volume regulation provisions. Fresh cranberries are also sold dry in bulk boxes generally weighing less than 30 pounds. Fresh cranberries intended for retail markets are not sold wet. If any such fresh cranberries are diverted into processing outlets, the exemption no longer applies. Growers who intend to handle fresh fruit shall notify the committee of their intent to sell over 300 barrels of fresh fruit.

(b) Sales of organically-grown cranberries are exempt from volume regulation provisions. In order to receive an exemption for organic cranberry sales, such cranberries must be certified as such by a third party organic certifying organization acceptable to the committee.

(c) Handlers shall qualify for the exemptions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section by filing the amount of packed-out fresh or organic cranberry sales on the grower acquisition form.
