
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 929.157 Handler diversion.
####### Request for review.

(c)(1) If a handler is dissatisfied with a determination made by the Committee which affects such handler, the handler may submit to the Committee within 30 days after receipt of the Committee's determination, a request for a review by an appeals subcommittee composed of two independent growers and two cooperative representatives, as well as a public member. The appeals subcommittee shall be appointed by the Committee chairperson. The handler may forward with the request any pertinent materials for consideration of the appeal.

(2) The subcommittee shall review the information submitted by the handler and render a decision within 30 days of receipt of such appeal. The subcommittee shall notify the handler of its decision, accompanied by the reasons for its conclusions and findings.

(3) The handler may further appeal to the Secretary, within 15 days after notification of the subcommittee's findings, if such handler is not satisfied with the appeals subcommittee's decision. The Committee shall forward a file to the Secretary with all pertinent information related to the handler's appeal. The Secretary shall inform the handler and all interested parties of the Secretary's decision. All decisions by the Secretary are final.
