
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 929 - CRANBERRIES GROWN IN STATES OF MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, CONNECTICUT, NEW JERSEY, WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND LONG ISLAND IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
##### Subpart C - Assessment Rate
###### ยง 929.253 Marketable quantity and allotment percentage for the 2018-19 crop year.

(a) The marketable quantity for the 2018-19 crop year is set at 7.275 million barrels and the allotment percentage is designated at 75 percent.

(b) Organically grown fruit shall be exempt from the volume regulation requirements of this section. Small handlers who processed less than 125,000 barrels during the 2017-18 fiscal year are exempt from the volume regulation requirements of this section. Any handler who did not have carryover inventory at the end of the 2017-18 fiscal year is also exempt from the volume regulation requirements of this section.

(c) Handlers have the option to process up to 50 percent of the excess cranberries received over their growers' allotments into dehydrated cranberries or other processed products. Handlers utilizing this option shall divert an amount of 2018-19 processed products equivalent to the volume of excess cranberries processed as provided for in ยง 929.107. The remaining volume of excess cranberries must be diverted as whole fruit.
