
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Body
####### ยง 930.23 Nomination and election.
######## Election.

(c)(1) After receiving nominations, the Secretary or the Board shall distribute ballots via the U.S. Postal Service or other means, as determined by the Secretary, to all eligible growers and handlers containing the names of the nominees by district for the respective seats on the Board, excluding the public voting member seat. The ballots will clearly indicate that growers and handlers may only rank or otherwise vote for nominees in their own district.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, only growers, including duly authorized officers or employees of growers, who are eligible to serve as grower members of the Board shall participate in the election of grower members and alternate grower members of the Board. No grower shall participate in the election of Board members in more than one district during any fiscal period. If a grower produces cherries in more than one district, the grower must vote in the same district in which he or she chose to participate in the nominations process under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. However, if the grower did not participate in the nominations process, he or she may select in which district he or she wishes to vote and shall notify the Secretary or the Board of such selection.

(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, only handlers, including duly authorized officers or employees of handlers, who are eligible to serve as handler members of the Board shall participate in the election of handler members and alternate handler members of the Board. No handler shall participate in the election of Board members in more than one district during any fiscal period. If a handler does handle cherries in more than one district, he or she must vote in the same district in which the handler elected to participate in the nominations process under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. However, if a handler did not participate in the nominations process, that handler may select in which district he or she chooses to vote and shall notify the Secretary or the Board of such selection. If a person is a grower and a grower-handler only because some or all of his or her cherries were custom packed, but he or she does not own or lease and operate a processing facility, such person may vote only as a grower.
