
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 930.42 Accounting.
######## Provided,

(a) If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over all or any portion of such excess into subsequent fiscal periods as a reserve. Such reserve funds may be used to cover any expenses authorized by this part, and to cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. If any such excess is not retained in a reserve, it shall be refunded proportionately to the handlers from whom the excess was collected. Without an additional reserve level approved by the Secretary, the amount held in reserve may not exceed approximately one year's operational expenses. Upon termination of this part, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such a manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate:That to the extent practicable, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.

(b) All funds received by the Board pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purpose specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the Board and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.
