
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Regulations
####### ยง 930.52 Establishment of districts subject to volume regulations.

(a) The districts in which handlers shall be subject to any volume regulations implemented in accordance with this part shall be those districts in which the average annual production of cherries over the prior 3 years has exceeded 6 million pounds. Handlers shall become subject to volume regulation implemented in accordance with this part in the crop year that follows any 3-year period in which the 6-million pound average production requirement is exceeded in that district.

(b) Handlers in districts which are not subject to volume regulation would only be so regulated to the extent that they handled cherries which were grown in a district subject to regulation as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. In such a case, the handler must place in inventory reserve pursuant to ยง 930.55 or ยง 930.57 or divert pursuant to ยง 930.59 the required restricted percentage of the crop originating in the regulated district.

(c) Handlers in districts not meeting the production requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section in a given year would not be subject to volume regulation in the next crop year.

(d) Any district producing a crop which is less than 50 percent of the average annual processed production in that district in the previous five years would be exempt from any volume regulation if, in that year, a restricted percentage is established.

(e) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish rules and regulations necessary and incidental to the administration of this section.
