
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Regulations
####### § 930.55 Primary inventory reserves.
######## Provided,

(b) The form of the cherries, frozen, canned in any form, dried, or concentrated juice, placed in the primary inventory reserve is at the option of the handler. The product(s) placed by the handler in the primary inventory reserve must have been produced in either the current or the preceding two crop years. Except as may be limited by § 930.50(i) or as may be permitted pursuant to §§ 930.59 and 930.62, such inventory reserve portion shall be equal to the sum of the products obtained by multiplying the weight or volume of the cherries in each lot of cherries acquired during the fiscal period by the then effective restricted percentage fixed by the Secretary;That in converting cherries in each lot to the form chosen by the handler, the inventory reserve obligations shall be adjusted in accordance with uniform rules adopted by the Board in terms of raw fruit equivalent.

(c) Inventory reserve cherries shall meet such standards of grade, quality, or condition as the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish. All such cherries shall be inspected by USDA. A certificate of such inspection shall be issued which shall show, among other things, the name and address of the handler, the number and type of containers in the lot, the grade of the product, the location where the lot is stored, identification marks (can codes or lot stamp), and a certification that the cherries meet the prescribed standards. Promptly after inspection and certification, each such handler shall submit, or cause to be submitted, to the Board, at the place designated by the Board, a copy of the certificate of inspection issued with respect to such cherries.

(d) Handlers shall be compensated for inspection costs incurred on cherries placed in the primary inventory reserve. All reporting of cherries placed in, rotated in and out, or released from an inventory reserve shall be in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary. The Board could, with the approval of the Secretary, also limit the number of inspections of reserve cherries being rotated into inventory reserves for which the Board would be financially liable.

(e) Except as provided in § 930.54, handlers may not sell inventory reserve cherries prior to their official release by the Board. Handlers may rotate cherries in their inventory reserves with prior notification to the Board. All cherries rotated into the inventory reserve must meet the applicable inspection requirements.
