
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 930.100 Grower diversion certificates.
######## Calculation of diversion amounts.

(c)The weight of cherries diverted and left unharvested shall be calculated by the Board after growers furnish the Board with the necessary information concerning their production. After verification of the volume of cherries diverted, the Board shall calculate the amounts of grower diversion tonnage to be placed on the diversion certificates and issue such certificates to growers. Such amounts shall be determined as follows:

(1) For whole block diversion, the weight of a harvested sample of 5 percent of each diverted block, provided by the grower, will be used to calculate the total volume of diverted cherries to be credited on the diversion certificate. For example, a grower farms 1,000 acres and elects to whole block divert a 200 acre block. If 5 percent of the harvested trees in the block diverted yield 80,000 pounds of cherries, the grower would receive a diversion certificate for 1,600,000 pounds (80,000 pounds divided by 5 percent (.05) yields 1,600,000 pounds). The rest of the block would remain unharvested.

(2) For random row diversion, such estimated volume would be calculated by applying the percentage of the grower's production diverted to the actual average volume per acre of cherries produced and harvested. For example, a grower farms 1,000 acres and elects to divert 20 percent of the harvestable acreage (200 acres). The grower harvests the remaining 800 acres and obtains 6,400,000 pounds of cherries, which represents a yield per acre of 8,000 pounds. Such grower would receive a diversion certificate for 1,600,000 pounds of cherries (8,000 lbs multiplied by the 20 percent of the total acreage diverted; in this instance, 200 acres).
