
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.158 Grower diversion and grower diversion certificates.
####### Application and mapping for diversion.

(b)Any grower desiring to divert cherries using methods other than in-orchard tank shall submit a map of the orchard or orchards to be diverted, along with a completed Grower Diversion Application, to the Board by April 15 of each crop year. The application includes a statement which must be signed by the grower which states that the grower agrees to comply with the regulations established for a tart cherry diversion program. Each map shall contain the grower's name and number assigned by the Board, the grower's address, block name or number when appropriate, location of orchard or orchards and other information which may be necessary to accomplish the desired diversion. On or before July 1, the grower should inform the Board of such grower's intention to divert in-orchard and what type of diversion will be used. The four types of diversion are random row diversion, whole block diversion, partial block diversion and in-orchard tank diversion. A grower who informs the Board about the type of diversion he or she wishes to use by July 1 can elect to use any diversion method or combination of diversion methods. Only random row or in-orchard tank diversion methods may be used if the Board is not so informed by July 1. Trees that are four years or younger do not qualify for diversion. Annual resubmissions of either the map or application will no longer be required. Growers will only submit a new application and map if they are participating in the grower diversion program for the first time. Growers will need only to submit a new orchard map if he/she adds a new block of trees to the orchard or changes the orchard layout differently from the map previously submitted to the Board.
