
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.158 Grower diversion and grower diversion certificates.
####### Grower diversion certificates.

(a)The Board may issue diversion certificates to growers in districts subject to volume regulation who have voluntarily elected to divert in the orchard all or a portion of their tart cherry production which otherwise, upon delivery to handlers, would become restricted percentage cherries. Growers may offer the diversion certificate to handlers in lieu of delivering cherries. Handlers may redeem diversion certificates with the Board through June 30 of each crop year. After June 30 of the crop year that crop year's grower diversion certificates are no longer valid. Cherries that have reached a harvestable, marketable condition will be eligible for diversion. Diversion will not be granted to growers whose fruit was destroyed before it set and/or matured on the tree, or whose fruit is unmarketable. If marketable fruit were to be damaged or destroyed by acts of nature such as storms or hail diversion credit could be granted. To be considered marketable for the purposes of this section, sampled fruit may not exceed a 5 percent tolerance for insects or a 7 percent tolerance for rot.
