
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.159 Handler diversion.
####### Board notification and handler plan.

(b)Any handler intending to divert cherries or cherry products pursuant to ยง 930.59 of the order (except through exempt uses under ยง 930.62 of the order) must notify the Board of such intent and provide a plan by October 1 which shows how the handler intends to meet the restricted percentage obligation, except that, for the 1997-98 season only, the deadline is February 5, 1998. The Board may extend this date in individual cases pursuant to a written request showing good cause why the plan cannot be provided by the due date. A handler will have one year to fulfill such plan. The details of the plan shall include, but not be limited to, the name and address of the handler, the total product processed at-plant, product diverted at-plant, in-orchard diversion certificates to be redeemed, anticipated donations to charitable outlets, disposition to exempt outlets or uses and detailed plans for how and where such disposition will be made, and inventory reserve amount. It shall also contain an agreement that the proposed diversion is to be carried out under the supervision of the Board and that the cost of such supervision is to be paid by the handler. Supervision of diversion by means other than destruction of the cherries at a handler's facility will be subject to supervision as found necessary by the Board. USDA inspectors or Board employees will supervise diversion of cherry products at the current hourly rate under USDA's inspection fee schedule (7 CFR 52.42). Any cherries not diverted in accordance with the handler's plan will be placed into the secondary inventory reserve or the primary inventory reserve if a secondary inventory reserve has not been established.
