
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.158 Grower diversion and grower diversion certificates.
####### Whole block diversion.

(2)Based on maps supplied by the grower, a sampling procedure will be used to determine the amount of cherries in the orchard to be diverted. A block is defined as rows that run in the same direction, are similar in age, and have definable boundaries. The Board will require a number of tree sites to be sampled depending on the size of the block. A tree site is a planted tree or an area where a tree was planted and may have been uprooted or died. If a block has 5 rows or less, or 200 or less tree sites, 3 rows would be randomly chosen to be sampled, if a block has 6 to 15 rows, or 201-400 tree sites, 4 rows would be randomly chosen to be sampled, and if a block has 16 or more rows and greater than 400 tree sites, 5 rows would be randomly chosen to be sampled. The Board's compliance officer will apply the sampling procedure (based on the number of rows or the number of tree sites) which results in the fewest number of tree sites required to be sampled. From each of the rows to be sampled, ten contiguous tree sites will be sampled. Only trees more than five years old will be harvested for the sample. For example, if it is determined that five rows are to be sampled, 10 contiguous tree sites in each of the five rows will be subject to harvest. Trees within the 10 sites which are more than five years old will be harvested. The harvested tonnage will be converted to a volume that represents the entire block of cherries. If, for example, a total of 4,600 pounds is harvested from the sample tree sites and this total is divided by 50 tree sites a yield of 92 pounds per tree site is obtained. To find the total yield for the block, the 92 pounds per tree site yield is multiplied by the 880 tree sites that were mapped in the block and that equals 80,960 pounds for that block. The compliance officer would be allowed access to the block to oversee the sampling process and to confirm that the block has been diverted.
