
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.158 Grower diversion and grower diversion certificates.
####### Compliance.

(c)Growers who voluntarily participate in the grower diversion program must sign and file with the Board a Grower Diversion Application. By signing the application, a grower agrees to the terms and conditions of the grower diversion program as contained in these regulations. To be eligible to receive diversion credit, growers voluntarily choosing to divert cherries must meet the following terms and conditions:

(1) In order to receive a certificate, a grower must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Board, that rows or trees which were selected for diversion were not harvested. Trees four years old or younger do not qualify for diversion.

(2) The grower must furnish the Board with a total harvested production amount so the Board can calculate the amount of grower diversion tonnage to be placed on the diversion certificate. The Board will confirm the grower's production amount with information provided by handlers (to which the grower delivers cherries) on Board form Number Two.

(3)(i) The grower must agree to allow a Board compliance officer to visit the grower's orchard to confirm that diversion has actually taken place. If the terms and conditions for whole block, partial block or in-orchard tank diversion are not completed, the Board shall not issue the grower a diversion certificate.

(ii) If a grower who chooses random row diversion harvests rows that were designated not to be harvested, the grower should inform the Board immediately of the error. The grower will then be required to divert twice the amount (rows or trees) incorrectly harvested to correct the mistake. The grower will still receive a diversion certificate equal to the original requested amount. However, in instances where a grower is at the end of harvesting the orchard and fails to divert a complete block or specified rows, the Board shall multiply by two the difference between the original diversion amount and the actual diverted amount. The Board shall subtract that amount from the diversion application amount. Thus, the grower would receive a grower diversion certificate equal to a portion of the originally requested amount. If the grower does not inform the Board of such errors, the grower will not receive a diversion certificate.
