
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.162 Exemptions.
####### Obtaining approval for exempt uses.

(c)In order to receive exemptions for cherries or cherry products utilized for exempt purposes, handlers must apply to the Board for a new exemption or for renewal of an existing exemption by November 1 for the next succeeding year, except for the 1997 year only, handlers may apply through February 5, 1998. A handler shall have one crop year to dispose of cherries or cherry products to exempt outlets approved by the Board, unless granted a renewal. Handlers applying to the Board for a new exemption or for renewal of an existing exemption are subject to the following conditions:

(1) When applying to the Board for an exemption for new product development, handlers must detail the nature of their new product, how it differs from current, existing products and the anticipated short and long term sales volume for the exemption. It will be the Board staff's responsibility to analyze and investigate any request and upon completion of that analysis authorize or deny the exemption.

(2) When applying to the Board for an exemption for new market development, handlers must detail the nature of their new market, how it differs from current, existing markets and the anticipated short and long term sales volume for the exemption. It will be the Board staff's responsibility to analyze and investigate any request and upon completion of that analysis authorize or deny the exemption.

(3) When applying to the Board for an exemption for the use of domestic tart cherry products in markets not currently served by the domestic industry, handlers may provide a verifiable statement from the buyer of its intent to use domestic tart cherry products to the Board staff for review in lieu of review by the subcommittee as detailed in paragraph (d) of this section. A verifiable statement is defined as a written statement from the buyer that it will use domestic tart cherries in products or markets not currently supplied by domestic sources, which will be reviewed and documented by Board staff.

(4) When applying to the Board for an exemption for the development of export markets for tart cherries or cherry products (including juice and juice concentrate) in countries other than Canada and Mexico, including the expansion of sales in existing export markets, handlers must detail the nature of their product, specify whether such product differs from current products being sold in export markets, and estimate the anticipated short and long term sales volumes for the requested exemption.

(5) When applying to the Board for an exemption for experimental purposes, handlers must indicate the preliminary and/or developmental experimental activity. Such experimental purposes should be intended to result in new products, new applications and/or new markets for existing tart cherry products. Any exemption for experimental work shall be limited in scope, duration and volume which the proposing party shall specify at the time a request for exemption is made. In no case shall an exemption for experimental purposes last longer than five years or exceed 100,000 pounds raw product equivalent per handler of tart cherries during the duration of the experiment.

(6) To be eligible for new product, new market development and market expansion diversion exemptions, a handler must demonstrate involvement in the activity for which the exemptions are sought. The requesting handler must either be or have been involved in development of the product, the market, or market expansion activities for which the exemptions are sought or have had financial involvement in the activities. This involvement must be demonstrated and established to the satisfaction of the Board by the handler requesting the exemptions.
