
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.170 Sales and inventory report.

(a) Handlers shall submit to the Board a sales and inventory report for the reporting period ending November 30, February 28, May 31, and June 30 of each crop year. Handlers shall file such reports by the tenth day of the month following the reporting period, December 10, March 10, June 10, and July 10, respectively. Should the filing due date fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the due date. Such reports shall be reported to the Board on CIAB Form 3 and include:

(1) The name, address, telephone number, and identifying number of the handler;

(2) The reporting period covered by the report;

(3) The form, type, and unit size for each product;

(4) The total beginning of year inventory for each product;

(5) The packed amount for each product;

(6) Total inter-handler transfers, and total volume repackaged or remanufactured for each product, year-to-date;

(7) Total sales outside the industry for each product, year-to-date;

(8) The amount of ending inventory for each product, year-to-date;

(9) List of inter-handler transfers, both in and out, during the reporting period including:

(i) Name of the selling handler;

(ii) Name of the receiving handler; and

(iii) Form, type, number of units.

(10) List of repacks and remanufactures during the reporting period including:

(i) Form, type, and number of units of source products; and

(ii) Form, type, and number of units of end products.

(b) The amount of inventory for each product over 5 years old shall be reported annually on the sales and inventory report for the reporting period ending May 31. Product age is based on the crop year in which the current product was processed or remanufactured.
