
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 930 - TART CHERRIES GROWN IN THE STATES OF MICHIGAN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, OREGON, UTAH, WASHINGTON, AND WISCONSIN
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 930.163 Deferment of restricted obligation.

A handler may obtain a surety bond on restricted percentage cherries to be posted to temporarily defer the date that inventory reserves must be held. The surety bond must be posted at two times the market value of the quantity of cherries for which the holding obligation is being deferred. The Board can temporarily defer the date inventory reserve cherries must be held to any date requested by the handler. However, this date shall not be later than 60 days prior to the end of the crop year. The deferment shall be conditioned on the execution and delivery by the handler to the Board of a written undertaking within 30 days after the Secretary announces the final restricted percentage under ยง 930.51. The written undertaking (required to be secured by a bond or bonds with a surety or sureties acceptable to the Board) must guarantee that on or prior to the deferment date requested by the handler the handler will have fully satisfied the restricted percentage obligation. On or prior to the deferment date requested by the handler, the handler will have to fully satisfy the restricted percentage obligation. In the event, a handler has posted the surety bond, reached the deferment date deadline and does not have cherries in the inventory reserve to cover his/her inventory reserve obligation, the bond will be forfeited to the Board. The Board will then buy cherries to fulfill that handler's obligation.
