
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Olive Administrative Committee
####### ยง 932.25 Establishment and membership.
######## Provided,

A California Olive Committee consisting of 16 members, is hereby established to administer the terms and provisions of this part. Each member shall have an alternate who meets the same qualifications as the member. Eight of the members and their alternates shall be producers or officers or employees of producers, and eight of the members and their alternates shall be handlers or directors, officers, or employees of handlers. The eight members of the committee who are producers or officers or employees of producers are referred to in this subpart as "producer members" of the committee; and the eight members of the committee who are handlers or directors, officers, or employees of handlers are referred to in this subpart as "handler members" of the committee. The committee may be increased by one public member who shall not be a producer or handler of olives nor an officer or employee or director of any producer or handler of olives. District representation of the producer members shall be two from District 1, four from District 2, and two from District 3. Allocation of the handler members shall be four members to represent cooperative marketing organizations, herein referred to as "cooperative handlers", and four members to represent handlers who are not cooperative marketing organizations, herein referred to as "independent handlers":That whenever during the crop year in which nominations are made and in the preceding crop year, the cooperative handlers or the independent handlers handled as first handler 65 percent or more of the total quantity of olives so handled by all handlers, allocation shall be five members to represent the group which so handled 65 percent or more of such olives and three members to represent the group which handled 35 percent or less. The public member and alternate public member shall be selected from any place within the area. The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, provide such other allocation of producer or handler membership, or both, as may be necessary to assure equitable representation.
