
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 932.39 Assessments.

(a) As each handler's pro rata share of the expenses which the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the committee during a fiscal year, each handler who first handles olives during the current crop year shall pay to the committee, upon demand, assessments less any amounts which may be credited pursuant to ยง 932.45, on all olives to be used in the production of packaged olives, including olives to be used in canned ripe olives of the "tree-ripened" type or green olives when such are regulated as packaged olives pursuant to ยง 932.52. The payment of assessments for maintenance and functioning of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.

(b) The Secretary shall fix the rate of assessment to be paid by each such handler during a fiscal year in an amount designed to secure sufficient funds to cover the expenses which may be incurred during such period. At any time during or after the fiscal year, the Secretary may increase the rate of assessment in order to secure sufficient funds to cover any later finding by the Secretary relative to the expenses which may be incurred. Such increase shall be applied to all olives handled during the applicable crop year. In order to provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part during the first part of a fiscal year before sufficient operation income is available from assessments, the committee may accept the payment of assessments in advance, and may also borrow money for such purpose.

(c) Any assessment not paid by a handler within a period of time prescribed by the committee may be subject to an interest or late payment charge, or both. The period of time, rate of interest and late payment charge shall be as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. Subsequent to such approval, all assessments not paid within the presecribed period of time shall be subject to an interest or late payment charge or both.
