
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Research and Development
####### ยง 932.45 Production research and marketing research and development projects.
######## Provided,

(1) The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish or provide for the establishment of production research, and marketing research and development projects designed to assist, improve or promote the marketing, distribution, and consumption or efficient production of California olives. Such projects may provide for any marketing research and development projects designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, and consumption or efficient production of California olives. Such projects may provide for any form of marketing promotion including paid advertising. The expenses of such research and projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to ยง 932.39 or from voluntary contributions. Voluntary contributions may be accepted by the committee only to pay the expenses of such projects:That the committee shall retain complete control over the use of such contributions which shall be free from any encumbrances.

(2) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may provide for crediting a portion of a handler's direct expenditures for paid brand advertising for olives. Such expenditures may include, but are not limited to, money spent for advertising space in magazines, newspapers, outdoor media and transit or time charges for radio and television. No handler shall receive credit in excess of such handler's pro rata share of the total monies allotted by the committee for brand advertising credit. Each advertisement must be published, broadcast or displayed during the fiscal year for which credit is requested. Before any creditable brand advertising may be undertaken pursuant to this paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Secretary, upon recommendation by the committee, shall prescribe appropriate rules and regulations as are necessary to effectively regulate such activity.

(b) In recommending marketing research and development projects pursuant to this section, the committee shall give consideration to the following factors:

(1) The expected supply of olives in relation to market requirements;

(2) The supply situation among competing areas and commodities; and

(3) The need for marketing research with respect to any marketing development activity and the need for a coordinated effort with USDA's Plentiful Food Program.

(c) In recommending production research projects pursuant to this section, the committee shall give consideration to the extent and need for assistance to, and improvement of California olive production.

(d) If the committee should conclude that a program of production research, marketing research, or development should be undertaken or continued pursuant to this section in any fiscal year, it shall submit the following for the approval of the Secretary:

(1) Its recommendations as to funds to be obtained pursuant to ยง 932.39 or voluntary contributions;

(2) Its recommendations as to any production research or marketing research project; and

(3) Its recommendation as to promotion activity and paid advertising.

(e) The committee shall, as soon as practicable, prepare and mail reports on current production research and marketing research and development projects to the Secretary and make a copy of such reports available at the committee office for examination by producers, handlers, or other interested parties.
