
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Regulations
####### ยง 932.52 Outgoing regulations.
######## Provided,,Provided further,

(3) Subject to the provisions set forth in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and ยง 932.51(a) (1) and (2), processed olives to be used in the production of canned pitted ripe olives, other than those of the "tree-ripened" type, shall meet the same requirements as prescribed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section:That olives smaller than those so prescribed, as recommended annually by the committee and approved by the Secretary, may be authorized for limited use but any such limited use size olives so used shall be not smaller than the following applicable minimum size:That each such minimum size may also include a size tolerance (specified as a percent) as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

(i) Variety Group 1 olives, except the Ascolano, Barouni, and St. Agostino varieties, of a size which individually weighpound;

(ii) Variety Group 1 olives of the Ascolano, Barouni, or St. Agostino varieties, of a size which individually weighpound;

(iii) Variety Group 2 olives, except the Obliza variety, of a size which individually weighpound;

(iv) Variety Group 2 olives of the Obliza variety, of a size which individually weighpound.

(4) The Secretary may, upon recommendation of the committee, restrict the total quantity of limited use size olives for limited use during any crop year. Such restricted quantity shall be apportioned among the handlers by applying a percentage, established annually by the Secretary upon recommendation by the committee, to each handler's total receipts of limited use size olives during such crop year.

(5) Canned ripe olives of the "tree-ripened" type and green olives shall meet such grade, size, and pack requirements as may be established by the Secretary based upon the recommendation of the committee or other available information.

(6) The size designations used in this section mean the size designations described in (a)(1)(ii) of ยง 932.51.

(7) For the purposes of this part the committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, specify the styles of olives, including the requirements with respect thereto, for limited use.
