
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 932.152 Outgoing regulations.
####### Size designations.

(f)(1) In lieu of the size designations specified in ยง 932.52(a)(2), except as provided in ยง 932.51(a) (1) and (2), canned whole ripe olives, other than those of the "tree-ripened" type, shall conform to the marketing order size designations listed in table 1 contained herein, and shall be of a size not smaller than the applicable size requirements, tolerances, and percentages listed in paragraph (h) of this section.

(2) The size of the canned whole olives shall conform with the applicable count per pound range indicated in table I of paragraph (f)(1) of this section. When the count per pound of whole olives falls between two count ranges, the size designation shall be that of the smaller size. The average count for canned whole ripe olives is determined from all containers in the sample and is calculated on the basis of the drained weight of the olives.

(3) Pitted olives must meet the size requirements for canned whole olives specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section prior to pitting, or must meet the size designations specified in ยง 52.3754 of the U.S. Standards for Grades of Canned Ripe Olives subsequent to pitting, subject to the following minimum size requirements:

(i) Variety group 1 olives, except Ascolano, Barouni, and St. Agostino varieties, shall be at least "Extra Large;"

(ii) Variety group 1 olives of the Ascolano, Barouni, and St. Agostino varieties shall be at least "Large;"

(iii) Variety group 2 olives, except the Obliza variety, shall be at least "Small;"

(iv) Variety group 2 olives of the Obliza variety shall be at least "Medium."
