
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 932.155 Special purpose shipments.

(a) The disposition of packaged olives covered by ยง 932.152(d) which are not reprocessed, and new packaged olive products covered under paragraph (b) of this section which have not been disposed of by the end of the test market period, shall be handled in conformity with the applicable provisions of this paragraph.

(1) Under the supervision of the Inspection Service, such packaged olives may be disposed of for use in the production of olive oil or dumped.

(2) Such packaged olives may be disposed of to a charitable organization for use by such organization, provided the following conditions are met:

(i) Any handler who wishes to so dispose of olives shall first file a written application with, and obtain written approval thereof, from the committee. Each such application shall contain at least:

(A) The name and address of the handler and the charitable organization;

(B) The physical location of the charitable organization's facilities;

(C) The quantity, in cases, the variety, size, can size, and can code of the packaged olives; and

(D) A certification from the charitable organization that such olives will be used by the organization and will not be sold.

(ii) Prior to approval, the committee shall perform such verification of the accuracy of the information on the application as it deems necessary. The committee may deny any application if it finds that the required information is incomplete or incorrect, or has reason to believe that the intended receiver is not a charitable organization, or that the handler or the organization has disposed of packaged olives contrary to a previously approved application. The committee shall notify the applicant and the organization in writing of its approval, or denial, of the application. Any such approval shall continue in effect so long as the packaged olives covered thereby are disposed of consistent with this section. The committee shall notify the handler and the organization of each such termination of approval. The handler shall furnish the committee, upon demand, such evidence of disposition of the packaged olives covered by an approved application as may be satisfactory to the committee.

(b) In accordance with the provisions of ยง 932.55(b), packaged olives to be used in marketing development projects may be handled without regard to ยง 932.149 provided the following conditions are met. Such olives must be identified to the satisfaction of the Inspection Service and kept separate from other packaged olives. The handler shall submit to the committee for its approval "COC Form 155" at least 10 working days prior to the shipment of such packaged olives to test markets, and report progress or changes to the committee, as requested. The applicant handler shall provide the following information on COC Form 155:

(1) The quantity of olives to be utilized (limited to not more than five percent of the handler's crop year acquisitions);

(2) Specific market outlet;

(3) Flavorings or other ingredients added to the olives;

(4) Style of olives used;

(5) Type of olives used, either black or green ripe;

(6) Container sizes;

(7) Varieties used, whether Ascolano, Barouni, Manzanillo, Mission, Sevillano, etc.;

(8) Sizes of olives utilized;

(9) Approximate dates when the new product will be packaged;

(10) Name and address of requesting handler;

(11) Place of inspection;

(12) Certification that all assessment and reporting requirements in effect under the marketing order will be met prior to shipment;

(13) Certification that all such fruit will be kept separate from other packaged olives and will be so identified by control cards or other means acceptable to the Inspection Service;

(14) Purpose and nature of the request, whether for test marketing, evaluation, market research, etc.; and

(15) An estimate of the amount of time required to complete the test. The committee shall promptly approve or deny the application, and may add limitations to any such approval. Upon approval, the applicant handler shall notify the Inspection Service. Packaged olives so identified and remaining unused at the end of the approved test-market period shall be disposed of according to paragraph (a) of this section.
