
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 932.161 Reports.
####### Packaged olive inventory reports.

(d)Each handler shall submit an inventory report to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, not later than the 15th day of each month showing the total quantity of packaged olives of the ripe and green ripe types held in storage at all locations on the last day of the preceding month. Such reports shall contain the following information, as applicable:

(1) With respect to the whole, pitted, and broken pitted styles of packaged ripe or green ripe type olives, each style shall be reported separately on COC Form 27a in terms of the packaged quantity of each size designated on the form. Such quantity, or quantities, shall be reported in terms of the total amount packaged in each of the container sizes listed on said form except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 x 407) size cans. Each handler shall report separately the total quantity of any packaged olives of the green ripe type held in storage at all locations.

(2) Halved, sliced, segmented (wedged), and chopped styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type shall be reported in terms of the quantity of each style packaged in each of the container sizes listed on COC Form 27b except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 x 407) size cans.
