
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 932.161 Reports.
####### Packout reports.

(f)Each handler shall submit to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, for each month and not more than 15 days after the end of such month, a report showing the total production of packaged olives of the ripe and green ripe types. Such reports shall include the following information, as applicable:

(1) With respect to the whole, pitted, and broken pitted styles of packaged olives of the ripe or the green ripe types, each style shall be reported separately on COC Form 28a in terms of the total quantity of each size of olives as designated on the form. Such quantity, or quantities, shall be reported in terms of the total amount packaged in each of the container sizes listed on said form except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 x 407) size cans. Each handler shall report separately the total monthly production of packaged olives of the green ripe type.

(2) Halved, sliced, segmented (wedged), and chopped styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type shall be reported in terms of the quantity of each style packaged in each of the container sizes listed on COC Form 28b except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 x 407) size cans.
