
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 932 - OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 932.161 Reports.
####### Sales reports.

(b)(1) Each handler shall submit to the committee, on COC Form 21 as provided by the committee, for each month and not later than the 15th day following the end of that month, a report showing the handler's total sales of packaged olives to commercial outlets in the United States, to governmental agencies, and to foreign countries. Such sales shall be reported in the following categories:

(i) Whole and whole pitted styles of canned ripe olives in consumer size containers;

(ii) Whole and whole pitted styles of canned ripe olives in institutional size containers;

(iii) Chopped style of canned ripe olives in all types of containers; and

(iv) Halved, segmented (wedged), and sliced styles of canned ripe olives in all types of containers.

(2) Each handler shall submit to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, for each month and not more than 15 days after the end of such month, a report showing the total quantity of packaged olives of the ripe and green ripe types sold during the month. Such reports shall include the following information, as applicable:

(i) With respect to the whole, pitted, and broken pitted styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type, each style shall be reported separately on COC Form 29a in terms of the quantity of each size of olives as designated on the form. Such quantity, or quantities, shall be reported in terms of the total amount packaged in each of the container sizes listed on said form except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 x 407) size cans. Each handler shall report separately the total monthly sales of packaged olives of the green ripe type.

(ii) Limited use styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type shall be reported in terms of the quantity of each style packaged in each of the container sizes listed on COC Form 29b except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 x 407) size cans.
