
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 944 - FRUITS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 944.350 Safeguard procedures for avocados, grapefruit, kiwifruit, olives, oranges, prune variety plums (fresh prunes), and table grapes, exempt from grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.

(a) Each person who imports or receives any of the commodities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section shall file (electronically or paper) an "Importer's Exempt Commodity Form" (FV-6) with the Marketing Order and Agreement Division, Fruit and Vegetable Program, AMS, USDA. A "person who imports" may include a customs broker, acting as an importer's representative (hereinafter referred to as "importer"). A copy of the completed form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. If a paper form is used, a copy of the form shall accompany the lot to the exempt outlet specified on the form. Any lot of any commodity offered for inspection and, all or a portion thereof, subsequently imported as exempt under this provision shall also be reported on an FV-6 form. Such form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the Marketing Order and Agreement Division in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The applicable commodities are:

(1) Avocados, grapefruit, kiwifruit, olives, oranges, prune variety plums (fresh prunes) and table grapes for consumption by charitable institutions or distribution by relief agencies;

(2) Avocados, grapefruit, kiwifruit, oranges, prune variety plums (fresh prunes), and table grapes for processing;

(3) Olives for processing into oil;

(4) Grapefruit for animal feed; or

(5) Avocados for seed.
