
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 944 - FRUITS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 944.312 Orange import regulation.
###### importation,processing

(c) The termmeans release from custody of the United States Customs Service. The termmeans the manufacture of any orange product which has been converted into sectioned fruit or into fresh juice, or preserved by any commercial process, including canning, freezing, dehydrating, drying, and the addition of chemical substances, or by fermentation.

(d) Terms and tolerances pertaining to grade and size requirements, which are defined in the United States Standards for Grades of Oranges (Texas and States other than Florida, California, and Arizona) (7 CFR 51.680-51.714), shall be applicable herein.

(e) Any person may import up to 400 pounds a day of oranges exempt from the requirements specified in this section.

(f) The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, is designated as the governmental inspection service for certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of oranges imported into the United States. Inspection by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with evidence thereof in the form of an official inspection certificate, issued by the respective service, applicable to the particular shipment of oranges, is required on all such imports. The inspection and certification services will be available upon application in accordance with the Regulations Governing Inspection, Certification and Standards of Fresh Fruits, Vegetables, and Other Products (7 CFR part 51), and in accordance with the regulation designating inspection services and procedure for obtaining inspection and certification (7 CFR 944.400).

(g) Any oranges which fail to meet the import requirements, and are not being imported for purposes of consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, or processing into products; prior to or after reconditioning may be exported or disposed of under the supervision of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with the costs of certifying the disposal of such oranges borne by the importer.
