
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 944 - FRUITS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 944.31 Avocado import maturity regulation.
###### importation,commercial processing into products

(c) The termmeans release from custody of the United States Customs Service. The termmeans the manufacture of avocado product which is preserved by any recognized commercial process, including canning, freezing, dehydrating, drying, the addition of chemical substances, or by fermentation.

(d) Any person may import up to 55 pounds of avocados exempt from the requirements specified in this section.

(e) The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, is designated as the governmental inspection service for certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of avocados imported into the United States. Inspection by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with evidence thereof in the form of an official inspection certificate, issued by the respective service, applicable to the particular shipment of avocados, is required on all such imports. The inspection and certification services will be available upon application in accordance with the Regulations Governing Inspection, Certification and Standards of Fresh Fruits, Vegetables, and Other Products (7 CFR part 51), and in accordance with the regulation designating inspection services and procedure for obtaining inspection and certification (7 CFR 944.400).

(f) Any lot or portion thereof which fails to meet the import requirements, and is not being imported for purposes of consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, seed, or commercial processing into products; prior to or after reconditioning may be exported or disposed of under the supervision of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with the costs of certifying the disposal of such lot borne by the importer.

(g) The maturity requirements of this section shall not be applicable to avocados imported for consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, seed, or commercial processing into products, but such avocados shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in ยง 944.350.
