
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15f - ADJUDICATIONS UNDER SECTION 741
#### Subpart C - What Happens After I Send in My Section 741 Complaint Request? May I Seek To Resolve My Complaint Informally With OCR?
##### ยง 15f.9 What will the Director do to settle my Section 741 Complaint Request when it is received?

The Director will review each Section 741 Complaint Request. If the Director finds that your complaint is an eligible complaint, the Director will: review all documents and evidence submitted by you; review all agency or CR files, if any exist, regarding the circumstances surrounding the alleged discrimination; review any damage claims; and seek any further clarification, if necessary, from either you or the agency. CR also may refer your eligible complaint for a formal investigation by the CR Program Investigation Division or by an outside contractor. Based on his or her review, the Director will either undertake negotiations with you to resolve the complaint; or inform you that CR will not settle the complaint and explain to you your options, including your right to request formal proceedings before an ALJ under subpart D of this part within 30 days of receipt of notice from the Director that CR will not settle the complaint. If the complaint is successfully resolved or settled, the Director will issue a final determination disposing of the matter. If you have received a notice that the Director will not settle the complaint prior to February 14, 2003, you have until 90 days after February 14, 2003 to request formal proceedings under subpart D of this part. Any request for formal proceedings received by USDA after the deadlines set forth in this section will not be accepted.
