
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 944 - FRUITS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 944.550 Kiwifruit import regulation.
###### importation,commercial processing into products

(c) The termmeans release from custody of the United States Customs Service. The termmeans that the kiwifruit is physically altered in form or chemical composition through freezing, canning, dehydrating, pulping, juicing, or heating of the product. The act of slicing, dicing, or peeling shall not be considered commercial processing into products.

(d) Any lot or portion thereof which fails to meet the import requirements and is not being imported for purposes of consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, or commercial processing into products may be reconditioned or exported. Any failed lot which is not reconditioned or exported shall be disposed of under supervision of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with the costs of certifying the disposal of said lot borne by the importer.

(e) Any person may import up to 200 pounds of kiwifruit in any one shipment exempt from the requirements of this section.

(f) The grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of this section shall not be applicable to kiwifruit imported for consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, or commercial processing into products, but shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in ยง 944.350.
