
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 944 - FRUITS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 944.550 Kiwifruit import regulation.
###### Actinidia chinensis,Actinidia chinensis

(a) Pursuant to section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended, the importation into the United States of any kiwifruit is prohibited unless such kiwifruit meets all the requirements of a U.S. No. 1 grade as defined in the United States Standards for Grades of Kiwifruit (7 CFR 51.2335 through 51.2340), except that the kiwifruit shall be "not badly misshapen," and an additional tolerance of 16 percent is provided for kiwifruit that is "badly misshapen," and except that such kiwifruit shall have a minimum of 6.2 percent soluble solids. Such fruit, except for varieties of thespecies, shall be at least Size 45, which means there shall be a maximum of 55 pieces of fruit in an 8-pound sample. Varieties of thespecies shall be at least Size 49, which means there shall be a maximum of 64 pieces of fruit in an 8-pound sample. The average weight of all samples in a specific lot must weigh at least 8 pounds (3.632 kilograms), provided that no individual sample may be less than 7 pounds 12 ounces (3.472 kilograms).

(b) The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, is designated as the governmental inspection service for certifying the quality and size of kiwifruit imported into the United States. Inspection by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with evidence thereof in the form of an official inspection certificate, issued by the respective service, applicable to a particular shipment of kiwifruit, is required on all imports. The inspection and certification services will be available upon application in accordance with the rules and regulations governing the inspection and certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products (7 CFR part 51) and in accordance with the procedure for requesting inspection and designating the agencies to perform required inspection and certification (7 CFR 944.400).
