
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 945 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Committee
####### § 945.20 Establishment and membership.

(a) The Idaho-Eastern Oregon Potato Committee is hereby established consisting of eight members, of whom four shall currently be producers of potatoes for the fresh market who produced such potatoes during at least three of the last five years; at least one member shall be a producer predominately of potatoes for seed during a similar period; and three shall be handlers. For each member of the committee, there shall be an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member. The number of producer and/or handler members and alternates on the committee may be increased and the composition of the committee between producers and handlers may be changed as provided in § 945.23.

(b) Each person selected as a committee member or alternate to represent producers shall be an individual who is a producer in the district for which selected or an officer or employee of a producer in such district, and shall be a resident thereof. A producer who handles potatoes other than of his own production shall qualify as a producer under this section, and §§ 945.24, 945.25, 945.27, and 945.29, only if the potatoes of his own production constituted 51 percent or more of the total quantity of potatoes handled by him during the portion of the then current season preceding his nomination.

(c) Each person selected as a committee member or alternate to represent handlers shall be an individual who is a handler or an officer or employee of a handler, and shall be a resident of the production area.

(d) At least every six years, the committee shall review committee size, composition, and representation and recommend to the Secretary whether changes should be made, as provided in § 945.23.
