
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 945 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Committee
####### ยง 945.25 Nominations.

For the selection by the Secretary of the members and alternates of the Idaho-Eastern Oregon Potato Committee, nominations may be made in the manner indicated in this section. Nominations for members and alternates may be submitted by producers or handlers, as the case may be, or groups of either thereof, on an elective basis or otherwise.

(a) In order to provide nominations for producer and handler committee members and alternates, the committee shall hold, or cause to be held, prior to April 1 of each year, or such other date as the Secretary may designate, one or more meetings of producers and of handlers in each district to nominate such members and alternates; or the committee may conduct nominations by mail in a manner recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

(b) In arranging for such meetings, the committee may, if it deems it to be desirable, utilize the services and facilities of existing organizations and agencies, and may combine its meetings with others.

(c) At least one nominee shall be designated for each position as member and for each position as alternate member on the committee.

(d) Only producers may participate in designating nominees for producer members and alternates, and only handlers may participate in designating nominees for handler members and alternates.

(e) Each person who is both a handler and a producer may vote either as a handler or as a producer and may elect the group in which he will vote.

(f) Regardless of the number of districts in which a person produces or handles potatoes, each such person is entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of himself, his agents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives, in designating nominees for committee members and alternates. In the event a person is engaged in producing or handling potatoes in more than one district, such person shall elect the district within which he may participate, as aforesaid, in designating nominees. An eligible voter's privilege of casting only one vote, as aforesaid, shall be construed to permit a voter to cast one vote for each position to be filled in the district in which he elects to vote.

(g) Nominations shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than May 1 of each year, or such other date as the Secretary may specify.
