
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 945 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Budget, Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 945.42 Assessments.

(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses pursuant to ยง 945.40 shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who ships potatoes as the first handler thereof shall pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of such expenses.

(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at a rate per hundredweight of potatoes or equivalent established by the Secretary. Such rate may be established upon the basis of the committee's budget recommendations, and other available information.

(c) At any time during or subsequent to a given fiscal period, the committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendation, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the rate of assessment. Such increase shall be applicable to all potatoes assessable under this part and handled by the first handler thereof during such fiscal period.

(d) The committee may impose a late payment charge or an interest charge, or both, on any handler who fails to pay, on or before the due date established by the Secretary, the total assessment for which such handler is liable. Such due date and the late payment fee and interest rate shall be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

(e) In order to provide funds to carry out its function, after the effective date of this subpart the committee may accept advance assessments from handlers. Advance assessments received from a handler shall be credited toward assessments levied against that handler during that fiscal period. In the case of an extreme emergency, the committee may also borrow money on a short term basis to provide funds for the administration of this part. Any such borrowed money shall only be used to meet the committee's current financial obligations, and the committee shall repay all borrowed money by the end of the next fiscal period from assessment income.
