
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 945 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 945.80 Reports.

(a) Upon the request of the committee, with approval of the Secretary, every handler shall furnish to the committee, in such manner and at such time as may be prescribed, such information as will enable the committee to exercise its powers and perform its duties under this subpart. The Secretary shall have the right to modify, change, or rescind any requests for reports pursuant to this section.

(b) All data or other information constituting a trade secret, or disclosing a trade position or business condition of a particular handler shall be treated as confidential and shall at all times be received by and kept in the custody and under the control of one or more designated employees of the committee. Information which would reveal the circumstances of a single handler shall be disclosed to no person other than the Secretary.

(c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding fiscal periods such records of potatoes received and of potatoes disposed of by such handler as may be necessary to verify reports required pursuant to this section. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe rules and regulations issued pursuant to this section specifying handler records and reports which the committee may need to perform its functions.

(d) For the purpose of assuring compliance and checking and verifying reports filed by handlers, the Secretary and the committee, through its duly authorized agents, shall have access to any premises where applicable records are maintained, where potatoes are held, and, at any time during reasonable business hours, shall be permitted to inspect such handlers' premises and any and all records of such handlers with respect to matters within the purview of this part.
