
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 945 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart D - Handling Requirements
###### ยง 945.341 Handling regulation.
####### Provided,

(1) No handler shall handle potatoes unless such potatoes are inspected by either the Idaho Federal-State Inspection Service or Oregon Federal-State Inspection Service and are covered and accompanied by a valid inspection certificate, numbered notesheet, or shipping clearance report:That a valid inspection certificate, numbered notesheet, or shipping clearance report is not required to accompany positive lot identified potatoes.

(2) Each lot shipped shall be accompanied by a copy of a valid inspection certificate, a numbered notesheet, shipping clearance report, or the lot must meet PLI requirements established by the Fresh Products Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

(3) Inspection certificates, numbered notesheets or shipping clearance reports for potatoes to be shipped must be issued within four days of such shipment. Otherwise, such potatoes, including lots that are positive lot identified, can only be shipped if a new inspection is performed to verify that the potatoes meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. If the subsequent inspection verifies that the lot meets the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, a new certificate, a new numbered notesheet, or a new shipping clearance report shall be issued and, if positive lot identified, shall reference the original PLI number, and a new PLI number need not be applied to the lot. However, if upon subsequent inspection, the lot does not meet the requirements specified in either paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the lot shall be reconditioned in the presence of an authorized representative of the Idaho Federal-State Inspection Service or Oregon Federal-State Inspection Service prior to the close of the business day. If the lot is reconditioned prior to the close of the business day, a new certificate, a new numbered notesheet, or a new shipping clearance report must be issued, and either a new PLI number must be applied to the lot or the original PLI number must be modified. If the PLI numbered lot is not reconditioned prior to the close of the business day, all PLI numbers must be obliterated. Any inspection certificate, numbered notesheet, or shipping clearance report issued upon a subsequent inspection, including when a lot is reconditioned, must be issued within four days of shipment of the potatoes.

(4) Handlers shall provide the Committee with the destination zip codes of all potatoes handled by permitting the Idaho Federal-State Inspection Service or Oregon Federal-State Inspection Service to review the bills of lading upon inspection to determine the destination zip codes. The destination zip codes shall be included on the inspection certificates. The destination zip codes and the quantity shall be provided by the handler to the Committee on lots which are positive lot identified, either orally or in writing. Whenever potatoes are diverted to a different destination, the handler shall notify the Committee of the new destination zip code and quantity orally or in writing as soon as practicable.
