
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15f - ADJUDICATIONS UNDER SECTION 741
#### Subpart D - If I Request a Hearing, What Will Happen? How Will the Hearing Be Conducted?
##### ยง 15f.16 Although I request a hearing, may I request the ALJ to issue a decision without a hearing?

(a) At any time after the parties have been notified of your hearing request, you may file a request with the ALJ to make a determination based on the written record. With your request, you should file any other arguments or evidence that you wish the ALJ to consider. The agency and OCR will have 35 days after you file your request to file any additional information, arguments, or evidence for the consideration of the ALJ. The ALJ may recommend dismissal of your complaint on the basis of a finding that it is not an eligible complaint; recommend denial of your eligible complaint on the merits; or make a proposed finding of discrimination on your eligible complaint and recommend to award you such relief as would be afforded under the applicable statute or regulation under which the eligible complaint was filed. The ALJ will make a proposed determination on your complaint based on the original complaint, the Section 741 Complaint Request, the OCR report, and any other evidence or written documents filed by the parties. The proposed determination will become the final determination 35 days after it is filed unless you request review of the proposed determination by the ASCR. The ASCR also may review the proposed determination on his or her own initiative. If the ASCR reviews the decision, he or she will allow the parties a reasonable opportunity to file briefs in support of or opposition to the proposed determination, and afterwards will issue a final determination within 35 days after you request review of the proposed determination.

(b) To the maximum extent practicable, a final determination will be made within 180 days of your filing of the Section 741 Complaint Request.
