
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 945 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart D - Handling Requirements
###### ยง 945.341 Handling regulation.
####### Definitions.,U.S. Extra No. 1, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 2, Size B, fairly clean, moderately skinned,,slightly skinned,prepeeling,other processing,Idaho Utility,Oregon Utility

(h)The termsandshall have the same meaning as when used in the United States Standards for Potatoes (7 CFR 51.1540-51.1566), including the tolerances set forth therein. The termmeans the commercial preparation in a prepeeling plant of clean, sound, fresh potatoes by washing, peeling, or otherwise removing the outer skin, trimming, sorting, and properly treating to prevent discoloration preparatory to sale in one or more of the styles of peeled potatoes described in ยง 52.2422 of the United States Standards for Peeled Potatoes (7 CFR 52.2421-52.2433). The termhas the same meaning as the term appearing in the act and includes, but is not restricted to, potatoes for dehydration, chips, shoestrings, starch, and flour. It includes only that preparation of potatoes for market which involves the application of heat or cold to such an extent that the natural form or stability of the commodity undergoes a substantial change. The act of peeling, cooling, slicing, dicing, or applying material to prevent oxidation does not constitute "other processing." The termsgrade andgrade shall have the same meaning as when used in the standards for potatoes for the respective State. Other terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in Marketing Agreement No. 98 and Order No. 945, both as amended.
