
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 948 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN COLORADO
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Regulation
####### ยง 948.22 Issuance of regulations.

(a) The Secretary shall limit by regulation the handling of potatoes whenever he finds from recommendations and information submitted by an area committee, or from other available information, that such regulation would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. Such regulation may:

(1) Limit the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities, or maturities of any or all varieties of potatoes, or any combination of the foregoing during any period.

(2) Limit the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities, or maturities of potatoes differently, for different varieties, for different containers, for different packs, for different portions of the production area, for different purposes under ยง 948.23, or for any combination of the foregoing, during any period.

(3) Provide a method through rules and regulations issued pursuant to this subpart for fixing the size, capacity, weight, dimensions, or pack of the container, or containers, which may be used in the packaging or handling of potatoes, or both.

(4) Establish in terms of grades, sizes, or both, minimum standards of quality and maturity.

(b) Any regulation issued hereunder may be amended, modified, suspended, or terminated by the Secretary on recommendations by an area committee, or on other available information, to provide for

(1) Such changes in regulations found necessary by changes in supplies, demand, or prices;

(2) Minimum quantities which should be relieved of regulatory or administrative obligations; or

(3) Relief from regulations no longer tending to effectuate the declared policies of the Act.

(c) The Secretary shall notify each committee of each regulation recommended by it and issued pursuant to this section. The respective committee shall give reasonable notice thereof to handlers. No regulation, except when relieving limitations, shall become effective less than two days after issuance thereof.
