
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 948 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN COLORADO
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Inspection
####### § 948.40 Inspection and certification.

(a) During any period in which the handling of potatoes is regulated pursuant to § 948.20 through § 948.24, inclusive, no handler shall handle potatoes unless such potatoes are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal or a Federal-State Inspection Service and are covered by a valid inspection certificate, except when relieved of such requirements by § 948.22(b), § 948.23, or § 948.40(b).

(b) Rules may be issued by the Secretary, upon recommendation of the Colorado Potato Committee requiring inspection on regraded, resorted or repacked lots, or providing for special inspection requirements or relief therefrom. Such rules may provide distinctions, insofar as practical, between handling at shipping point and handling in receiving markets within the production area.

(c) Upon recommendation of an area committee and approval by the Secretary, any or all potatoes so inspected and certified shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, or tags to be affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of a Federal or Federal-State Inspector or the committee. Master containers may bear the identification instead of the individual containers within said master container.

(d) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.

(e) When potatoes are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section, a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the inspection service.

(f) Area committees with the approval of the Colorado Potato Committee may recommend and the Secretary may require that no handler shall transport or cause the transportation of potatoes by motor vehicle or by other means unless such shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate issued thereon, or other document authorized by the committee to indicate that such inspection has been performed. Such certificate or document shall be surrendered to such authority as may be designated.
