
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 948 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN COLORADO
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Committees
####### ยง 948.56 Nomination and selection.

(a) Each area committee shall hold or cause to be held, not less than 15 days prior to the expiration date of respective terms of office, meetings of producers and handlers for each subdivision in which terms expire or in which vacancies otherwise occur.

(b) At each such meeting one or more nominees shall be designated for each impending vacancy as member or alternate. Such designation may be by ballot or by motion at the option of those present in voting capacity.

(c) Only producers may participate in designating producer nominees; only handlers may participate in designating handler nominees; and only duly authorized representatives of producers' cooperative marketing associations may participate in designating nominees to represent such associations. If no separate representation is provided for producers' cooperative marketing associations, duly authorized representatives of such associations may participate in designating handler nominees.

(d) Each producers' cooperative marketing association shall be entitled to cast only one vote in designating nominees to represent such associations. Each producer and each handler shall be entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of himself, his agents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives.

(e) If a producer, handler, or producers' cooperative marketing association is engaged in producing or handling potatoes in more than one area, or in more than one subdivision of an area, such producer, handler, or producers' cooperative marketing association shall elect the area or subdivision in which he may participate in designating nominees. In no event shall there be participation in more than one area or subdivision.
