
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 948 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN COLORADO
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 948.77 Assessments.

(a) The funds to cover each area committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who first handles potatoes under this part, shall pay assessments to his respective area committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the area committee's expenses.

(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of each area committee's budget, recommendations, and other available information. Such rates may be applied to specified containers used in the production area.

(c) At any time during, or subsequent to, a given fiscal period each area committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendations, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the rate of assessment. Such increase shall be applicable to all potatoes grown within the particular area where an area committee recommends such increase and which were handled by the first handler thereof during such fiscal period.

(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of each area committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective to whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.

(e) In order to provide funds to enable each area committee to perform its functions under this part, handlers may make advance payment of assessments.
