
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 948 - IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN COLORADO
##### Subpart D - Handling Requirements
###### ยง 948.387 Handling regulation.
####### Definitions.,U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 2, Size B, moderately skinned,slightly skinned,prepeeling,other processing,manufacture or conversion into specified products

(g)The termsandshall have the same meaning as when used in the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes (7 CFR 51.1540-51.1566) including the tolerances set forth therein. The termmeans the commercial preparation in a prepeeling plant of clean, sound, fresh potatoes by washing, peeling or otherwise removing the outer skin, trimming, sorting, and properly treating to prevent discoloration preparatory to sale in one or more of the styles of peeled potatoes described in ยง 52.2422 United States Standards for Grades of Peeled Potatoes (7 CFR 52.2421-52.2433). The termhas the same meaning as the term appearing in the act and includes, but is not restricted to, potatoes for dehydration, chips, shoestrings, starch, and flour. It includes only that preparation of potatoes for market which involves the application of heat or cold to such an extent that the natural form or stability of the commodity undergoes a substantial change. The act of peeling, cooling, slicing, dicing, or applying material to prevent oxidation does not constitute "other processing." The termmeans the preparation of potatoes for market into products by peeling, slicing, dicing, applying material to prevent oxidation, or other means approved by the committee, but not including other processing. All other terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in Marketing Agreement No. 97, as amended, and this part.
