
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 955 - VIDALIA ONIONS GROWN IN GEORGIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Committee
####### ยง 955.22 Nominations.
######## Successor members.

(b)(1) The committee shall hold or cause to be held not later than August 1 of each year, or such other date as may be specified by the Secretary, a meeting or meetings of growers for the purpose of designating one nominee for each position as member and for each position as alternate member of the committee which is vacant, or which is about to become vacant.

(2) Nominations for members and alternates shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than August 15 of each year, or by such other date as may be specified by the Secretary.

(3) The Secretary may, upon recommendation of the committee, divide the production area into districts for the purpose of nominating committee members and their alternates.

(c) Only producers may participate in designating nominees to serve as committee members. Each producer is entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of such producer and such producer's agents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives in designating nominees for committee members and alternates. An eligible voter's privilege of casting only one vote shall be construed to permit a voter to cast one vote for each position to be filled.

(d) The producer members shall nominate the public member and alternate member at the first meeting following the selection of members for a new term of office. Nominations for the public member and alternate member shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than November 1, or such other date as may be specified by the Secretary.
