
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 15f - ADJUDICATIONS UNDER SECTION 741
#### Subpart D - If I Request a Hearing, What Will Happen? How Will the Hearing Be Conducted?
##### ยง 15f.21 What rules are applicable to the actual conduct of the hearing?
###### Transcript or recording.

(9)(i) Hearings to be conducted by telephone will be recorded verbatim by electronic recording device. Hearings conducted by audio-visual telecommunication or by the personal attendance of parties and witnesses must be transcribed, unless the ALJ finds that recording the hearing verbatim would expedite the proceeding and the ALJ orders the hearing to be recorded verbatim. The ALJ must certify that to the best of his or her knowledge and belief any recording made pursuant to this paragraph with exhibits that were accepted into evidence is the record of the hearing.

(ii) If a hearing is recorded verbatim, a party requests the transcript of a hearing or part of a hearing, and the ALJ determines that the disposition of the proceeding would be expedited by a transcript of the hearing or part of a hearing, the ALJ shall order the verbatim transcription of the recording as requested by the party.

(iii) The costs of transcription or verbatim recordings will be paid for by USDA and charged to the agency whose action gave rise to the complaint at issue. Copies of recordings or transcripts of hearings will be made available to any party at the actual cost of duplication.
