
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 956 - SWEET ONIONS GROWN IN THE WALLA WALLA VALLEY OF SOUTHEAST WASHINGTON AND NORTHEAST OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Miscellaneous Provisions
####### ยง 956.85 Termination or suspension.

(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate the provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which the Secretary may determine.

(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operations of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever it is found that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.

(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any fiscal period whenever it is found that such termination is favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period, have been engaged in the production of Walla Walla Sweet Onions: Provided, That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such Walla Walla Sweet Onions produced for market, but such termination shall be announced at least 90 days before the end of the current fiscal period.

(d) Within six years of the effective date of this subpart the Secretary shall conduct a continuance referendum to ascertain whether continuance of this subpart is favored by producers. Subsequent referenda to ascertain continuance shall be conducted every six years thereafter. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal period in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this subpart is not favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of Walla Walla Sweet Onions in the production area. Such termination shall be announced on or before the end of the fiscal period.

(e) The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
