
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 956 - SWEET ONIONS GROWN IN THE WALLA WALLA VALLEY OF SOUTHEAST WASHINGTON AND NORTHEAST OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Regulation
####### § 956.66 Safeguards.

(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe adequate safeguards to prevent Walla Walla Sweet Onions shipped, pursuant to §§ 956.63 and 956.64, from entering channels of trade for other than the purpose authorized therefor.

(b) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may also prescribe rules and regulations governing the issuance, and the contents, of Certificates of Privilege, if such certificates are prescribed as safeguards by the committee. Such safeguards may include requirements that:

(1) Handlers shall first file applications with the committee to ship such Walla Walla Sweet Onions.

(2) Handlers shall pay the pro rata share of expenses provided by § 956.42 in connection with such Walla Walla Sweet Onions.

(3) Handlers shall obtain Certificates of Privilege from the committee prior to effecting the particular onion shipment.

(c) The committee may rescind any Certificate of Privilege, or refuse to issue any Certificate of Privilege, to any handler if proof is obtained that Walla Walla Sweet Onions shipped by the handler for the purposes stated in the Certificate of Privilege were handled contrary to the provisions of this part.

(d) The Secretary shall have the right to modify, change, alter, or rescind any safeguards prescribed and any certificates issued by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this section.

(e) The committee shall make reports to the Secretary as requested, showing the number of applications for such certificates, the quantity of Walla Walla Sweet Onions covered by such applications, the number of such applications denied and certificates granted, the quantity of Walla Walla Sweet Onions handled under duly issued certificates, and such other information as may be requested.
