
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 956 - SWEET ONIONS GROWN IN THE WALLA WALLA VALLEY OF SOUTHEAST WASHINGTON AND NORTHEAST OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Inspection
####### ยง 956.70 Inspection and certification.
######## Provided,

(b) Regrading, resorting, or repacking any lot of Walla Walla Sweet Onions shall invalidate prior inspection certificates insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned. No handler shall ship Walla Walla Sweet Onions after they have been regraded, resorted, repacked, or in any other way further prepared for market, unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate:That such inspection requirements on regraded, resorted, or repacked Walla Walla Sweet Onions may be modified, suspended, or terminated under rules and regulations recommended by the committee, and approved by the Secretary.

(c) Upon recommendation of the committee, and approval of the Secretary, all Walla Walla Sweet Onions that are required to be inspected and certified in accordance with this section shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, tags, or other identification to be furnished by the committee and affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of the Federal-State or Federal inspector, or the committee. Master containers may bear the identification instead of the individual containers within said master container.

(d) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.

(e) When Walla Walla Sweet Onions are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section, a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the inspection service.

(f) The committee may enter into an agreement with an inspection service with respect to the costs of the inspection as provided by paragraph (a) of this section, and may collect from handlers their respective pro rata shares of such costs.
