
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 958 - ONIONS GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Administrative Committee
####### ยง 958.22 Selection.

The Secretary shall select committee members and alternates from the nominee lists submitted pursuant to this part or from among other eligible persons.

(a) Each person selected as a committee member or alternate to represent producers shall be an individual who is a producer, or an officer or employee of a producer, in the district for which selected.

(b) Each person selected as a committee member or alternate to represent handlers shall be an individual who is a handler, or an officer or employee of a handler in the portion of the production area for which selected.

(c) The Secretary shall select one producer member of the committee, and alternate, from each of the districts established, or reestablished, pursuant to ยง 958.27. The Secretary shall also select one handler member of the committee, and his alternate, from the Idaho portion of the production area and one member and his alternate from Malheur County, Oregon, and two handler members, and their respective alternates, from the production area-at-large.

(d) Each person selected by the Secretary as a committee member or alternate shall qualify by filing a written acceptance promptly with the Secretary.

(e) The public member shall be a resident of the production area and have no direct financial interest in the commercial production, financing, buying, packing or marketing of onions except as a consumer nor be a director, officer or employee of any firm so engaged.
