
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 958 - ONIONS GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Inspection
####### ยง 958.60 Inspection and certification.

(a) During any period in which shipments of onions are regulated pursuant to this subpart, no handler shall handle onions unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate and are covered by a valid inspection certificate, except when relieved from such requirements pursuant to ยง 958.53, ยง 958.54, or both.

(b) Regarding, resorting, or repacking any lot of onions shall invalidate prior inspection certificates insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned. No handler shall ship onions after they have been regarded, resorted, repacked or in any other way further prepared for market, unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate.

(c) Upon recommendation of the committee, and approval of the Secretary, all onions that are required to be inspected and certified in accordance with this section, shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, tags, or other identification to be furnished by the committee and affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of the Federal-State, or Federal inspector, or the committee. Master containers may bear the identification instead of the individual containers within said master container.

(d) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.

(e) When onions are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section, a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the inspection service.
