
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 958 - ONIONS GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
##### Subpart C - Handling Requirements
###### ยง 958.328 Handling regulation.
####### Safeguards.

(f)Each handler making shipments of onions outside the production area for dehydration, canning, freezing, extraction, pickling, or experimentation pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section shall:

(1) Furnish "Application to Make Special Purpose Shipments-Certificate of Privilege" and such other information to the committee as required. The committee will review and verify each "Application to Make Special Purpose Shipments-Certificate of Privilege" and notify the handler of approval or disapproval. The committee may contact the receiver or receiver's agent of the special purpose shipment for verification and request the receiver or receiver's agent to complete a "Special Purpose Shipment Receiver Certification"

(2) Bill or consign each shipment directly to the applicable receiver or receiver's agent of the special purpose shipment;

(3) Furnish "Onion Diversion Report" and such other information to the committee as required. Failure of the handler to furnish such report and information as required to the committee may be cause for cancellation of such handlers' Certificate of Privilege. Upon cancellation of any such Certificate of Privilege the handler may appeal to the committee for reconsideration. The committee may audit a receiver or receiver's agent of the special purpose shipment to verify reports and information submitted by handlers. Failure of a receiver or receiver's agent of a special purpose shipment to comply with the committee may be cause for cancellation of the receiver's or receiver agent's eligibility to receive further special purpose shipments from the production area. Upon cancellation of any such Certificate of Privilege the receiver or the receiver's agent may appeal to the committee for reconsideration.
