
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 959 - ONIONS GROWN IN SOUTH TEXAS
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Inspection
####### ยง 959.60 Inspection and certification.

(a) Whenever the handling of onions is regulated pursuant to ยง 959.52, or at other times when recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary, no handlers shall handle onions unless they are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service and are covered by a valid inspection certificate, except when relieved from such requirements pursuant to ยง 959.52(c) or ยง 959.54, or paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Regarding, resorting, or repacking any lot of onions shall invalidate any prior inspection certificate insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned. No handler shall handle onions after they have been regraded, resorted, or repacked unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service. Such inspection requirements on regraded, resorted, or repacked onions may be modified, suspended, or terminated upon recommendation by the committee and approval of the Secretary.

(c) Upon recommendation of the committee and approval by the Secretary, any or all onions so inspected and certified shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, or tags to be affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of a Federal or Federal-State Inspector or the Committee. Master containers may bear the identification instead of the individual containers within said master container.

(d) At any time this marketing order is inoperative, compulsory inspection is not required.

(e) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.

(f) When onions are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section, a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the Inspection Service.

(g) The committee may recommend and the Secretary may require that no handler shall transport or cause the transportation of onions by motor vehicle or by other means unless such shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate issued thereon, or other document authorized by the committee to indicate that such inspection has been performed. Such certificate or document shall be surrendered to such authority as may be designated.
