
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 959 - ONIONS GROWN IN SOUTH TEXAS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Provisions
###### General
####### ยง 959.103 Registered handler.

For purposes of this part any person who operates an established packing house within the production area with commonly accepted adequate facilities for grading and packing onions for market, and who customarily buys onions from producers for grading, packing, and marketing shall be recorded by the committee as a registered handler. Any other person who wishes to be listed as a registered handler may make application for registration on forms furnished by the committee. If such applicant has facilities available to him that are determined by the committee to be adequate for grading and packing onions for market, and he assumes responsibility for inspection of onions handled by him, and for assessments thereon, he may be approved and recorded as a registered handler. If the committee determines from the available information that the applicant is not entitled to be registered with the committee, he shall be so informed by written notice stating the reason for denial of his application. Any registration of a handler pursuant to this section may be canceled by the committee under circumstances which would have justified denial of his application. Any handler whose registration has been canceled shall be so informed by written notice thereof stating the reason therefor. The committee shall also notify producers of each such cancellation of handler registration through committee bulletins or published notice in local newspapers of general distribution, or both.
