
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 959 - ONIONS GROWN IN SOUTH TEXAS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Provisions
###### Safeguards
####### ยง 959.322 Handling regulation.
######## Inspection.

(c)(1) No handler may handle any onions regulated hereunder, except pursuant to paragraphs (d), (e)(1), or (e)(2) of this section unless an inspection certificate has been issued by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Texas Cooperative Inspection Program, covering them and the certificate is valid at the time of shipment. City destinations shall be listed on inspection certificates and release forms.

(2) No handler may transport by motor vehicle or cause such transportation of any shipment of onions for which an inspection certificate is required unless each such shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate applicable thereto or the shipment release form furnished by the inspection service identifying truck lots to which a valid inspection certificate is applicable. A copy of such inspection certificate or shipment release form shall be surrendered upon request to Texas Department of Agriculture personnel designated by the committee.

(3) For purposes of operation under this part, each inspection certificate, shipment release form, or committee form required as evidence of inspection is hereby determined to be valid for a period not to exceed 72 hours following completion of inspection as shown on the certificate.

(4) Handlers shall pay assessment on all assessable onions according to the provisions of ยง 959.42.
