
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 959 - ONIONS GROWN IN SOUTH TEXAS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Provisions
###### Safeguards
####### ยง 959.322 Handling regulation.
######## Safeguards.

(f)Each handler making shipments of onions for charity, relief, export, processing, or experimental purposes shall:

(1) Apply to the committee for and obtain a Certificate of Privilege to make such shipments;

(2) Furnish reports of each shipment made under the applicable Certificate of Privilege;

(3) Such reports, in accordance with ยง 959.80, shall be furnished to the committee in such manner, on such forms and at such times as it may prescribe. Each handler shall maintain records of such shipments pursuant to ยง 959.80(c), and the records shall be subject to review and audit by the committee to verify reports thereon.

(4) In addition to provisions in the preceding paragraphs, each handler making shipments for processing shall:

(i) Weigh or cause to be weighed each shipment prior to, or upon arrival at, the processor.

(ii) Attach a copy of the weight ticket to a completed copy of the Report of Special Purpose Onion Shipment and return both promptly to the committee office.

(iii) Make each shipment directly to the processor or the processor's subcontractor and attach a copy of the Report of Special Purpose Onion Shipment.

(iv) Each processor or processor's subcontractor who receives cull onions shall weigh the onions upon receipt, complete the Report of Special Purpose Shipment which accompanies each load and mail it immediately to the committee office.

(v) Each processor who receives cull onions shall make available at its business office at any reasonable time during business hours, copies of all applicable purchase orders, sales contracts, or disposition documents for examination by the Department or by the committee, together with any other information which the committee or the Department may deem necessary to enable it to determine the disposition of the onions.

(vi) If a processor employs a subcontractor for any stage of processing, such processor shall be responsible for ensuring that the subcontractor accounts for all quantities of onions received and processed or otherwise disposed of, and that the subcontractor reports to the committee in the same manner and frequently as the processor.

(5) Cull onions transported in bags shall be transported in unlabelled bags, or shall have labelled bags reversed so that the label is not visible.
