
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 966 - TOMATOES GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 966.42 Assessments.

(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who first handles tomatoes shall pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the committee's expenses.

(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of the committee's recommendations and other available information. Such rates may be applied to specified containers used in the production area.

(c) At any time during, or subsequent to, a given fiscal period the committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendations, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the rate of assessment. Such increase shall be applicable to all tomatoes which were regulated under this part and which were shipped by the first handler thereof during such fiscal period.

(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.

(e) In order to provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part, the committee may accept the payment of assessments in advance, or may borrow money on a short-term basis not to exceed one full-year coinciding with the existing committee's term of office. The authority of the committee to borrow money may be used only to meet financial obligations as they occur and to allow the committee a season to adjust its reserve funds to meet any additional obligations.
