
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 966 - TOMATOES GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Safeguards
####### ยง 966.124 Approved receiver.
######## Approved receiver.

(a)Any person who desires to acquire, as an approved receiver, tomatoes for purposes as set forth in ยง 966.120(a), shall annually, prior thereto, file an application with the committee on a form approved by it, which shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:

(1) Name, address, contact person, telephone number, and e-mail address of applicant;

(2) Purpose of shipment;

(3) Physical address of where manufacturing or other specified purpose is to occur;

(4) Whether or not the receiver packs, repacks or sells fresh tomatoes;

(5) A statement that the tomatoes obtained exempt from the fresh tomato regulations will not be resold or transferred for resale, directly or indirectly, but will be used only for the purpose specified in the corresponding certificate of privilege;

(6) A statement agreeing to undergo random inspection by the committee;

(7) A statement agreeing to submit such reports as is required by the committee.

(b) The committee, or its duly authorized agents, shall give prompt consideration to each application for an approved receiver and shall determine whether the application is approved or disapproved and notify the applicant accordingly.

(c) The committee, or its duly authorized agents, may rescind a person's approved receiver status upon proof satisfactory that such a receiver has handled tomatoes contrary to the provisions established under the Certificate of Privilege. Such action rescinding approved receiver status shall apply to and not exceed a reasonable period of time as determined by the committee or its duly authorized agents. Any person who has been denied as an approved receiver or who has had their approved receiver status rescinded, may appeal to the committee for reconsideration. Such an appeal shall be made in writing.
