
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 966 - TOMATOES GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Interpretative Rules
####### ยง 966.150 Meaning of "producer".

The term "producer" is defined in ยง 966.8 as being any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of tomatoes for market. Under the definition of "tomatoes" in ยง 966.5, such production must have been in the production area. Section 966.22 provides that each person selected as a committee member or alternate must be a producer, or an officer or an employee of a corporate producer. Section 966.27 provides that producers may vote for nominees for members and alternates on the Florida Tomato Committee, the administrative agency established pursuant to said marketing agreement and order. Section 966.3 defines a person as an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit. The term "person" is construed to mean the business unit which produces the tomatoes for market.

(a) The prevailing principle which shall apply to the determination of "producer" is who or which interest as a unit, whether an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit, has the authority to pass title to the tomatoes grown and made a part of the marketable supply of tomatoes. In other words, the terms shall be limited to those who have an ownership in tomatoes produced in the production area.
