
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 966 - TOMATOES GROWN IN FLORIDA
##### Subpart D - Handling Requirements
###### ยง 966.323 Handling regulation.
####### Safeguards.

(c)Each handler making shipments of tomatoes for pickling, canning, experimental purposes, relief, charity, or export in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section shall:

(1) Apply to the committee and obtain a Certificate of Privilege to make such shipments.

(2) Prepare on forms furnished by the committee a report in quadruplicate on such shipments authorized in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) Bill or consign each shipment directly to the designated applicable receiver.

(4) Forward one copy of such report to the committee office and two copies to the receiver for signing and returning one copy to the committee office. Failure of the handler or receiver to report such shipments by signing and returning the applicable report to the committee office within ten days after shipment may be cause for cancellation of such handler's certificate and/or receiver's eligibility to receive further shipments pursuant to such certificate. Upon cancellation of any such certificate, the handler may appeal to the committee for reconsideration.

(5) Make shipments only to those who have qualified with the committee as approved receivers.
