
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 980 - VEGETABLES; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 980.1 Import regulations; Irish potatoes.
###### Findings and determinations with respect to imports of Irish potatoes.

(a)(1) Pursuant to section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), it is hereby found that:

(i) Grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been issued from time to time pursuant to the following marketing orders: No. 945 (part 945 of this chapter), No. 948 (part 948 of this chapter), No. 947 (part 947 of this chapter), No. 946 (part 946 of this chapter), and No. 953 (part 953 of this chapter).

(ii) During the past several years, grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been in effect pursuant to two or more of such orders during each month of the year;

(iii) The marketing of Irish potatoes can be reasonably distinguished by the several seasonal categories, i.e., winter, early spring, late spring, early summer, late summer, and fall. The bulk of the fall crop is harvested and placed in storage in the fall and marketed over a period of several months extending into the following summer. But potatoes harvested from the other seasonal crops are generally marketed as the potatoes are harvested. The marketing seasons for these crops overlap.

(iv) Concurrent grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations under two or more of the aforesaid marketing orders are expected in the ensuing and future seasons, as in the past.

(2) Therefore it is hereby determined that:

(i) Imports of red-skinned, round type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in the area covered by Marketing Order No. 946 (part 946 of this chapter).

(ii) Imports of all other round type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in Area 2, Colorado (San Luis Valley) covered by Marketing Order No. 948, as amended (part 948 of this chapter).

(iii) Imports of long type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in the area covered by Order No. 945 (part 945 of this chapter).
