
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 980 - VEGETABLES; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 980.117 Import regulations; onions.
###### Findings and determinations with respect to onions.

(a)(1) Under section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), it is hereby found that:

(i) Grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been issued regularly under Marketing Orders No. 958 and 959, both as amended;

(ii) Since December 9, 1985, grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been in effect pursuant to these orders during the period August through July;

(iii) The marketing of onions can be reasonably distinguished by the seasonal categories, i.e., late summer and early spring. The bulk of the late summer crop is harvested and placed in storage in late summer and early fall and marketed over a period of several months extending into the following spring. But the onions harvested from the early spring crop are generally marketed as soon as the onions are harvested. The marketing seasons for these crops overlap;

(iv) Concurrent grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations under the two marketing orders are expected in future seasons, as in the past.

(2) Therefore, it is hereby determined that: Imports of onions during the June 5 through March 9 period, and the entire year for imports of pearl and cipolline varieties of onions, are in most direct competition with the marketing of onions produced in designated counties of Idaho and Malheur County, Oregon, covered by Marketing Order No. 958, as amended (7 CFR Part 958) and during the March 10 through June 4 period the marketing of imported onions, not including pearl or cipolline varieties of onions, is in most direct competition with onions produced in designated counties in South Texas covered by Marketing Order No. 959, as amended (7 CFR part 959).
