
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Almond Board of California
####### ยง 981.32 Nominations.
######## Voting.

(b)(1) Nominees for each member and alternate member position shall be voted upon separately by the group proposing them. The handler or grower group which is determined to be eligible for additional representation pursuant to ยง 981.31 (e) and (f), respectively, shall nominate such representatives in the same manner prescribed for choosing other nominees.

(2) Each handler may vote for a nominee for each position representing the group to which he belongs. Each handler vote shall be weighted by the quantity of almonds (kernel weight basis computed to the nearest whole ton) handled for his own account through December 31 of the crop year in which nominations are made. The nominee for each position shall be the person receiving the highest weighted vote for the position.

(3) Growers who market their almonds through cooperative handlers shall vote through their respective organizations. Each cooperative shall cast a vote for nominees for each position representing the cooperative grower group and such ballots shall be weighted by the number of growers who are members of, or under contract with, such cooperative. The nominee for each position shall be the person receiving the highest weighted vote for that position.

(4) Growers who market their almonds through other than cooperative handlers shall each have one equal vote. The nominees for each position representing such grower group shall be the person receiving the highest number of votes for that position.
