
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Almond Board of California
####### § 981.33 Selection and term of office.

(a) Members and their respective alternates for positions open on the Board shall be selected by the Secretary from persons nominated pursuant to § 981.32, or, at the discretion of the Secretary, from other qualified persons, for a term of office beginning August 1. Members and alternates shall continue to serve until their respective successors are selected and qualified.

(b) The term of office of members of the Board shall be for a period of three years beginning on August 1 of the years selected except where otherwise provided. However, for the initial eight members of the Board selected pursuant to this section and to paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 981.31, two members shall serve for a term of one year; three members shall serve for a term of two years; and three members shall serve for a term of three years. For the initial terms of office, at the time of nomination under § 981.32, the Board shall make this designation by lot. The term of office for the two members selected under paragraph (c) of § 981.31 shall always be for a period of one year.

(c) Board members may serve for a total of six consecutive years. Members who have served for six consecutive years must leave the Board for at least one year before becoming eligible to serve again. A person who has served less than six consecutive years on the Board may not be nominated to a new three year term if his or her total consecutive years on the Board at the end of that new term would exceed six years. This limitation on tenure shall not apply to alternate members.

(d) The Board may recommend, subject to approval of the Secretary, revisions to the start date for the term of office of members of the Board.
