
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Disposition of Reserve
####### ยง 981.67 Disposition by handler.

Upon request of a handler, made prior to the delivery by him of any reserve to the Board in any crop year, the Board shall authorize such handler to act as agent of the Board, upon such reasonable terms and conditions, including inspection and certification requirements, as the Board may specify and subject to the conditions of ยง 981.66 in disposing of the reserve withheld from handling by such handler for that crop year. Any handler who is authorized to dispose of his reserve may, through arrangement with another handler dispose of such reserve through such other handler or, in lieu of disposition, may acquire credits for reserve disposition from another handler. In the first instance, the second handler shall also be subject to the conditions of ยง 981.66. It shall be the obligation of any handler authorized to dispose of such reserve to effect disposition thereof in accordance with all applicable requirements and conditions. The proceeds of such disposition shall be retained by the handler making the disposition, except that, in case he disposes of the reserve of another handler, the proceeds from that disposition shall be divided between the two handlers on the basis of a mutual agreement. Such authorization shall expire as of December 31 of the next crop year, and any reserve then remaining undisposed of by the handler shall be returned to the Board. If the date of December 31 specified in ยง 981.66(e) is extended, the date of December 31 shall be extended correspondingly. Any handler who has been authorized to act as agent of the Board in disposing of his reserve may terminate such agency as of April 1 of the particular crop year by giving written notice to the Board to that effect not later than the previous March 20, in which event such handler shall return to the Board, for disposition by it, all reserve almonds remaining in his possession. In case a handler does not terminate his agency as of April 1, he shall be required to continue to serve as such agent until December 31 of the next crop year. The Board shall not terminate such an agency prior to December 31 unless the agent violates the terms and conditions specified by the Board or other provisions of the order. During the period of such agency the Board, as principal, shall not dispose of the reserve withheld from handling by said agent. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary may prescribe such rules and regulations as are necessary to regulate disposition of reserve almonds including methods for crediting as reserve any salable almonds sold and delivered to reserve outlets.
