
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 981.81 Assessment.
######## Refunds.

(b)Any money collected as assessments for either the administrative (maintenance and functioning) or research activities of the Board and not used for the expenses of the applicable crop year, may be used in paying the Board's expenses of the first four months of the succeeding crop year. No later than the fifth month the amount not expended from assessments collected for administrative-research in the previous crop year shall be retained in the operating reserve fund. Any amounts, not credited pursuant to ยง 981.41 for a crop year may be used by the Board for its marketing promotion expenses of the succeeding crop year, and any unexpended portion of those amounts at the end of that crop year shall be retained in the marketing promotion portion of the operating reserve fund. Any funds in each portion of the operating reserve fund in excess of the level authorized pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall be refunded to handlers or used to reduce the assessment rate of the subsequent crop year, as the Board may determine. Each handler's share of a refund shall be the amount by which his payment of assessments exceeds his pro rata share of the two major classifications of Board expenses. For the purpose of computing any refund from the marketing promotion portion, each handler's payment of assessments shall include any amount credited to the handler pursuant to ยง 981.41. In lieu of a refund, each handler may have the amount due him credited to his assessment obligation of the crop year in which the amount would be refunded.
