
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart C - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 981.441 Credit for market promotion activities, including paid advertising.

(a) In order for a handler to receive credit for his/her own promotional activities from his/her pro rata portion of advertising assessment payments, pursuant to ยง 981.41(c), the Board must determine that such expenditures meet the applicable requirements of this section. Credit will be granted either in the form of a payment from the Board, or as an offset to that portion of the assessment if activities are conducted and documented to the satisfaction of the Board at least 2 weeks prior to the Board's first and second assessment billings, and at least 3 weeks prior to the Board's third and fourth assessment billings in a crop year. Credit, hereinafter termed "Credit-Back", will be granted in an amount not to exceed 66percent of a handler's proven expenditures for qualified activities.

(b) The portion of the handler assessment for which credit may be received under this section will be billed, and is due and payable, at the same time as the portion of the handler assessment used for the Board's administrative expenses, unless the handler(s) conduct and document activities at least 2 weeks prior to the first and second assessment billings and 3 weeks prior to the third and fourth assessment billings. If the handler(s) conduct activities and submit documentation according to applicable provisions in this section, their advertising assessment obligation will be reduced according to the amount of proven activities approved by the Board.

(c) The Board shall grant Credit-Back for qualifying activities only to the handler who performed such activities and who filed a claim for Credit-Back in accordance with this section.

(d) Credit-Back shall be granted only for qualified promotional activities which are conducted and completed during the crop year for which Credit-Back is requested.

(e) The following requirements shall apply to Credit-Back for all promotional activities:

(1) Credit-Back granted by the Board shall be that which is appropriate when compared to accepted professional practices and rates for the type of activity conducted. In the case of claims for Credit-Back activities not covered by specific and established criteria, the Board shall grant the claim if it is consistent with practices and rates for similar activities. To this end, the Board may issue guidelines for qualifying activities from time to time as warranted. For activities in markets other than the United States and Canada, paragraph (e)(5) of this section shall also apply.

(2) The clear and evident purpose of each activity shall be to promote the sale, consumption or use of California almonds, and nothing therein shall detract from this purpose.
