
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart C - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 981.441 Credit for market promotion activities, including paid advertising.
####### Provided,

(ii) Handlers may receive credit against their assessment obligation up to the advertising amount of the assessment installment due:That handlers submit the required documentation for a qualified activity at least 2 weeks prior to the mailing of the Board's first and second assessment notices, and at least 3 weeks prior to the mailing of the Board's third and fourth assessment notices in a crop year. In all other instances, handlers must remit the advertising assessment to the Board when billed, and a refund will be issued to the extent of proven, qualified activities.

(iii) Checks from the Board in payment of approved Credit-Back claims will be mailed to handlers on February 15, April 15, June 15, and 30 days after submission of final claims for the crop year pursuant to paragraph (e)(6)(iv) of this section. To receive payment on these dates, handler claims must be submitted, with all required elements, at least one month prior to the payment date. A handler can receive Credit-Back for his/her allowable direct expenditures only up to the amount of that portion of the handler's assessment designated for marketing promotion, including paid advertising.

(iv) A statement of the Credit-Back commitments outstanding as of the close of a crop year must be submitted in full to the Board within 15 days after the close of that crop year. Final claims pertaining to such commitments outstanding must be submitted with all required elements within 76 days after the close of that crop year. All other final claims for which no statement of Credit-Back commitments outstanding has been filed must be submitted by August 15 of that calendar year.
