
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart C - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 981.442 Quality control.
####### Salmonella

(i) Validation means that the treatment technology and equipment have been demonstrated to achieve in total a minimum 4-log reduction ofbacteria in almonds. Validation data prepared by a Board-approved process authority must be submitted to and accepted by the TERP for each piece of equipment used to treat almonds prior to its use under the program.

(ii) A process authority is a person that has expert knowledge of appropriate processes for the treatment of almonds as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and meets the following criteria:

(A) Knowledge about the equipment used for the treatment process;

(B) Experience in conducting appropriate studies to determine the ability of the equipment to deliver the appropriate treatment (such as heat penetration or heat distribution); and

(C) Able to determine that sufficient data has been gathered to identify the critical factors needed to ensure the quality of the final product.

(iii) Process authorities may be employees of the entity for which they are conducting validation. The Board shall provide process authorities specific protocols and parameters for treatment processes that are FDA determined or TERP accepted.

(iv) Process authorities must submit an initial application to the Board on ABC Form No. 51, "Application for Process Authority for Almonds," and be approved by the TERP. Should the applicant disagree with the TERP's decision concerning approval, the applicant may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. For subsequent crop years, approved applicants with no changes to their initial application must send the Board a letter, signed and dated, indicating that there are no changes to the application the Board has on file.

(v) The TERP may revoke any approval for cause. The TERP shall notify the process authority in writing of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the process authority disagree with the TERP's decision, he/she may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. A process authority whose approval has been revoked must submit a new application to the TERP and await approval.
