
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart C - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 981.442 Quality control.
####### Compliance and verification.,Salmonella

(4)In accordance with the requirements of this paragraph, handlers shall utilize either an on-site verification program (traditional), or an audit-based verification program to ensure that their almonds have been subjected to a treatment process to reducebacteria prior to shipment. Each handler may decide which verification program would be the most cost-effective for his or her operation.

(i) By May 31, each handler shall submit to the Board a Treatment Plan for the upcoming crop year. A Treatment Plan shall describe how a handler plans to treat his or her almonds, and must address specific parameters as outlined by the Board for the handler to ship almonds. Such plan shall be reviewed by the Board, in conjunction with the inspection agency, to ensure it is complete and can be verified, and be approved by the Board. Almonds sent by a handler for treatment to an off-site facility affiliated with another handler shall be subject to the approved Treatment Plan utilized at that facility. Handlers shall follow their own approved Treatment Plans for almonds sent to an off-site facility that is not affiliated with another handler.

(ii) Handlers utilizing an on-site verification program shall cause the inspection agency to verify that their Treatment Plans have been followed, and that their almonds have been subjected to a treatment process that has been validated by a Board-approved process authority. Such handlers shall submit, or cause to be submitted, a verification report to the Board. The inspection agency must physically observe the treatment process to issue such report.

(iii) Handlers utilizing an audit-based verification program shall be subject to periodic audits conducted by the inspection agency. The inspection agency shall provide copies of the audit report to the Board. Handlers who do not comply with an audit-based verification program shall be required to revert to an on-site verification program.

(iv) Interhandler transfers of almonds may or may not be treated prior to transfer. Handlers receiving untreated almonds from another handler shall be responsible for treating the product. Handlers receiving treated almonds from another handler must have procedures outlined in their Treatment Plan addressing how the integrity of the treated almonds will be maintained. In all instances involving interhandler transfers, the receiving handler shall be responsible for ensuring that the almonds are treated prior to shipment and maintaining documentation to that effect.

(v) An off-site treatment facility that does not handle almonds, pursuant to ยง 981.16, shall provide access to the inspection agency and Board staff for verification of treatment and review of treatment records. A treatment process at an off-site treatment facility that has been validated by a Board approved process authority is deemed to be approved by the Board for handler use. The Board may revoke any such approval for cause. The Board shall notify the off-site treatment facility of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the off-site facility disagree with the Board's decision, it may appeal the decision in writing to USDA. Handlers may treat their almonds only at off-site treatment facilities that have been deemed to be approved by the Board.
