
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart C - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 981.442 Quality control.
####### Accepted users.

(7)An accepted user's eligibility shall be subject to the following criteria:

(i) Annual completion of an application with the Board for accepted user status;

(ii) Annual submission of a business data sheet to the Board;

(iii) Annual submission of an Accepted User Plan (Form ABC 30) to the Board by July 31 of each year;

(iv) The accurate and prompt submission of Form ABC 8, Part B, to the Board for each lot of almonds received. Each lot of inedible almonds received must be documented by a public weighmaster weight certificate issued at the request of the accepted user at the time of receipt of the lot. Weighmaster weight certificates must be submitted to the Board within 10 business days of issuance;

(v) Disposal of inedible almond material within 6 months of receipt; and

(vi) Disposal of inedible almond material received with no transfer of the material between accepted users.

(vii) The Board may deny or revoke accepted user status at any time if the applicant or accepted user fails to meet the terms and conditions of ยง 981.442, or if the applicant or accepted user fails to meet the terms and conditions set forth in the accepted user application (Form ABC 34).

(viii) The eligibility of accepted users shall be reviewed annually by the Board. Handlers will not receive credit towards their disposition obligations pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section for inedible lots where the difference between the weight of the lot reported by the inspection agency on Form ABC 8 and the weight of the lot reported on the public weighmaster weight certificate exceeds 2.0 percent.
