
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart C - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 981.442 Quality control.
####### Salmonella

(C) Have their treatment technology and equipment validated by a Board-approved process authority, and provide documentation with their DV application to verify that their treatment technology and equipment have been validated by a Board-approved process authority. Such documentation may include, but not be limited to, a letter from such process authority certifying the validation. Such documentation shall be sufficient to demonstrate that the treatment processes and equipment achieve a 4-log reduction inbacteria. Treatment technology and equipment that have been modified to a point where operating parameters such as time, temperature, or volume change, shall be revalidated;

(D) Have their technology and procedures verified by a Board-approved DV auditor to ensure they are being applied appropriately. A DV auditor may not be an employee of the manufacturer that he/she is auditing. DV auditors must submit a report to the Board after conducting each audit. DV auditors must submit an initial application to the Board on ABC Form No. 53, "Application for Direct Verifiable (DV) Program Auditors," and be approved by the TERP. Should the applicant disagree with the TERP's decision concerning approval, it may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. For subsequent crop years, approved DV auditors with no changes to their initial application must send the Board a letter, signed and dated, indicating that there are no changes to the application the Board has on file. The TERP may revoke any approval for cause. The TERP shall notify the DV auditor in writing of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the DV auditor disagree with the TERP's decision, it may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. A DV auditor whose approval has been revoked must submit a new application to the TERP and await approval;

(E) Maintain all records regarding validation and verification of treatment methods, processing, and product traceability. Such records shall be retained for two years and shall be made available for review by the Board; and,

(F) Ship any almonds which will not be treated to a handler, to another approved DV user, to locations outside the U.S., Canada, and Mexico (containers must remain identified with the term "unpasteurized"), as specified in ยง 981.442(b)(6)(i), or dispose of such almonds in non-edible channels.

(ii) Handlers may ship untreated almonds directly or through a third party to locations outside the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, provided that each container of such almonds is identified with the term "unpasteurized." Such lettering shall be on one outside principal display panel, at leastinch in height, clear and legible. If a third party is involved in the transaction, the handler must provide sufficient documentation to the Board to track the shipment from the handler's facility to the importer in the foreign country.
