
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 981 - ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart C - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 981.442 Quality control.
####### Exemptions.

(6)Handlers may ship untreated almonds under the following conditions. For purposes of this section, container means a box, bin, bag, carton, or any other type of receptacle used in the packaging of bulk almonds.

(i) Handlers may ship untreated almonds for further processing directly to manufacturers located within the U.S., Canada or Mexico. This program shall be termed the Direct Verifiable (DV) program. Handlers may only ship untreated almonds to manufacturers who have submitted ABC Form No. 52, "Application for Direct Verifiable (DV) Program for Further Processing of Untreated Almonds," and have been approved by the TERP. Such almonds must be shipped directly to approved manufacturing locations, as specified on Form No. 52. Such manufacturers DV users must submit an initial Form No. 52 to the Board and be approved by the TERP. Should the applicant disagree with the TERP's decision concerning approval, it may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. For subsequent crop years, approved applicants with no changes to their initial application must send the Board a letter, signed and dated, indicating that there are no changes to the application the Board has on file. The TERP may revoke any approval for cause. The TERP shall notify the manufacturer in writing of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the manufacturer disagree with the TERP's decision, it may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. A manufacturer whose approval has been revoked must submit a new application to the TERP and await approval. The Board shall issue a DV User code to an approved manufacturer. Handlers must reference such code in all documentation accompanying the lot and identify each container of such almonds with the term "unpasteurized." Such lettering shall be on one outside principal display panel, at leastinch in height, clear and legible. If a third party is involved in the transaction, the handler must provide sufficient documentation to the Board to track the shipment from the handler's facility to the approved DV user. While a third party may be involved in such transactions, shipments to a third party and then to a manufacturing location are not permitted under the DV program. Approved DV Users shall:
