
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 982 - HAZELNUTS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Hazelnut Control Board
####### ยง 982.30 Establishment and membership.

(a) There is hereby established a Hazelnut Marketing Board consisting of 10 members, each of whom shall have an alternate member, to administer the terms and provisions of this part. Each member and alternate shall meet the same eligibility qualifications. The 10 member positions shall be allocated as follows:

(b) Four of the members shall represent handlers, as follows:

(1) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made;

(2) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the second largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made;

(3) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the third largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made;

(4) The fourth handler member shall be nominated by and represent all other handlers.

(c) Five members shall represent growers and shall be nominated for the districts designated in or established pursuant to ยง 982.31. One grower member shall represent each of the five grower districts unless changes are made pursuant to ยง 982.31(b).

(d) One member shall be a public member who is neither a grower nor a handler.

(e) The Secretary, or the Board with the approval of the Secretary, may revise the handler representation on the Board if the Board ceases to be representative of the industry.
