
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 982 - HAZELNUTS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Hazelnut Control Board
####### ยง 982.34 Qualification.

(a) Any person prior to selection as a member or an alternate member of the Board shall qualify by filing with the Secretary a written acceptance of willingness to serve on the Board.

(b) Each grower member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a grower or an officer, employee, or agent of a grower in the district for which nominated.

(c) Each handler member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a handler or an officer, employee, or agent of a handler.

(d) Any member or alternate member who at the time of selection was a member (or employed by or an agent of a member) of the group which nominated that person shall, upon ceasing to be such, become disqualified to serve further and that position shall be deemed vacant. In the event any grower member or alternate member of the Board handles hazelnuts produced by other growers or becomes an employee or agent of a handler, that person shall be disqualified to continue to serve on the Board in that capacity.

(e) No person nominated to serve as a public member or alternate member shall have a financial interest in any hazelnut growing or handling operation.

(f) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may issue rules and regulations covering matters of qualifications for members or alternate members.
