
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 982 - HAZELNUTS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Marketing Policy
####### ยง 982.40 Marketing policy and volume regulation.
######## Interim final and final percentages.

(2)On or before November 15, the Board shall meet to recommend to the Secretary the interim final and final free and restricted percentages, including the portion of the restricted supply that may be shelled or exported. The interim final percentages shall release 100 percent of the inshell trade demand previously computed by the Board for the marketing year. The final free and restricted percentages may release an additional 15 percent of the average of the preceding three years' trade acquisitions of inshell hazelnuts for desirable carryout. If the trade acquisitions during any or all of these years were abnormal, the Board may use a prior year or years in determining this three-year average. The final free and restricted percentages shall become effective 30 days prior to the end of the marketing year, or earlier as may be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. The recommendations to the Secretary shall include the following:

(i) The estimated tonnage of merchantable hazelnuts expected to be produced during the marketing year.

(ii) The estimated tonnage of inshell hazelnuts held by handlers on the first day of the marketing year which may be available for handling as inshell hazelnuts thereafter.

(iii) Any other pertinent factors bearing on the marketing of hazelnuts during the marketing year.
