
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 982 - HAZELNUTS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Control of Distribution
####### ยง 982.51 Restricted credit for ungraded inshell hazelnuts and for shelled hazelnuts.

(a) A handler may withhold ungraded inshell hazelnuts in lieu of certified merchantable hazelnuts in satisfaction of that handler's restricted obligations, and the weight on which credit may be received shall be the shelled hazelnut equivalent weight as inspected by the Federal-State Inspection Service multiplied by 2.5. Any lot of ungraded hazelnuts not meeting the moisture requirements for certified merchantable hazelnuts shall not be eligible for credit. All determinations as to the shelled hazelnut equivalent weight shall be made by the Federal-State Inspection Service at the handler's expense. Hazelnuts so withheld shall be subject to the applicable requirements of ยง 982.50. The weight of all such lots for which a handler has received credit shall be adjusted by the Board when the lots are handled or disposed of so that the creditable weight is equal to the amount of certified merchantable inshell hazelnuts or certified shelled hazelnuts that are subsequently handled or disposed of from those lots. If this adjustment causes the handler to no longer be in satisfaction of that handler's restricted obligation as required by ยง 982.50, the deficiency shall be satisfied in the subsequent marketing year. If this adjustment results in a handler disposing of, in restricted outlets, a quantity in excess of that handler's restricted obligation, such excess shall not be credited to such handler's restricted obligation during the subsequent marketing year.

(b) A handler may withhold, in accordance with ยง 982.50(a), certified shelled hazelnuts in lieu of merchantable hazelnuts in satisfaction of such handler's restricted obligation, subject to such terms and conditions as are recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary. The inshell equivalent of such hazelnuts shall be determined by multiplying the weight of the shelled hazelnuts by 2.5.

(c) The Secretary upon recommendation of the Board and other available data may modify these procedures, change the conversion factors, and specify factors for conversion for different varieties of hazelnuts.
