
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 982 - HAZELNUTS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Control of Distribution
####### ยง 982.52 Disposition of restricted hazelnuts.
######## Export.

(b)Sales of certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts for shipment to destinations outside the continental United States and such other distribution areas as may be recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary shall be made only by the Board. Any handler desiring to export any part or all of that handler's certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts shall deliver to the Board the certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts to be exported, but the Board shall be obligated to sell in export only such quantities for which it may be able to find satisfactory export outlets. Any hazelnuts so delivered for export which the Board is unable to export shall be returned to the handler delivering them. Sales for export shall be made by the Board only on execution of an agreement to prevent exportation into the area designated in ยง 982.16. A handler may be permitted to act as an agent of the Board, upon such terms and conditions as the Board may specify, in negotiating export sales, and when so acting shall be entitled to receive a selling commission as authorized by the Board. The proceeds of all export sales, after deducting all expenses actually and necessarily incurred, shall be paid to the handler whose certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts are so sold by the Board.
