
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 983 - PISTACHIOS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA, ARIZONA, AND NEW MEXICO
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### § 983.150 Aflatoxin regulations.
####### Certification of lots "negative" as to aflatoxin.

(4)(i) Lots which require a single test sample will be certified as "negative" on the aflatoxin certificate if the sample has an aflatoxin level at or below 15 ppb. If the aflatoxin level is above 15 ppb, the lot fails and the accredited laboratory shall fill out a failed lot notification report as specified in §§ 983.52 and 983.152.

(ii) Lots which require two test samples will be certified as "negative" on the aflatoxin inspection certificate if Test Sample #1 has an aflatoxin level at or below 10 ppb. If the aflatoxin level of Test Sample #1 is above 20 ppb, the lot fails and the accredited laboratory shall fill out a failed lot notification report as specified in §§ 983.52 and 983.152. If the aflatoxin level of Test Sample #1 is above 10 ppb and at or below 20 ppb, the accredited laboratory may at the handler's discretion analyze Test Sample #2 and the test results of Test Samples #1 and #2 will be averaged. Alternately, the handler may elect to withdraw the lot from testing, rework the lot, and resubmit it for testing after reworking. If the handler directs the laboratory to proceed with the analysis of Test Sample #2, a lot will be certified as negative to aflatoxin and the laboratory shall issue an aflatoxin inspection certificate if the averaged results of Test Sample #1 and Test Sample #2 is at or below 15 ppb. If the averaged aflatoxin level of Test Samples #1 and #2 is above 15 ppb, the lot fails and the accredited laboratory shall fill out a failed lot notification report as specified in §§ 983.52 and 983.152.

(iii) The accredited laboratory shall send a copy of the failed lot notification report to the Committee and to the failed lot's owner within 10 working days of any failure described in this section. If the lot is certified as negative as described in this section, the aflatoxin inspection certificate shall certify the lot using a certification form identifying each lot by weight, grade, and date. The certification expires for the lot or remainder of the lot after 12 months.
