
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 983 - PISTACHIOS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA, ARIZONA, AND NEW MEXICO
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 983.150 Aflatoxin regulations.
####### Test samples for aflatoxin.

(2)Prior to submission of samples to an accredited laboratory for aflatoxin analysis, one sample ("test sample") shall be created from the pistachios designated for aflatoxin testing in compliance with Tables 1 and 2 of this paragraph for inshell and kernel pistachio lots that weigh up to and including 4,400 pounds. For lot sizes larger than 4,400 pounds, two samples ("test samples") shall be created equally from the pistachios designated for aflatoxin testing in compliance with the requirements to Tables 1 and 2 of this paragraph. The test samples shall be prepared by, or under the supervision of an inspector, or as approved under an alternative USDA-recognized inspection program. The test samples shall be designated by an inspector as Test Sample #1 and Test Sample #2. Each sample shall be placed in a suitable container, with the lot number clearly identified, and then submitted to an accredited laboratory. The gross weight of the inshell lot sample for aflatoxin testing and the minimum number of incremental samples required are shown in Table 1 of this paragraph. The gross weight of the kernel lot sample for aflatoxin testing and the minimum number of incremental samples required is shown in the Table 2 of this paragraph.
