
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 984 - WALNUTS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 984.51 Inspection and certification of inshell and shelled walnuts.

(a) Before or upon handling of any walnuts, each handler at his or her own expense shall cause such walnuts to be inspected to determine whether they meet the then-applicable grade and size regulations. Such inspection shall be performed by the inspection service or services designated by the Board with the approval of the Secretary; Provided, that if more than one inspection service is designated, the functions performed by each service shall be separate, and shall not duplicate each other. Handlers shall obtain a certificate for each inspection and cause a copy of each certificate issued by the inspection service to be furnished to the Board. Each certificate shall show the identity of the handler, quantity of walnuts, the date of inspection, and for inshell walnuts, the grade and size of such walnuts as set forth in the United States Standards for Walnuts (Juglans regia) in the Shell. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe procedures for the administration of this provision.

(b) Inshell merchantable walnuts certified shall be converted to the kernelweight equivalent at 45 percent of their inshell weight. This conversion percentage may be changed by the Board with the approval of the Secretary.

(c) Upon inspection, walnuts shall be identified by tags, stamps, or other means of identification prescribed by the Board and affixed to the container by the handler under the supervision of the Board or of a designated inspector and such identification shall not be altered or removed except as directed by the Board. The assessment requirements in ยง 984.69 shall be incurred at the time of certification.

(d) Whenever the Board determines that the length of time in storage or conditions of storage of any lot of merchantable walnuts which has been previously inspected have been or are such as normally to cause deterioration, such lot of walnuts shall be reinspected at the handler's expense and recertified as merchantable prior to shipment.
