
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 984 - WALNUTS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Marketing Policy
####### ยง 984.49 Volume regulation.
######## Revision of percentages.

(b)(1) On or before February 15 of the marketing year, the Board may recommend that the free percentage be increased and the reserve percentage be decreased. On the basis of the Board's recommendation or other information the Secretary may establish such revisions. If the reserve percentage is reduced when an export percentage is in effect, an increase shall be made in the export percentage so that the quantity previously authorized for export will not be reduced. If the revised reserve quantity is less than the quantity previously authorized for export the export percentage shall be 100 percent. Upon revision, all reserve obligations that are theretofore accrued on merchantable walnuts certified during such year on the basis of the previously effective percentages shall be adjusted accordingly.

(2) Any time prior to July 1, the Board may recommend an increase in the export percentage, if it finds that there is an insufficient volume of reserve walnuts available for export and additional demand exists, which would not adversely affect the disposition of the oncoming crop. On the basis of the Board's recommendation or other information, the Secretary may establish such revision.
