
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.5 Contracts between commodity suppliers and importers.
##### Commodity suppliers and selling agents.

(a)(1) Commodity suppliers must be determined to be eligible under the Pub. L. 480, title I program in order for their contracts to be eligible for CCC financing. A prospective commodity supplier must be engaged in the business of selling agricultural commodities for export from the United States. The commodity supplier must maintain a bona fide business office in the United States, and must have a person, principal or agent on whom service of judicial process may be had in the United States.

(2) Persons who wish to participate as commodity suppliers shall submit the following information to the Foreign Agricultural Service, Stop 1033, USDA, 1400 Independence Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20250-1033:

(i) A current financial statement of the prospective supplier, preferably an audited statement, as evidence of financial responsibility. Submission of a letter of reference from a bank is also encouraged.

(ii) A statement containing general background information about the firm, including the names and titles of the chief executive officers and a description of the firm's experience as an exporter of U.S. agricultural commodities. Copies of bills of lading supporting this statement are also requested.

(iii) Any other information requested relating to whether the prospective supplier is responsible and is able to perform its obligations under this part and the purchase authorization.

(3) If, at the time the commodity supplier reports the sale it is determined that an agent employed or engaged by a commodity supplier to obtain a contract is not a selling agent as defined in ยง 17.2, the sale will not be eligible for financing.
