
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.5 Contracts between commodity suppliers and importers.
##### Eligibility for financing.

(b)To be eligible for financing, commodity contracts must comply with the following requirements unless otherwise specified in the purchase authorization.

(1) Commodity contracts between suppliers and importers are considered to be conditioned on the approval by USDA of the contract price; conformance of the sale to the provisions of the purchase authorization; responsiveness of the offer to IFB terms; and compliance by the supplier and the selling agent, if any, with paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Importers and suppliers must enter into contracts within the contracting period specified in the purchase authorization. The contracts must provide for deliveries to the importer in accordance with the delivery terms and during the delivery period specified in the purchase authorization, or any amendment or modification thereto.

(3) Contracts for a commodity, under a purchase authorization which limits delivery terms to f.o.b. or f.a.s., must be separate and apart from the contracts for ocean transportation of the commodity.

(4) The supplier's sales price may not exceed the prevailing range of export market prices as applied to the terms of sale at the time of sale, as determined by USDA. The "time of sale" is the date and time specified in the IFB for receipt of offers; or the date of the contract amendment if the amendment affects the sale price, as determined by USDA. The contract price may not be on a cost plus a percentage-of-cost basis.
