
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.5 Contracts between commodity suppliers and importers.
##### Contract awards.

(3)(i) The importer shall consider only offers which are responsive to the IFB and shall make awards either on the basis of the lowest commodity price(s) offered or on the basis of lowest landed cost. However, when vessels offered under the flag of the participant, the importing country or the destination country; or vessels controlled by the participant, the importing country or the destination country are to be used, the participant must purchase commodities for shipment on such vessels only on the basis of the lowest commodity price(s) offered. This limitation may, however, be waived by the GSM:

(A) When the lowest commodity price(s) offered are in locations where vessels cannot reasonably be made available without a substantial increase in freight costs to the participant;

(B) For small quantities offered at additional loading points (in aggregate not more than 15 percent of the total tonnage offered by a vessel); or

(C) Where this limitation would conflict with the purposes of the program.

(ii) For purposes of this section, "lowest commodity price(s)" means the lowest commodity price(s) offered for loading onto the type of vessel (dry bulk carrier, tanker, etc.) to be utilized to carry the commodity purchased.

(iii) For purposes of this section, "lowest landed cost" means the combination of commodity price and ocean freight rate resulting in the lowest total cost to deliver the commodity to the importing country, considering the quantity which must be shipped on privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels, as determined by the Director. Lowest landed cost may be defined on either a foreign flag or U.S. flag basis. Awards may not be made on the lowest landed cost basis unless IFB's are issued for commodity and ocean freight so that all commodity and ocean freight offers are reviewed simultaneously.

(iv) Participants are encouraged to purchase commodities on the basis of lowest landed cost when U.S. flag vessels are to be used. If such commodity purchases are not made on the basis of lowest landed cost (U.S. flag), ocean freight differential payments will nonetheless be calculated on the rates of U.S. flag vessels which would represent the lowest landed cost.

(v) Announcement of awards shall be made in the United States. The importer shall promptly submit to the Director copies of all offers received with a copy of the IFB which was issued. No sale can be approved for financing until this information has been received by FAS. The decision of the GSM shall be final regarding the responsiveness of offers to IFB terms in the awarding of contracts.
