
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 985 - MARKETING ORDER REGULATING THE HANDLING OF SPEARMINT OIL PRODUCED IN THE FAR WEST
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Volume Limitations
####### ยง 985.53 Allotment base.
######## Provided,

(2) If a producer has spearmint planted by February 27, 1979, but has no sales history during the representative period, the producer's allotment base shall be established by multiplying its acreage to be harvested for spearmint oil by the average amount of oil per acre sold in the allotment base of other producers in the state or area, whichever is more representative, in which the acreage is located:That, the Committee shall review and adjust these allotment bases in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section on the basis of the producer's sales of spearmint oil.

(c) Periodically, but at least once every five years, the Committee shall review and adjust each producer's allotment base to recognize changes and trends in production and demand. Any such adjustment shall be made in accordance with a formula prescribed by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary.

(d)(1) Beginning with the 1982-83 marketing year, the Committee annually shall make additional allotment bases available for each class of oil in the amount of no more than 1 percent of the total allotment base for that class of oil. Fifty percent of these additional allotment bases shall be made available for new producers and 50 percent made available for existing producers.

(2) Any person may apply for an additional allotment base for any class of oil by filing an application with the Committee on or before December 1 of the marketing year preceding the marketing year for which the additional allotment bases will be made available.

(3) The Committee shall, with the approval of the Secretary, establish rules and regulations to be used for determining the distribution of additional allotment bases. In establishing such rules, the Committee shall take into account, among other things, the minimum economic enterprise requirements for oil production, the applicant's ability to produce oil, the area where the oil will be produced and other economic and marketing factors.

(e) The right to each producer receiving an allotment base, or any legal successor in interest, to retain all or part of an allotment base, shall be dependent on continuance to make a bona fide effort to produce the annual allotment referable thereto and failing to do so, such allotment base shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to such unproduced portions.
