
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 985 - MARKETING ORDER REGULATING THE HANDLING OF SPEARMINT OIL PRODUCED IN THE FAR WEST
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Volume Limitations
####### ยง 985.57 Reserve pool requirements.
######## Disposition.

(b)(1) When, in any marketing year, a producer has produced less than the annual allotment of a class of oil, the producer may, upon notification of the Committee, fill the deficiency with the same class of reserve oil from the producer's prior production.

(2) Prior to March 15 of any year, or such other date as recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary, a producer may notify the Committee of a possible deficiency in the producer's ensuing year's production of oil and wishes to use reserve oil from own production to fill the ensuing year's annual allotment. The Committee shall approve the producer's request if the oil is still available at the time of the request.

(3) Under supervision of the Committee, a producer may exchange salable oil for the same class and quantity of reserve oil from own production so long as the oil is properly identified.

(4) When the Committee finds that additional oil is needed to fill the normal market demand, it shall offer all or a portion of the reserve oil for sale to handlers. Offers to sell, extension of offers and withdrawal of offers shall be subject to disapproval by the Secretary. The Committee may establish rules and regulations governing the offers and sale to handlers.

(5) The Committee may use reserve oil for market development projects approved by the Secretary. Such projects may be conducted by the Committee or in conjunction with or through handlers.
