
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 985 - MARKETING ORDER REGULATING THE HANDLING OF SPEARMINT OIL PRODUCED IN THE FAR WEST
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### ยง 985.153 Issuance of additional allotment base to new and existing producers.
####### Region B.

(B)All areas of the production area outside the State of Washington.

(ii) The Committee shall review all requests from new producers for additional allotment base made available pursuant to ยง 985.53(d)(1).

(iii) Each year, the Committee shall determine the size of the minimum economic enterprise required to produce each class of oil. The Committee shall thereafter calculate the number of new producers who will receive allotment base under this section for each class of oil. The Committee shall include that information in its announcements to new producers in each region informing them when to submit requests for allotment base. The Committee shall determine whether the new producers requesting additional base have the ability to produce spearmint oil. The names of all eligible new producers from each region shall be placed in separate lots per class of oil. For each class of oil, separate drawings shall be held from a list of all applicants from Region A and from a list of all applicants from Region B. If, in any marketing year, there are no requests for additional base in a class of oil from eligible new producers in a region, such unallocated additional allotment base shall be issued to an eligible new producer whose name is selected by drawing from a list containing the names of all remaining eligible new producers from the other region for that class of oil. The Committee shall immediately notify each new producer whose name was drawn and issue that producer an allotment base in the appropriate amount. Allotment base issued to new producers under this section shall not be transferred for at least five years following issuance.
