
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.7 Notice of sale procedures.
##### Contract amendments.

(e)(1) The supplier and the participant or importer shall each submit a written notice of each contract amendment to the Director immediately after the amendment to the contract is made. This includes not only any change in the contract delivery period or any other terms and conditions of the contract as provided in the information given in the original notice of sale or any amendment thereto, but also any change in any other terms and conditions of the contract.

(2) The notice of contract amendment must contain the following:

(i) A request that USDA approve an amendment to the specifically identified sale contract between (the participant or importer) and (the commodity supplier).

(ii) A statement of what the amendment consists of (as, extension of delivery period through (date)) and a detailed explanation of the reasons for the amendment.

(iii) A statement that the contract amendment has been agreed to by both buyer and seller.

(3) Pub. Law 480 Operations Division, FAS, will notify the supplier as to whether the amendment is approved or disapproved.

(4) The supplier shall furnish a copy of the USDA approval of the amendment with other documentation submitted to obtain payment.

(5) If the supplier fails to furnish notice of a contract amendment to Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, FAS, within 3 working days after the date of such amendment, CCC has the right to refuse to finance the sale or any portion of the sale.

(6) Any amendment must be consistent with the provisions of the purchase authorization and this part and must otherwise be acceptable to Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, FAS.
