
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.8 Ocean transportation.
##### General.

(a)(1) This section applies to the financing of ocean freight or ocean freight differential. Ocean freight will be financed by CCC only to the extent specifically provided for in the purchase authorization. The purchase authorization may provide requirements in addition to or in lieu of those specified in this section.

(2) The supplier of ocean transportation must be engaged in the business of furnishing ocean transportation from the United States and must have a person, principal or agent, on whom service of judicial process may be had in the United States.

(3) The quantity of the commodity which must be shipped on privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels will be determined by the Director.

(4) The supplier of ocean transportation shall release copies of the ocean bills of lading to the supplier of the commodity promptly upon completion of loading of the vessel.

(5) When CCC finances any part of the ocean freight or the ocean freight differential, the participant must open an operable irrevocable letter of credit for the portion of the ocean freight not financed by CCC. All banking institution charges, such as commissions, expenses, etc., are for the account of the participant. The amount of the letter of credit shall be computed using the information provided in the Form CCC-106. The letter of credit shall provide for sight payment or acceptance of a draft, payable in U.S. dollars, on the basis of the quantities specified in the applicable ocean freight contract. If the supplier of ocean transportation accepts the commodity before receipt of an acceptable letter of credit from a bank, the supplier takes such action at its own risk. This action in itself does not affect eligibility for CCC financing.
