
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 986 - PECANS GROWN IN THE STATES OF ALABAMA, ARKANSAS, ARIZONA, CALIFORNIA, FLORIDA, GEORGIA, KANSAS, LOUISIANA, MISSOURI, MISSISSIPPI, NORTH CAROLINA, NEW MEXICO, OKLAHOMA, SOUTH CAROLINA, AND TEXAS
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling of Pecans
###### Administrative Body
####### ยง 986.50 Term of office.
######## Provided

(a) Selected members and alternate members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years:, That at the end of the first four (4) year term and in the nomination and selection of the second Council only, four of the grower member and alternate seats and three of the sheller member and alternate seats shall be seated for terms of two years so that approximately half of the memberships' and alternates' terms expire every two years thereafter. Member and alternate seats assigned two-year terms for the seating of the second Council only shall be as follows:

(1) Grower member Seat 2 in all regions shall be assigned a two-year term;

(2) Grower member Seat 3 in all regions shall, by drawing, identify one member seat to be assigned a two-year term; and,

(3) Sheller Seat 2 in all regions shall be assigned a two-year term.

(b) Council members and alternates may serve up to two consecutive, four-year terms of office. Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, in no event shall any member or alternate serve more than eight consecutive years on the Council as either a member or an alternate. However, if selected, an alternate having served up to two consecutive terms may immediately serve as a member for two consecutive terms without any interruption in service. The same is true for a member who, after serving for up to two consecutive terms, may serve as an alternate if nominated without any interruption in service. A person having served the maximum number of terms as set forth above may not serve again as a member or an alternate for at least twelve consecutive months. For purposes of determining when a member or alternate has served two consecutive terms, the accrual of terms shall begin following any period of at least twelve consecutive months out of office.

(c) Each member and alternate member shall continue to serve until a successor is selected and has qualified.

(d) A term of office shall begin as set forth in the by-laws or as directed by the Secretary each year for all members.

(e) The Council may recommend, subject to approval of the Secretary, revisions to the start day for the term of office, the number of years in a term, and the number of terms a member or an alternate can serve.
