
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 986 - PECANS GROWN IN THE STATES OF ALABAMA, ARKANSAS, ARIZONA, CALIFORNIA, FLORIDA, GEORGIA, KANSAS, LOUISIANA, MISSOURI, MISSISSIPPI, NORTH CAROLINA, NEW MEXICO, OKLAHOMA, SOUTH CAROLINA, AND TEXAS
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling of Pecans
###### Expenses, Assessments, and Marketing Policy
####### ยง 986.64 Accounting.
######## Provided

(2) The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over excess funds into subsequent fiscal periods as reserves:, That funds already in reserves do not equal approximately three fiscal years' expenses. Such reserve funds may be used:

(i) To defray expenses during any fiscal period prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses;

(ii) To cover deficits incurred during any fiscal period when assessment income is less than expenses;

(iii) To defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended or are inoperative; and

(iv) To cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part.

(b) Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate. To the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.

(c) All funds received by the Council pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided for in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the Council and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.

(d) Upon the removal or expiration of the term of office of any member of the Council, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in their possession to the Council, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the Council full title to all of the property, funds, and claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.

(e) The Council may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other Council property during periods of suspension of this subpart, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect and if the Secretary determines such action appropriate, he or she may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for the Council.
