
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.8 Ocean transportation.
##### Special charter party provisions required when any part of ocean freight is financed by CCC.

(e)This paragraph applies when CCC finances any part of the ocean freight for commodities booked on charter terms. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the regulations in this part and the charter party or ocean bills of lading issued pursuant thereto, the provisions of the regulations in this part shall prevail. The charter party shall contain or, for the purpose of financing pursuant to the regulations in this part, be deemed to contain the following provisions:

(1) That if there is any failure on the part of the supplier of ocean transportation to perform the charter party after the vessel has tendered at the loading port, the charterer shall be entitled to incur all expenses which in the judgment of the General Sales Manager are required to enable the vessel to carry out her obligations under the charter party including, but not limited to, expenses for lifting any liens asserted against the vessel.

(2) That, notwithstanding any prior assignments of freight made by the owner or operator, the expenses authorized in paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be deducted from the freight earned under the charter party.

(3) That ocean freight is earned and that 100% thereof is payable by the charterers when the vessel and cargo arrive at the first port of discharge, subject to paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and to the further condition that if a force majeure as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section results in the loss of part of the vessel's cargo, 100% of the ocean freight is payable on the part so lost. This provision does not relieve the carrier of the obligation to carry to other points of discharge if so required by the charter party.

(4) That if a force majeure as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section prevents the vessel's arrival at the first port of discharge, the freight shall be payable by the charterer at the time the General Sales Manager determines that such force majeure was the cause of nonarrival.

(5) That laydays are non-reversible.

(6) That in a dispute involving any rights and obligations of CCC, including rights and obligations as successor or assignee, which cannot be settled by agreement, the dispute shall not be subject to arbitration.
