
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 987 - DOMESTIC DATES PRODUCED OR PACKED IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### California Date Administrative Committee
####### ยง 987.30 Duties.

The Committee shall have, among other things, the following duties:

(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler.

(b) To keep minutes, books, and records which will clearly reflect all of its transactions and such minutes, books, and other records shall be subject to examination by the Secretary at any time.

(c) To investigate the growing, handling, and marketing conditions with respect to dates, to assemble data in connection therewith.

(d) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as may be deemed pertinent to the administration of this subpart or as he may request and to give to the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Committee as is given to the members of the Committee.

(e) To appoint such employees as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries, define the duties and where desirable fix the bonds of such employees.

(f) To cause the books of the Committee to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each crop year and at such other times as the Committee may deem necessary or the Secretary may request. The report of each such audit shall show among other things the receipt and expenditure of funds pursuant hereto. Two copies of such audit shall be submitted to the Secretary.

(g) To investigate compliance and to use means available to the Committee to prevent violations of this part.

(h) To furnish the Committee viewpoints of the consumer, the Committee may utilize a consumer consultant. The consumer consultant shall have no financial interest in the date industry and shall receive no compensation, however, such person shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses attendant to those assignments that the Committee has given prior support and approval.
