
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 987 - DOMESTIC DATES PRODUCED OR PACKED IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### California Date Administrative Committee
####### § 987.31 Procedure.

(a) A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum.

(b) The Committee shall, from among its members, select a chairman and such other officers and adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable.

(c) For any decision of the Committee to be valid, a concurring vote of at least five members is required, except as follows:

(1) In matters relating to restructuring Committee composition pursuant to § 987.21, concurrence by at least eight members is required;

(2) In matters relating to establishment, modification and application of free and restricted percentages pursuant to §§ 987.44 and 987.46, concurrence by at least seven members is required; and

(3) In matters relating to recommendation of any program of paid advertising or major program of market promotion pursuant to § 987.33, concurrence by at least six members is required.

(d) At the discretion of the chairperson, Committee meetings may be assembled or conducted by means of teleconference, video conference, or other means of communication that may be developed. Assembled meetings may also allow for participation by means of teleconference or video conference or other communication methods, at the discretion of the chair. Members participating in meetings via any of these alternative means retain the same voting privileges that they would otherwise have.

(e) The Committee may vote upon any proposition by mail, or by telephone when confirmed in writing within two weeks, upon due notice and full and identical explanation to all members, including alternates acting as members, but any such action shall not be considered valid unless unanimously approved.

(f) If the total number of members of the Committee is changed pursuant to § 987.21, the minimum voting requirements shall be in the same ratio to the revised total number of members, as nearly as practicable, as the minimum voting requirements prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section are to nine.
