
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 987 - DOMESTIC DATES PRODUCED OR PACKED IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Volume Regulation
####### ยง 987.45 Withholding restricted dates.

(a) Whenever free and restricted percentages for any variety of dates have been established for a crop year by the Secretary in accordance with ยง 987.44, each handler shall, at the time of having dates of such variety certified for handling as free dates (including those for further processing that are to be handled as free dates), withhold from handling a quantity of marketable dates of such variety having a weight equal to the restricted percentage for such variety referrable to the dates so far certified. The withholding requirement shall not apply to dates certified for delivery directly to an excess supply removal program of the Secretary. The weight required to be withheld shall be determined by dividing the restricted percentage by the free percentage and applying the resultant withholding factor, rounded to the nearest one-tenth of one percent, to the weight of dates so certified. The withholding factor, computed as aforesaid, shall be established by the Secretary. When pitted dates are certified, the weight to be withheld shall be determined by dividing the weight of the pitted dates certified for handling or further processing by a divisor established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary and applying the withholding factor.

(b) Compliance by any handler with the withholding of restricted dates may be deferred to any date not later than January 31 of any crop year, upon request to the Committee and when accompanied by a written undertaking that on or prior to such date, he will have fully satisfied his withholding obligation. Such undertaking shall be secured by a bond or bonds to be filed with, and acceptable to, the Committee and with a surety or sureties acceptable to the Committee, running in favor of the Committee and the Secretary in an amount conditioned upon full compliance with such undertaking. The amount shall be determined by multiplying the poundage of the deferred restricted obligation by a bonding rate per pound which would provide funds estimated to be sufficient for the Committee to purchase on the open market a volume of dates equivalent to the deferred obligation. Such bonding rate shall be established annually, and modified as necessary, by the Committee. Any sums collected through default by a handler on his bond shall be used by the Committee to purchase dates to meet the violated restricted obligation, reimburse the Committee for expenses relative to the default, and any excess money remaining shall be refunded to the defaulting handler. The dates so purchased by the Committee shall be turned over to the defaulting handler for disposition as restricted dates. In the event the Committee is unable to purchase a poundage of dates equal to the defaulted volume, the sums collected shall, after reimbursement of Committee expenses in connection with the default, be distributed among all handlers other than the defaulting handler in proportion to the volume of certified dates handled as free dates (including those for further processing that were handled as free dates), during the crop year in which the default occurred.

(c) At any time during the crop year free dates may be inspected and certified for handling or for further processing as provided in ยง 987.41. Dates so certified shall, at the time of certification, be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, or tags to be furnished by the Committee and to be affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of the Committee or its designated inspectors. The assessment requirements in ยง 987.72 as well as the withholding obligation prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be met at the time of certification. However, a handler who has had more free dates certified for handling or further processing than he subsequently shipped or otherwise handled may, upon request to the Committee and with its approval, have any of such excess quantity of the certified dates suspended from certification of record or, if damaged or the outlet changed, removed from certification, and his withholding and assessment obligations adjusted accordingly. A handler, who has had dates certified for handling or further processing and has not had them so suspended from certification of record or removed from certification, may carry such certified free dates over into the new crop year and need not pay the assessment nor meet the requirements of any withholding percentages established for such year.
