
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.8 Ocean transportation.
##### General financing provisions.

(k)When any part of ocean freight will be financed either separately or as part of the commodity contract price, the following shall apply:

(1) Ocean freight contracts must show the ocean freight rate from one loading port to one discharge port, and may provide for an increase in rate for an additional port of loading or discharge, or other option. CCC, however, will finance initially the lowest such rate or OFD, as appropriate. Increased amounts due because of the exercise of such option will be financed only after receipt of an ocean bill of lading or other evidence showing that the option was exercised.

(2) In the case of transshipment to a foreign flag vessel, CCC will finance the ocean freight or OFD, as appropriate, only to the point of transshipment, at a rate determined by the GSM, and CCC will not finance any part of the ocean freight beyond the point of transshipment unless specifically approved by the GSM. If the commodity was transported from a U.S. port and was transshipped at another U.S. port, CCC will not finance, without prior approval of the GSM, any part of the ocean freight incurred before transshipment.

(3) The ocean freight rate eligible for CCC financing and the rate used for the U.S.-flag vessel in calculating ocean freight differential shall not exceed the following rates for the category of the vessel concerned:

(i) For commodities covered by published tariff rates-the published conference contract rate;

(ii) For other commodities-the market rate prevailing at the time of request for approval as determined by the Director, but in any event not in excess of rates charged other shippers (irrespective of booking dates) for like commodities on the voyage concerned.

(4) Payment will be made for ocean freight or OFD, as appropriate, from loading points to discharge points at rates approved by the Director on Form CCC-106 in conformity with paragraph (k)(3) of this section.

(5) Freight for a vessel designated on Form CCC-106 as a U.S. flag vessel shall not be eligible for financing unless such vessel complies with the provisions of Pub. L. 87-266.

(6) Ocean freight contracts must specify that the participant shall be liable for detention of the vessel for loading delays attributable solely to the decision of the supplier of ocean transportation not to commence loading because of the failure of the participant to establish an ocean freight letter of credit in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section. However, ocean freight contracts may not contain a specified detention rate. The ocean transportation supplier shall be entitled to reimbursement for detention costs for all time so lost, for each calendar day or any part of the calendar day, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The period of such delay shall not commence earlier than upon presentation of the vessel at the designated loading port within the laydays specified in the ocean freight contract, and upon notification of the vessel's readiness to load in accordance with the terms of the applicable ocean freight contract. The period of such delay shall end at the time that operable irrevocable letters of credit have been established for the applicable ocean freight or the time the vessel begins loading, whichever is earlier. Time calculated as detention shall not count as laytime. Reimbursement for such detention shall be payable no later than upon the vessel's arrival at the first port of discharge.
