
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 987 - DOMESTIC DATES PRODUCED OR PACKED IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 987.72 Assessments.
######## Requirement for payment.

(a)Each handler shall pay to the Committee upon demand, on all dates he has certified as meeting the requirements for marketable dates and utility dates utilized in product outlets including the eligible portion of any field-run dates certified and set aside or disposed of pursuant to ยง 987.45(f), his pro rata share of all expenses which the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Committee during each crop year. Should the condition arise wherein the utility portion of dates handled in certain other outlets should not be, in the opinion of the Committee, subject to the payment of assessments on that portion, the Committee may recommend and the Secretary approve by rulemaking, such exclusion. Each handler's pro rata share shall be the rate of assessment per hundredweight fixed by the Secretary. At any time during or after a crop year the Secretary may increase such assessment rate to secure sufficient funds to cover unanticipated expenses or a deficit in assessable poundage. Any such increase shall apply to all assessable poundage of the crop year. The Committee may accept payments of assessments in advance and may borrow money in any amount not to exceed 10 percent of the estimated expenses set forth in its budget for the then crop year. The assessment weight of pitted dates shall be determined by dividing the weight of such dates by a divisor established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary.
