
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 17 - SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES MADE AVAILABLE UNDER TITLE I OF THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### ยง 17.9 CCC payment to suppliers.
##### General.

(a)(1) The supplier shall request payment from CCC for the amount of the commodity price or the ocean freight or ocean freight differential to be financed by CCC.

(2) The supplier shall support such a request for payment by presenting to CCC the documents required by this section, the purchase authorization, and the IFB, unless such documents were previously submitted to CCC. Such documents, however, need not be submitted when and to the extent that the Controller determines that the intended purpose of a document is served by documents otherwise available to or under the control of CCC or by alternate documents specified in such determination.

(3) CCC will examine each document to ascertain that it is in accordance with this part, the purchase authorization, and the IFB. CCC will audit all the required documents to ensure accuracy, completeness, and consistency. When CCC has determined that all required documents have been submitted and that the documents are acceptable for payment, CCC will pay the supplier for the commodity price or the ocean freight or ocean freight differential to be financed by CCC which is supported by the documents.

(4) CCC is required to issue all payments by electronic transfer. Each supplier submitting documents to CCC for payment must provide the name of the company, the bank ABA number to which payment is to be made, the account number for the company at the bank, the company's Taxpayer Identification Number, and the type of account being used.
