
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Grade, Quality, and Condition Standards
####### ยง 989.58 Natural condition raisins.
######## Off-grade raisins.

(e)(1) Any natural condition raisins tendered to a handler which fail to meet the applicable minimum grade, quality, and condition standards may:

(i) Be received or acquired by the handler for disposition, without further inspection, in eligible non-normal outlets;

(ii) Be returned unstemmed to the person tendering the raisins; or

(iii) Be received by the handler for reconditioning. Off-grade raisins received by a handler under any one of the three described categories may be changed to any other of the categories under such rules and procedures as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall establish. No handler shall ship or otherwise dispose of off-grade raisins which he does not return to the tenderer, transfer to another handler as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, or recondition so that they at least meet the minimum standards prescribed in or pursuant to this amended subpart, except into eligible non-normal outlets.

(2) Off-grade raisins may be transferred from the plant of the handler where received to another plant of his or to that of another handler within the State of California under such rules and procedures as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall establish to safeguard the objectives of this part.

(3) Each handler shall, while holding any off-grade raisins, store them separate and apart from other raisins and the off-grade raisins shall be stored in accordance with disposition and reconditioning categories. The Committee with the approval of the Secretary may prescribe rules and procedures for the storage of the raisins.

(4) If the handler is to acquire the raisins after they are reconditioned, his obligation with respect to such raisins shall be based on the weight of the raisins (if stemmed, adjusted to natural condition weight) after they have been reconditioned.

(5) The Committee shall establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such additional rules and procedures as may be necessary to insure adequate control of off-grade raisins, including, but not limited to, the reconditioning of off-grade raisins, the disposition and use of unsuccessfully reconditioned raisins, and the disposition and use of residual matter from reconditioning operations.
