
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Definitions
####### ยง 989.110 Varietal types.

Pursuant to ยง 989.10, specific definitions for each varietal type of raisins contained in that section are as follows:

(a) Natural (sun-dried) Seedless includes all sun-dried seedless raisins possessing similar identifiable characteristics as raisins produced from Thompson Seedless grapes or similar grape varieties, whether dried on trays or on the vine, with or without the application of a drying agent that is a food-grade additive such as, soda, oil, Ethyl Oleate, or Methyl Oleate prior to, during, or after the drying process.

(b) Dipped Seedless includes all raisins produced by artificial dehydration of seedless grapes that possess the characteristics similar to Thompson Seedless grapes which, in order to expedite drying, have been dipped in or sprayed with water only after such grapes have been removed from the vine.

(c) Golden Seedless includes all seedless raisins whose color generally varies from golden yellow to dark amber.

(d) Muscats (including other raisins with seeds) include all raisins which usually contain seeds and possess characteristics similar to Muscat raisins.

(e) Sultana includes all raisins which usually contain an undeveloped (vestigial) seed and possess characteristics similar to Sultana raisins.

(f) Zante Currant includes all raisins that possess characteristics similar to those produced from Black Corinth or White Corinth grapes.

(g) Monukka includes all raisins produced from Monukka grapes.

(h) Other Seedless includes all raisins produced from Ruby Seedless, Kings Ruby Seedless, Flame Seedless and other seedless grapes not included in any of the varietal categories for Seedless raisins defined in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or (h) above.

(i) Other Seedless-Sulfured includes all raisins produced from Ruby Seedless, Kings Ruby Seedless, Flame Seedless and other seedless grapes not included in any of the varietal categories for Seedless raisins defined in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (h), or (i) of this section which have been artificially dehydrated and sulfured.
