
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Provided,,And provided further,,Provided,

(3) For each lot of natural condition raisins received by a handler for acquisition, reconditioning, storage, inspection, or for disposition in eligible non-normal outlets, the handler shall, immediately upon physical receipt and tentative acceptance thereof, issue a prenumbered (numbered serially in advance) door receipt or weight certificate showing the name and address of the tenderer, the weight of the lot, the number and type of containers in the lot, and any other information necessary to identify the lot. For the purposes of identifying incoming lots of raisins, other than dehydrated raisins covered by paragraph (e) of this section, a handler, if it is impracticable for him to issue immediately a door receipt or weight certificate, may issue for temporary use only a prenumbered "Request for USDA Inspection" on a form furnished by the Committee. Any such raisins so received by a handler shall, prior to their acceptance, be inspected at an inspection point during the unloading process, and if certified as standard raisins shall be, unless returned to the tenderer, either promptly acquired by the handler or received for storage on memorandum receipt:That in the absence of an inspector to perform inspection during unloading, the handler shall not permit unloading to occur unless such absence is during normal business hours and the handler has a written statement from the inspection service to the effect that inspection cannot be furnished within a reasonable time:That the raisins so unloaded shall be inspected promptly upon an inspector being available. It shall be the handler's responsibility in any case to arrange for the inspection, other than with respect to dehydrated raisins covered by paragraph (e) of this section, and furnish weight certificates promptly. Any raisins received by a handler as off-grade for disposition in eligible non-normal outlets or for reconditioning may be accepted uninspected:That an application for receiving such uninspected raisins shall be submitted by the handler, on a form furnished by the Committee, to the Inspection Service prior to, or upon physical receipt of, such off-grade raisins. Such form shall provide for at least the name and address of the tenderer (equity holder), date, number, and type of containers, net weight of the raisins, and the particular defect(s) the handler indicates would cause the raisins to be off-grade. Handlers shall complete and sign the form. The application for such uninspected raisins shall not be acceptable unless signed by the tenderer. The uninspected raisins shall be subject to surveillance by the Inspection Service. Each lot of raisins accepted by a handler for reconditioning shall be reconditioned separately from any other lot.

(4) If any lot of natural condition raisins tendered to a handler is separated into two or more lots because a portion of the original lot failed to meet minimum grade and condition standards, or because the entire lot failed due to more than one defect, the handler shall issue a prenumbered weight certificate for each such new lot not returned to the tenderer, showing the name and address of the tenderer, the weight of the lot, and the number and type of containers in the lot. The weight of any meeting lot shall be determined by weighing it, or by weighing the failing portion of the incoming lot and deducting the weight thereof from the weight of the incoming lot. The weight of each failing lot shall be determined by weighing it, or by deriving such weight by applying the original average container weight to the number of containers.
