
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### § 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Change in off-grade categories.

(2)After raisins have been classified as to the categories in § 989.58(e)(1), any lot of natural condition off-grade raisins held by a handler under paragraph (i) or (iii) of § 989.58(e)(1), may be changed to the other category, or to paragraph (ii). Prior to making such change, the handler shall notify the inspection service at least one business day in advance of the time such handler plans to begin such change. Such notification shall be provided verbally or by other means of communication, including e-mail. Any off-grade lot under paragraph (ii) of § 989.58(e)(1) which has not been removed from the handler premises and is identifiable with the original inspection, may be tendered to the handler for the purposes of paragraph (i) or (iii) of § 989.58(e)(1) and, if accepted, the handler shall so report to the Committee. It shall be the responsibility of the handler to establish and maintain the identity of the raisins in the changed categories in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Where the tenderer has a financial interest in the raisins the handler shall, before making any change in category, submit to the Committee evidence of the tenderer's permission to make any such change, except for changes from paragraph (i) or paragraph (iii) to paragraph (ii) of § 989.58(e)(1).
