
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Incoming inspection.

(a)(1)(i) The Committee shall, upon request of a handler who complies with the requirements of this part with respect to inspection points, designate as his inspection point any place (including his plant or receiving station) where the handler receives raisins.

(ii) Each handler shall, at his expense, provide at each of his inspection points reasonably safe and adequate facilities for receiving raisins, drawing samples, and efficient inspection of natural condition raisins. At the time of inspection of any lot, the handler shall, at his expense, provide the inspector with any assistance necessary in the inspection of the raisins, including the movement of individual containers. Each handler, other than a processor, shall maintain with the Committee a current written description, defining the boundaries and other pertinent details, of each of his inspection points. In the event the Committee determines that any inspection point, or any modification thereof, does not comply with the definition or the requirements of this part, it shall notify the handler of the changes necessary for compliance. The handler shall make such changes promptly. In the event any of his inspection points is the same as that of another handler or person receiving raisins or grapes in any form, the handler shall maintain his raisins separate and apart from any other raisins.

(iii) The weight of each lot of raisins tendered for receiving, storage, reconditioning, acquisition, or disposition shall be substantiated by an official "State Certificate of Weights and Measures" issued by a public weighmaster, whether located at the inspection point or otherwise, or such other document approved by the Committee which accurately reflects the weight of each lot tendered. The net weight of such raisins for the purposes of this part, shall be determined by deducting the sand tare and box tare from the gross weight of the raisins. The sand tare shall be the weight of the sand and other foreign material removed from the raisins by passing the raisins over a screen (of a type commonly used by the industry for such purpose) having 36 square openings to the square inch, with each opening being one-eighth of an inch square.
