
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Off-grade raisins,Holding and identification.,Provided,

(c)-(1)The inspection certificates covering any lot of off-grade raisins shall state whether or not such off-grade raisins are storable. Any raisins which do not meet the applicable grade and condition standards shall be classified in one of the three categories specified in ยง 989.58(e)(1) within 5 business days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after inspection or 3 such business days after issuance of the inspection certificate, whichever is later:That these time limits may be extended by the Committee under such conditions as it may deem necessary in the circumstances. The handler shall report to the Committee the information as required and specified in ยง 989.173(b)(5). Any such lot of off-grade raisins shall be identified immediately following inspection by fixing to a container on each pallet a prenumbered RAC control card (to be furnished by the Committee), and kept separate and apart from any other raisins in the handler's possession. In the event the handler does not normally use pallets in his operation the RAC control card shall be affixed to one or more of the containers in each lot. The RAC control cards shall remain fixed to the containers until the raisins are (i) disposed of by the handler in eligible non-normal outlets, (ii) returned unstemmed to the tenderer, or (iii) submitted for reconditioning. The cards shall be removed only by an inspector of the inspection service or authorized Committee personnel, except control cards designating lots held only for fumigation may be removed by the handler after the completion of fumigation to the satisfaction of the inspection service. Each lot of off-grade raisins not returned to the tenderer shall be stored by the handler separate and apart by varietal types from all other raisins and by disposition and conditioning categories which preserve the lot identity and, if for reconditioning, the defect identity. Off-grade raisins shall be stored in such a manner as to be accessible to the Committee.
