
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Inter-plant and inter-packer transfer of off-grade raisins.

(3)Any packer may, pursuant to ยง 989.58(e)(2) and under the surveillance of the inspection service, transfer to or from another packer's plant in California, any off-grade raisins for reconditioning. Such transfer may be for the packer's convenience or that of a financially interested person. Where a tenderer or other person has a financial interest in the raisins, the handler shall first obtain the tenderer's or other interested person's written agreement to the transfer. The handler shall notify the inspection service in advance of the time such handler plans to transfer each lot. Such notification shall be provided verbally or by other means of communication, including e-mail. The notification shall be at least 1 business day in advance of the transfer unless a shorter period is acceptable to the inspection service. In the same manner except for the tenderer's or other person's written agreement, any packer may transfer off-grade raisins from one of his plants or inspection points to another of his plants in California. In both cases such raisins may be removed directly to the premises of the receiving packer or another plant of the packer under the surveillance of the inspection service. Upon completion of the transfer all applicable provisions of this part shall apply with respect to such raisins and the packer receiving them.
