
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Provided,

(8) With respect to any lot of natural condition raisins being received and inspected at a handler's inspection point pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the handler shall notify the inspection service if he elects to have the raisins inspected for infestation. If the handler elects not to have the raisins inspected for infestation, he shall: (i) Fumigate promptly all raisins he receives; (ii) notify the inspection service in advance of the time he plans to fumigate such raisins; (iii) permit the inspection service to monitor the fumigation; and (iv) permit the inspection service to make periodic incubation checks of his packed raisins. The inspection service shall certify the raisins received as standard raisins if they meet all other grade and condition standards. If the handler elects to have the raisins inspected for infestation, the inspector shall afford such handler the opportunity to fumigate such raisins during the inspection and certification process. Such raisins shall remain under the supervision of the inspector during the fumigation. The inspection certificate shall not be issued until the fumigation is completed:That the inspection certificate shall be issued, whether or not the fumigation is completed, not later than five business days after the date the inspection and certification process is suspended by the inspector to permit fumigation.

(9) With respect to any lot (as defined in ยง 989.104(a)(1)) of natural condition raisins being received and inspected at a handler's inspection point pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section and notwithstanding separation of the meeting portion of the original lot from the failing portions thereof for the purposes on ยง 989.104 and paragraph (a)(4) of this section, any tenderer may, when permitted by the handler and when notified by the inspector of defects during the inspection and certification process, and in accordance with the provisions of this subparagraph, perform any one or more of the following on an individual box basis: (i) Mix raisins within boxes containing raisins that are wet, or of high moisture content in some areas of the box; (ii) dump raisins from wet boxes into dry boxes; (iii) remove wet raisins; or (iv) remove foreign material such as sandburs, puncture vine seed, Eucalyptus pods or leaves, rocks, and sticks. This authorization to the tenderer shall not extend to raisins in containers larger than sweat boxes; and the number of boxes in the original lot on which the aforesaid actions may be performed during such process shall not exceed ten, or five percent of the total number of containers in the lot, whichever is less. Where the percentage computation results in a fraction of a box and is less than ten boxes, it shall be rounded upward to the next number. The entire lot of raisins shall remain under surveillance of the inspector during such process. The actions of the tenderer shall be done without delay, take place at the unloading dock in the inspection point, or in the immediate area thereof, and be under observation of the inspector.
