
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Off-grade raisins which are not reconditioned successfully.,Provided,

(6)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, no handler shall return to the tenderer any off-grade raisins received for reconditioning which, after his reconditioning of them is complete, have been stemmed and which then fail to meet the applicable minimum grade standards. Any raisins which fail to meet the applicable minimum grade and condition standards or minimum grade standards after reconditioning and all residual material from reconditioning, held by the handler, shall be identified promptly by affixing to one or more containers in each lot, or to a container in each pallet if pallets are used, a prenumbered RAC control card as prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section:That such failing raisins and residual material which are placed directly into trucks or trailers for immediate disposition need not be identified by affixing thereto a RAC control card. The handler shall hold the failing raisins and the residual material separate and apart from all other raisins. The control cards shall be removed from the containers only by an inspector of the inspection service or authorized Committee personnel. The handler shall physically dispose of the residual material, and any failing raisins which he does not return unstemmed to the tenderer, only in eligible non-normal outlets as provided in ยง 989.159(g)(2).

(ii) Any packer may arrange for or permit the tenderer to remove the stemmed raisins (described in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section), but not the residual, directly to the premises, within California, of another packer for further reconditioning of the raisins at the latter's premises. Such removal and transfer shall be made under the surveillance of the inspection service. The packer shall notify the inspection service as required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Such raisins may be received by the other packer without inspection. On and after such receipt of the raisins for further reconditioning, all applicable provisions of this part shall apply with respect to such raisins and the packer so receiving them.
