
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.158 Natural condition raisins.
######## Terms and conditions.

(2)The provisions of such application and agreement shall include at least the following terms and conditions:

(i) That the association shall, prior to delivery of any raisins to handlers, arrange for inspection services at the association's receiving station(s), and cause to be submitted to the Committee a statement by the inspection service of such arrangement and of the association's having adequate laboratory and other facilities for such services available at the association's receiving station(s).

(ii) That the association shall maintain such facilities satisfactory to the inspection service.

(iii) That the association shall request inspection of each lot of raisins immediately upon physical arrival thereof at the association's receiving station(s), and shall provide the inspector with any assistance necessary in the inspection of such raisins, including the movement of individual containers.

(iv) That the association shall fumigate all raisins received at the association's receiving station(s) as necessary to assure that the raisins are free from active infestation and maintain them as such while on such premises, and that fumigation shall be performed to the satisfaction of the inspection service.

(v) That the association shall, with respect to all raisins entering its premises which are not returned to the producer as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(vi) of this section, promptly affix to one or more containers in each lot, or to a container in each pallet if pallets are used, a Committee control card showing thereon such information as the Committee requires to maintain the producer identity of each lot and prevent commingling with any other lot. The association shall not move all or any portion of a lot of raisins on the premises of the association's receiving station(s) or load any such raisins for shipment, except in the presence of an inspector of the inspection service.

(vi) That the association shall store any standard raisins and any off-grade raisins which are held by it after receipt and inspection on the premises of its receiving station(s) under conditions which protect the raisins from rain, infestation and contamination, and which can be expected to maintain their respective conditions except for normal and natural deterioration and shrinkage. Any raisins which after receipt and inspection are not accepted and held by the association shall be returned to the producer within 5 business days after the issuance of the inspection certificate.

(vii) That the association shall furnish the inspection service with a completed Committee form requesting issuance, at the time of loading any lot of inspected raisins for delivery to any handler's inspection point, of a memorandum report of inspection covering such lot.

(viii) That the association shall deliver to the handler at the time of receipt of any such lot of eligible raisins at the handler's inspection point the original and one copy of the inspection service's related memorandum report of inspection; and such original and copy shall accompany the shipment of such lot from the premises of the association's receiving station(s) to the handler's inspection point.

(ix) That the association shall maintain complete records of the receipt, holding and disposition of each lot of raisins and retain such records for at least 2 years after the crop year in which such transactions occurred.

(x) That the association shall file promptly with the Committee certified reports showing such information as the Committee may request relative to the association's receipts, holdings, and dispositions of raisins.

(xi) That the association shall permit the Committee, the inspection service, and the Secretary of Agriculture, through their duly authorized representatives, to have access to the premises of the association's receiving station(s) to inspect such premises and any raisins thereon and any and all records with respect to the association's receipts, holdings and dispositions of raisins.

(xii) That upon approval of the application and agreement the Committee will notify handlers of such approval and that eligible lots of inspected raisins will not require incoming inspection at handler inspection points; will notify the interested handlers of any suspension or revocation, for good cause, of the eligibility of a particular lot of raisins; and will notify handlers of any suspension or termination of the application and agreement.

(xiii) That the Committee will request the inspection service to establish a fee to the association for the services to be rendered at the same rate as is charged handlers.

(xiv) That the application and agreement may be suspended or terminated as provided therein.
