
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 989 - RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Quality Control
####### ยง 989.159 Regulation of the handling of raisins subsequent to their acquisition.
######## Outgoing inspection.

(c)(1) Outgoing inspection and certification of raisins as required by ยง 989.59(d) shall be made as set forth in this paragraph.

(2) Such inspection of natural condition raisins (which is subject to exceptions and exemptions provided in this part) shall be made of each individual lot and in each case not more than five days before the date of shipment or other final disposition of the lot. The certificate that the raisins meet the applicable minimum grade and condition standards for natural condition raisins, which the handler is required to obtain and submit to the Committee pursuant to ยง 989.59(d), shall be on Form FV 146 labeled "Certificate of Quality and Condition (Processed Foods)." If shipment involves exportation to a foreign country, the handler shall surrender to the United States Customs Service at the port of exit two copies of such inspection certificate. Such an inspection and certification (on Form FV 146) may, if requested by the handler, be made at the time of his receipt or acquisition of the raisins. In such an event, no additional inspection shall be required if the lot remains intact and identifiable, and shipment or other final disposition takes place within five days after the date of the inspection.

(3) Such inspection of packed raisins shall be made prior to shipment or other final disposition, and unless made during the final processing or packing operations so as to facilitate proper sampling, the inspector shall perform the inspection on the basis of representative samples drawn from shipping containers of the packed raisins.

(4) Except as otherwise provided in this part, where there is presented for inspection a lot of packed raisins consisting of raisins of different varietal types or sub-types commingled within their containers, each such type and sub-type shall be inspected separately, except that inspection for moisture shall be performed on the lot as a whole. The inspection certificate shall show the respective percentages which the raisins of the various types and sub-types are of the lot and whether each meets the applicable minimum grade standards. In the event the raisins of any such varietal type or sub-type contained in the lot fail to meet the applicable requirements, other than for moisture, none of the lot shall be certified as meeting minimum grade standards unless it is found to be practicable to separate the raisins into two new lots, one which meets and the other which fails to meet all of the applicable minimum standards, respectively. Any lot of mixed types or sub-types of packed raisins for which minimum grade standards are prescribed for each type or sub-type pursuant to ยง 989.59 (a) and (b) but which in their commingled form cannot be inspected against the standards for the respective varietal types or sub-types and hence are excluded from the category of "Mixed types" as defined in the then effective United States Standards for Grades of Processed Raisins, or any raisins which as a mixed lot contain moisture in excess of 18 percent, shall not be certified as meeting the minimum grade standard for packed raisins.
