
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - State and Tribal Hemp Production Plans
###### ยง 990.3 State and Tribal plans; Plan requirements.
####### General requirements.

(a)A State or Tribal plan submitted to the Secretary for approval must include the practice and procedures described in this paragraph (a).

(1) A State or Tribal plan must include a practice to collect, maintain, and report to the Secretary relevant, real-time information for each producer licensed or authorized to produce hemp under the State or Tribal plan regarding:

(i) Contact information as described in ยง 990.70(a)(1);

(ii) A legal description of the land on which the producer will produce hemp in the State or territory of the Indian Tribe including, to the extent practicable, its geospatial location; and

(iii) The status and number of the producer's license or authorization in a format prescribed by USDA.

(2) A State or Tribal plan must include a procedure for accurate and effective sampling of hemp that includes the requirements in this paragraph (a)(2).

(i) Samples from cannabis plants must be collected within 30 days prior to the anticipated harvest, for total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration level testing. Samples must be collected by a sampling agent. Producers may not collect samples from their own growing facilities.

(ii) Samples shall be obtained from the flowering tops of plants when flowering tops are present, and shall be approximately five to eight inches in length from the "main stem" (that includes the leaves and flowers), "terminal bud" (that occurs at the end of a stem), or "central cola" (cut stem that could develop into a bud) of the flowering top of the plant.

(iii) The method used for sampling must be sufficient at a confidence level of 95 percent that no more than one percent of the plants in each lot would exceed the acceptable hemp THC level and ensure that a representative sample is collected that represents a homogeneous composition of the lot. Alternatively, States and Tribes may adopt a performance-based method that meets the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The alternative method must be part of the State or Tribe's hemp plan and is subject to USDA approval.
