
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - State and Tribal Hemp Production Plans
###### ยง 990.4 USDA approval of State and Tribal plans.
####### Amended plans.

(b)A State or Tribal government, as applicable, must submit to the Secretary an amended plan if:

(1) The Secretary disapproves a State or Tribal plan and the State or Indian Tribe wishes to have primary regulatory authority over hemp production within its State or territory of the Indian Tribe; or

(2) The State or Indian Tribe makes substantive revisions to its plan or its laws which alter the way the plan meets the requirements of this part. If this occurs, the State or Tribal government must re-submit the revised plan for USDA approval. Such re-submissions should be provided to USDA within 60 days from the date that the State or Tribal laws and regulations are effective. Producers shall continue to comply with the requirements of the existing plan while such modifications are under consideration by USDA. If State or Tribal government laws or regulations in effect under the USDA-approved plan change but the State or Tribal government does not submit a revised plan within 60 days from the effective date of the new law or regulation, the existing plan is revoked.

(3) USDA approval of State or Tribal government plan shall remain in effect unless an amended plan must be submitted to USDA because of a substantive revision to a State's or Tribe's plan, a relevant change in State or Tribal laws or regulations, or approval of the plan is revoked by USDA.

(4) Upon USDA approval of a Tribal plan, an Indian Tribe may exercise jurisdiction and therefore primary regulatory authority over all production of hemp in its Territory regardless of the extent of its inherent regulatory authority.
