
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - State and Tribal Hemp Production Plans
###### ยง 990.6 Violations of State and Tribal plans.
####### Corrective action for negligent violations.

(c)Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall provide for the correction of negligent violations. Each corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, the following terms:

(1) A reasonable date by which the producer shall correct the negligent violation.

(2) A requirement that the producer periodically report to the State department of agriculture or Tribal government, as applicable, on its compliance with the State or Tribal plan and corrective action plan for a period of not less than the next 2 years from the date of the negligent violation.

(3) A producer that negligently violates a State or Tribal plan approved under this part shall not as a result of that violation be subject to any criminal enforcement action by the Federal, State, Tribal, or local government.

(4) A producer that negligently violates a State or Tribal plan three times during a 5-year period shall be ineligible to produce hemp for a period of 5 years beginning on the date of the third violation.

(5) The State or Indian Tribe shall conduct an inspection to determine if the corrective action plan has been implemented as submitted.
