
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - State and Tribal Hemp Production Plans
###### ยง 990.6 Violations of State and Tribal plans.
####### Felonies.

(e)Each USDA-approved State or Tribal plan shall contain provisions relating to felonies. Such provisions shall state that:

(1) A person with a State or Federal felony conviction relating to a controlled substance may not participate in the plan and may not produce hemp under the State or Tribal plan for 10 years from the date of the conviction. An exception applies to a person who was lawfully growing hemp under section 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940) before December 20, 2018, and whose conviction also occurred before that date.

(2) The State or Tribal plan shall define who is participating in the plan or program and is subject to the felony conviction restriction for purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section. To determine whether a person is subject to the felony conviction restriction, the State or Tribe much obtain a criminal history report for that person. The State or Indian Tribe may require additional reports or checks as it deems necessary.

(3) For each license or authorization that the State or Indian Tribe issues, its plan must identify at least one individual as participating in the plan and for whom it will obtain a criminal history report to determine eligibility under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
