
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - USDA Hemp Production Plan
###### ยง 990.22 USDA hemp producer license approval.

(a) A license shall not be issued unless:

(1) The application submitted for USDA review and approval is complete and accurate.

(2) The criminal history report(s) submitted with the license application confirms that all key participants to be covered by the license have not been convicted of a felony, under State or Federal law, relating to a controlled substance within the past ten (10) years unless the exception in ยง 990.20(b) applies.

(3) The applicant, if the applicant was previously or is currently licensed, submitted all reports required as a participant in the hemp production program by this part.

(4) The application contains no materially false statements or misrepresentations and the applicant has not previously submitted an application with any materially false statements or misrepresentations.

(5) The applicant's license is not currently suspended, if the applicant is currently licensed.

(6) The applicant is not applying for a license as a stand-in for someone whose license has been suspended, revoked, or is otherwise ineligible to participate.

(7) The State or territory of the Indian Tribe where the person produces or intends to produce hemp does not have a USDA-approved plan or has not submitted a plan to USDA for approval and is awaiting USDA's decision.

(8) The State or territory of the Indian Tribe where the person produces or intends to produce hemp does not prohibit the production of hemp.

(b) USDA shall provide written notification to applicants whether the application has been approved or denied. USDA shall provide written notification to applicants in a State or territory of an Indian Tribe that has submitted a plan to USDA and is awaiting USDA approval that their application is being returned.

(1) If an application is approved, a license will be issued.

(2) Licenses will be valid until December 31 of the year three after the year in which the license was issued.

(3) Licenses may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of, alienated or encumbered.

(4) If a license application is denied, the notification from USDA will explain the reason for denial. Applicants may appeal the denial in accordance with subpart D of this part.

(c) If the applicant is producing in more than one State or territory of an Indian Tribe, the applicant may have more than one license to grow hemp. If the applicant has operations in a location covered under a State or Tribal plan, that operation must be licensed under the State or Tribal plan, not the USDA plan.
