
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - USDA Hemp Production Plan
###### ยง 990.25 Standards of performance for detecting total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) concentration levels.

Analytical testing for purposes of determining total THC in cannabis plants shall meet the standards in this section.

(a) Laboratory quality assurance must ensure the validity and reliability of test results.

(b) Analytical method selection, validation, and verification must ensure that the testing method used is appropriate (fit for purpose), and that the laboratory can successfully perform the testing.

(c) The demonstration of testing validity must ensure consistent, accurate analytical performance.

(d) Method performance specifications must ensure analytical tests are sufficiently sensitive for the purposes of the detectability requirements of this part.

(e) Laboratory must have an effective disposal procedure for non-compliant samples that do not meet the requirements of this part.

(f) Measurement of uncertainty (MU) must be estimated and reported with test results. Laboratories shall use appropriate, validated methods and procedures for all testing activities and evaluate measurement of uncertainty.

(g) At a minimum, analytical testing of samples for total THC must use post-decarboxylation or other similarly reliable methods approved by the Secretary. The testing methodology must consider the potential conversion of THCA in hemp into THC and the test result must reflect the total available THC derived from the sum of the THC and THCA content. Testing methodologies meeting the requirements of this paragraph (g) include, but are not limited to, gas or liquid chromatography with detection.

(1) The total THC shall be determined and reported on a dry weight basis. Additionally, measurement of uncertainty (MU) must be estimated and reported with test results. Laboratories shall use appropriate, validated methods and procedures for all testing activities and evaluate measurement of uncertainty.

(2) Any sample test result exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level shall be conclusive evidence that the lot represented by the sample is not in compliance with this part.

(3) After December 31, 2022, USDA licensees may only use laboratories registered with the DEA to conduct testing under this section.
