
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - USDA Hemp Production Plan
###### ยง 990.30 USDA producers; License suspension.

(a) USDA may issue a notice of suspension to a producer if USDA or its representative receives some credible evidence establishing that a producer has:

(1) Engaged in conduct violating a provision of this part; or

(2) Failed to comply with a written order from the USDA-AMS Administrator related to negligence as defined in this part.

(b) Any producer whose license has been suspended shall not handle or remove hemp or cannabis from the location where hemp or cannabis was located at the time when USDA issued its notice of suspension, without prior written authorization from USDA.

(c) Any person whose license has been suspended shall not produce hemp during the period of suspension.

(d) A producer whose license has been suspended may appeal that decision in accordance with subpart D of this part.

(e) A producer whose license has been suspended and not restored on appeal may have their license restored after a waiting period of one year from the date of the suspension. If the license was issued more than three years prior to the date of restoration, the producer shall submit a new application and criminal history report to USDA.

(f) A producer whose license has been suspended may be required to provide, and operate under, a corrective action plan to fully restore their license.
