
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - USDA Hemp Production Plan
###### ยง 990.32 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) USDA licensees shall maintain records of all hemp plants acquired, produced, handled, disposed of, or remediated as will substantiate the required reports.

(b) All records and reports shall be maintained for at least three years.

(c) All records shall be made available for inspection by USDA inspectors, auditors, or their representatives during reasonable business hours. The following records must be made available:

(1) Records regarding acquisition of hemp plants;

(2) Records regarding production and handling of hemp plants;

(3) Records regarding storage of hemp plants; and

(4) Records regarding disposal and remediation of all cannabis plants that do not meet the definition of hemp.

(d) USDA inspectors, auditors, or their representatives shall have access to any premises where hemp plants may be held during reasonable business hours.

(e) All reports and records required to be submitted to USDA as part of participation in the program in this part which include confidential data or business information, including but not limited to information constituting a trade secret or disclosing a trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular licensee or their customers, shall be received by, and at all times kept in the custody and control of, one or more employees of USDA or their representatives. Confidential data or business information may be shared with applicable Federal, State, Tribal, or local law enforcement or their designee in compliance with the Act.
