
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Appeals
###### ยง 990.42 Appeals under a State or Tribal hemp production plan.
####### Appealing the suspension or termination of a State or Tribal hemp production plan.

(b)A State or Tribe may appeal the revocation by USDA of an approved State or Tribal hemp production plan.

(1) If the AMS Administrator grants a State or Indian Tribe's appeal of a State or Tribal hemp production plan suspension or revocation, the associated hemp production plan will remain in place and effective.

(2) If the AMS Administrator denies an appeal, the State or Tribal hemp production plan will be suspended or revoked as applicable. Producers located in that State or territory of the Indian Tribe may continue to produce hemp under their State or Tribal license until the end the calendar year in which the State or Tribal plan's disapproval was effective or when the State or Tribal license expires, whichever is earlier. Producers may apply for a USDA license under subpart C of this part unless hemp production is otherwise prohibited by the State or Indian Tribe. The State or Indian Tribe may request a formal adjudicatory proceeding be initiated to review the decision. Such proceeding shall be conducted pursuant to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rules of Practice Governing Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings, 7 CFR part 1, subpart H.
