
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 990.70 State and Tribal hemp reporting requirements.
####### State and Tribal hemp producer report.

(a)Each State and Indian Tribe with a plan approved under this part shall submit to USDA, by the first of each month, a report providing the contact information and the status of the license or other authorization issued for each producer covered under the applicable State and Tribal plans. If the first of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, the report is due by the first business day following the due date. The report shall be submitted using a digital format compatible with USDA's information sharing systems, whenever possible. The report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (a).

(1)(i) For each new producer who is an individual and is licensed or authorized under the State or Tribal plan, the report shall include the full name of the individual, license or authorization identifier, Employee Identification Number ("EIN") of the business entity, business address, telephone number, and email address (if available).

(ii) For each new producer that is an entity and is licensed or authorized under the State or Tribal plan, the report shall include full name of the entity, the principal business location address, license or authorization identifier, and the full name, title, and email address (if available) of each employee for whom the entity is required to submit a criminal history report.

(iii) For each producer that was included in a previous report and whose reported information has changed, the report shall include the previously reported information and the new information.

(2) The status of each producer's license or authorization.

(3) The period covered by the report.

(4) Indication that there were no changes during the current reporting cycle, if applicable.
