
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 990 - DOMESTIC HEMP PRODUCTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 990.70 State and Tribal hemp reporting requirements.
####### State and Tribal hemp disposal or remediation report.

(b)If a producer has produced cannabis exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level, the cannabis must be disposed of or remediated. States and Tribes with plans approved under this part shall submit to USDA, by the first of each month, a report notifying USDA of any occurrence of non-conforming plants or plant material and providing a disposal or remediation record of those plants and materials. This report would include information regarding name and contact information for each producer subject to a disposal or remediation during the reporting period, and date disposal or remediation was completed. If the first of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the due date. The report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (b).

(1) Name and address of the producer.

(2) Producer license or authorization identifier.

(3) Location information, such as lot number, location type, and geospatial location or other location descriptor for the production area subject to disposal or remediation.

(4) Disposal or remediation completion date.

(5) Total acreage.
