
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 993 - DRIED PRUNES PRODUCED IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Grade and Size Regulations
####### ยง 993.50 Outgoing regulation.

(a) Except as otherwise specifically provided, no handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of prunes which fail to meet the applicable minimum standards set forth in ยง 993.97 (Exhibit A), or as such standards may be modified, for standard prunes or standard processed prunes.

(b) The Secretary, on the basis of a recommendation of the committee or other information, may establish size regulations, pack specifications, or more restrictive grade regulations with respect to prunes that may be shipped or otherwise disposed of by a handler if such action would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. If a more restrictive grade regulation is established in connection with ยง 993.97 (Exhibit A) it shall insofar as practicable apply comparably to both natural condition prunes and processed prunes. When pack specifications are in effect, no handler shall ship prunes in consumer packages, unless such prunes are identified by an appropriate label, seal, stamp, or tag affixed to such container by the handler showing the size of prunes in the lot from which the container was packed. In order to effectuate such orderly marketing of prunes as will be in the public interest, whether prices are above or below parity, no handler shall use descriptive terms in a manner inconsistent with that set forth in this subpart or in any pack specifications or other regulation issued by the Secretary pursuant to this subpart.

(c) Non-French prunes: No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of standard prunes or standard processed prunes of the non-French varieties or any lot which includes non-French prunes in excess of a tolerance to be prescribed by the Secretary on recommendation of the Committee, unless the average count of such non-French prunes contained in any such lot is 40 or less per pound. However, under safeguards to be established by the Committee, any lot containing non-French prunes with an average size count of more than 40 prunes per pound may be shipped to or disposed of in prune product outlets in which they lose their form and character as prunes by conversion prior to consumption. A tolerance as to the permitted deviation of sizes about the average count shall be prescribed by the Secretary, upon recommendation of the Committee.

(d) French prunes: No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of French prunes for human consumption as prunes, or any lot of mixed dried fruit containing French prunes for human consumption as mixed dried fruit, unless the average count of French prunes contained in any such lot is 100 or less per pound. However, under safeguards to be established by the Committee, any lot containing French prunes with an average size count of more than 100 prunes per pound may be shipped to or disposed of in prune product outlets in which they lose their form and character as prunes by conversion prior to consumption. In determining whether any such lot conforms to this minimum size requirement, the following tolerance shall apply: In a sample of 100 ounces, the count per pound of 10 ounces of the smallest prunes shall not vary from the count per pound of 10 ounces of the largest prunes by more than 45 points. The Secretary may, upon the basis of the recommendation and information submitted by the Committee and other available information, modify this tolerance for uniformity of size.
