
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 993 - DRIED PRUNES PRODUCED IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart A - Order Regulating Handling
###### Grade and Size Regulations
####### § 993.50 Outgoing regulation.
######## Provided,

(e) No handler shall ship or otherwise make final disposition of any lot of substandard prunes except for use as prune products in which the prunes lose their form and character as prunes by conversion prior to consumption, or for use in non-human consumption outlets:That any such prunes which are shipped or otherwise disposed of for human consumption shall meet the minimum standards prescribed in II C (1), (2), and (3) of § 993.97 or as such standards as may pursuant to § 993.52 be modified. The committee shall issue any such rules and regulations as may be necessary to insure such uses.

(f) Notwithstanding the restrictions contained in this section, any handler may transfer prunes from one plant owned by him to another plant owned by him within the area without having an inspection made as provided for in § 993.51. Any handler may ship prunes from his plant to another handler's plant within the area without having an inspection made as provided for in § 993.51, but a report of such inter-handler transfer shall be made promptly by the transferring handler to the committee. The receiving handler shall, before shipping or otherwise making final disposition of such prunes, comply with the requirements of this section and of § 993.51.

(g) No handler shall ship or otherwise dispose of, for human consumption, the quantity of prunes determined by the inspection service pursuant to § 993.49(c) to be undersized prunes. However, such handler may, at the direction and under the supervision of the Committee, dispose of such quantity of prunes in nonhuman consumption outlets. Prunes so disposed of shall be of the same variety as, and reasonably comparable in size, to such undersized prunes. The handler shall cause the inspection service to make a determination whether the prunes disposed of by the handler in nonhuman consumption outlets meet such requirements. In making the determination with respect to comparability in size, the inspection service shall apply a tolerance permitting a deviation from the size of the applicable opening established pursuant to § 993.49(c). Any such tolerance, together with any rules and regulations to insure proper disposition of the prunes and that such prunes are reasonably comparable to the undersized prunes so received, shall be established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary. The quantity of prunes determined pursuant to § 993.49(c) shall not be deemed to be within the handler's quota for salable prunes fixed by the Secretary within the meaning of section 8a(5) of the Act.
