
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 993 - DRIED PRUNES PRODUCED IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Prune Administrative Committee
####### ยง 993.128 Nominations for membership.
######## Voting procedures,Independent producers.

(b)-(1)Prior to March 8 of each election year, the Committee shall cause a meeting to be held, in each of the election districts established pursuant to ยง 993.28(a) for the purpose of obtaining names of proposed candidates for nomination to the Secretary for selection as members and alternate members for the respective districts. Each such candidate must be a producer in the district for which he is proposed. Prior to March 15 of that election year, the Committee shall prepare for each district and mail to each independent producer of record in such district a ballot as prescribed in ยง 993.28(a). Each voter shall be entitled to cast only one vote for a member nominee and only one vote for an alternate member nominee in a district in which he is a producer, and no voter shall vote for candidates in more than one district. In case he is a producer in more than one district he shall elect in which of such districts he will vote and notify the Committee as to his choice. In order to be counted, such a mail ballot must be executed and returned to the Committee postmarked not later than the following March 31. One nominee for member and one nominee for alternate member for each district shall be submitted to the Secretary by the Committee on the basis of those receiving the plurality of the mail ballots cast for the respective positions in the particular district. Returns shall be considered in light of the voting by each district separately.
