
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 993 - DRIED PRUNES PRODUCED IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Prune Administrative Committee
####### § 993.128 Nominations for membership.
######## Independent handler nominees.

(2)(i) Prior to March 15 of each election year, the Committee shall notify each independent handler of record of the group of independent handlers in which he has been classified pursuant to the provisions of § 993.28(c) and of the number of independent handler positions on the Committee for the ensuing term of office pursuant to the provisions of § 993.24 (b) and (c). Prior to April 1 of each election year, each of the two independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(1) shall notify the Committee in writing of his nominee for member and nominee for alternate member as prescribed therein.

(ii) In any election year in which four member positions and four alternate member positions are assigned to independent handlers for the ensuing term of office, the Committee shall, prior to April 1 of such year, cause to be held a meeting of the three independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(2) and a separate meeting of all other independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(3). Each group at its meeting shall, from among that group, elect one member nominee and one alternate member nominee by plurality vote. Each handler present at the meeting of his group shall be entitled to one vote for a candidate for each position assigned to that group.

(iii) In any election year in which only three member positions and three alternate member positions are assigned to independent handlers for the ensuing term of office, the Committee shall, prior to April 1 thereof, cause to be held a meeting of all independent handlers except those classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(1). At such meeting one member nominee and one alternate member nominee shall be elected in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 993.28(c).
