
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 993 - DRIED PRUNES PRODUCED IN CALIFORNIA
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Grade and Size Regulations
####### ยง 993.150 Disposition of prunes by handlers.
######## Disposition of undersized prunes,Application for and approval of disposition.,Provided,,a

(g)-(1)Undersized prunes accumulated by a handler pursuant to section 993.49(c) shall be disposed of in non-human consumption outlets during the crop year in which the prunes establishing such obligations were received from producers or dehydrators, or such later date that a handler may request in a notice, filed with the Committee at least 30 days prior to July 31 of the year of accumulation:That, such handler has made a bona fide effort to dispose of its undersized prunes as demonstrated by the shipment of at least 65 percent of its undersized obligation by May 31; such handler has a sufficient quantity of undersized prunes held in storage to meet its remaining obligation; and the extension of time requested is not later than 60 days beyond the end of the crop year. Prior to making any such disposition, the handler shall obtain the Committee's approval of his application to do so. The handler's application to ship or otherwise make final disposition of any such undersized prunes shall be submitted on Form PMC 2.21 "Application for Permission to Dispose of Undersized Prunes" which shall set forth: (i) The name and address of the handler's vendee and the name and address of the consignee whether the same as or different from the vendee; (ii) the particular use to be made of the prunes; (iii) if such use is to be by a person other than the handler's vendee or the consignee, the name and address of such user; and (iv) the crop year or the period within, or portion of, the crop year during which shipment or other disposition is to be made. When the use or the name and address of the consignee or user are not known by the handler, the handler shall arrange for the submission of such information to the Committee. If use is to be by the handler, the application shall so indicate and shall set forth all applicable information. Each application for shipment shall be limited to the handler's vendee and the consignee, if different from the vendee, and to a specific user and use. Each application for final disposition for a particular use by the handler shall be limited to such handler and use. The Committee's approval of a handler's application shall be transmitted to the handler on Form PMC 2.31 "Permission to Dispose of Undersized Prunes." In approving an application, the Committee shall specify the crop year or the period within, or the portion of, the crop year for which the approval is granted. When the use or name and address of the user or consignee are not known to the handler, the Committee shall not approve the application until it has been informed as to such use and user and consignee of the prunes. The requirements of ยง 993.150(e)(1)(iv) (except item () thereof), (v), and (vi) with regard to disapproval of applications or revocation of approved applications, evidence of nonhuman disposition, and the maintenance of books and records, applicable to prunes which fail to meet minimum standards, shall also apply to undersized prunes.
