
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 999 - SPECIALTY CROPS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 999.100 Regulation governing imports of walnuts.
###### Inspection and certification.

(c)(1) All inspections and certifications required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be made by USDA inspectors in accordance with the regulations governing the inspection and certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products (Part 51 of this title). The cost of inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant.

(2) Each inspection certificate shall set forth among other things the following:

(i) The date and place of inspection;

(ii) The name of the applicant;

(iii) The name of the importer;

(iv) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;

(v) The quantity and identifying marks of the container; and

(vi) The statement, if applicable, "Meets U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937".

(3) Whenever walnuts are offered for inspection, the applicant shall furnish any labor and pay any costs incurred in moving and opening containers as may be necessary for proper sampling and inspection. The applicant shall also furnish the USDA inspector the entry number and such other identifying information for each lot as he may request.

(4) Inspection must be completed prior to the importation of walnuts.
