
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 999 - SPECIALTY CROPS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 999.300 Regulation governing importation of raisins.
###### Inspection and certification requirements.

(c)(1) All inspections and certifications required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be made by USDA inspectors in accordance with the regulations governing inspection and certification of processed fruits and vegetables, processed products thereof, and certain other processed food products (part 52 of this title). The cost of each such inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant.

(2) Each lot of raisins inspected in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be covered by an inspection certificate. Each such certificate shall set forth, among other things, the following:

(i) The date and place of inspection;

(ii) The name of the applicant;

(iii) The name of the importer;

(iv) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;

(v) The quantity and identifying marks of the lot inspected;

(vi) The statement, as applicable, "Meets U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937" or "Fails to meet U.S. import requirements under section 8e of the AMA Act of 1937"; and

(vii) If the lot fails to meet the import requirements, a statement of the reasons therefor.

(3) Whenever raisins are offered for inspection, the applicant shall furnish any labor and pay any costs incurred in moving and opening containers as may be necessary for proper sampling and inspection. The applicant shall also furnish the USDA inspector the entry number and such other identifying information for each lot as the inspector may request.
