
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter IX - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 999 - SPECIALTY CROPS; IMPORT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 999.500 Safeguard procedures for walnuts, dates, pistachios, and raisins exempt from grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.
###### Certification of exempt use.,e.g.,

(b)(1) Each importer of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall certify on the FV-6 form (electronic or paper) as to the intended exempt outlet (processing, charity, livestock feed). If certification is made using a paper FV-6 form, the importer shall provide a handwritten signature on the form.

(2) Each receiver of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall also receive a copy of the associated FV-6 form (electronic or paper) filed by the importer. Within two days of receipt of the exempt lot, the receiver shall certify on the form (electronic or paper) that such lot has been received and will be utilized in the exempt outlet as certified by the importer. If certification is made using a paper FV-6 form, the receiver shall provide a handwritten signature on the form.

(c) It is the responsibility of the importer to notify the Marketing Order and Agreement Division of any lot of exempt commodity rejected by a receiver, shipped to an alternative exempt receiver, exported, or otherwise disposed of. In such cases, a second FV-6 form must be filed by the importer, providing sufficient information to determine ultimate disposition of the exempt lot, and such disposition shall be so certified by the final receiver.
