
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 20 - EXPORT SALES REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
#### ยง 20.6 Submission of reports.
##### Weekly reports.,esr@fas.usda.gov.

(a)For each commodity for which reports are required under these regulations, the reporting exporter shall file weekly with the office specified in ยง 20.10 and not later than the time specified in paragraph (k) of this section, a report by marketing year on the applicable forms contained in appendix 2 (FAS-97, "Report of Optional Origin Sales," FAS-98, "Report of Export Sales and Exports," and on FAS-100, "Report of Exports for Exporter's Own Account"), setting forth the following information and that required by such forms. Information for each applicable item on the respective form shall be reported. If the reporting exporter determines that the report forms cannot be received in the office specified in "20.10 by the time specified in paragraph (k) of this section, the exporter shall transmit the information contained in the report forms by the use of FAX, telephone, or electronic submission. The required form must be subsequently submitted in accordance with ยง 20.6(k)(2). Exporters have the option to submit the weekly reports using an electronic reporting system (forms 97e, 98e, and 100e) which may be accessed via a secured Internet website. Reporting exporters should contact the Export Sales Reporting staff to obtain passwords and access to the Internet reporting site. Exporters also have the option of satisfying the requirements of Forms FAS-97, FAS-98, and FAS-100 by submitting ASCII comma delimited files via e-mail to the ESR mailbox at
