
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 20 - EXPORT SALES REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
#### ยง 20.6 Submission of reports.
##### Exporters who are required to report.

(c)The reporting exporter has the sole responsibility of reporting any and all information required by these regulations. The following are examples of who shall be considered the reporting exporter for the purpose of these regulations. (Firm A in each example is a firm whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States, and the commodity to be delivered under the purchase contract is subject to these regulations. See ยง 20.4(i) for definition of a foreign buyer and foreign seller.)

(1) Firm A makes an export sale to Firm B whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is also in the United States. Firm B has made or will make an export sale to a foreign buyer. In this case Firm A cannot report the sale to Firm B since Firm B's place of doing business with respect to the transaction is located in the United States. In this example, Firm B is required to report the sale to the foreign buyer.

(2) Firm A makes an export sale to a foreign buyer through the foreign buyer's agent and the agent's place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States. In this example Firm A is required to report the export sale since the resulting contract is between Firm A and the foreign buyer.

(3) Firm A consigns an export to his agent (other than an employee of Firm A). When the agent makes a sale to a foreign buyer, Firm A is required to report the sale. If the agent makes the sale to a firm whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States, Firm A will not report the sale.

(4) Firm A makes a purchase from a foreign seller. In this example, Firm A is required to report the purchase.

(5) Firm A makes a purchase from an agent of a foreign seller and the agent's place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States. In this example, Firm A is required to report the purchase. The agent is not a principal party in interest in the contract and cannot report the sale to Firm A. The foreign seller is not a reporting exporter and is not required to make a report of the sale.

(6) Firm A, the agent of the foreign buyer, whose place of doing business with respect to the transaction is in the United States, purchases commodities domestically at interior warehouses and arranges for exportation to its principal, the foreign buyer. In this example, Firm A is required to report the sale and export.

(7) If a reporting exporter has a transaction not described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of this paragraph (c) and is in doubt whether a transaction should be reported, the exporter should request a decision from the office specified in ยง 20.10.
