
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 20 - EXPORT SALES REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
#### § 20.6 Submission of reports.
##### Time of filing reports.

(2)Information required to be reported weekly (either via fax, telephone, or electronically) must be received in the office specified in § 20.10 no later than 11:59 p.m. eastern time, on each Monday or such other time as may be approved in advance by that office. Such weekly report must set forth the required information as to export sales transactions made during the seven day period ending the preceding Thursday, midnight. If Friday or Monday is a national holiday, the due date shall be Tuesday. If information is transmitted by other than use of forms specified in § 20.6(a) (such as by use of telephone or electronic transmission) the required forms containing such information shall be transmitted by first class mail the next business day. It is the responsibility of the reporting exporter to arrange the most efficient and expeditious manner for the office specified in § 20.10 to receive the reported information. Information required to be reported monthly must be received in the office specified in § 20.10 no later than 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, the fourth business day following the end of the reporting month, or such other time as may be approved in advance by that office, setting forth the required information as to export sales transactions made during the reporting month ending midnight the last day of such month.
