
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 22 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION
#### Subpart B - Roles and Responsibilities of Federal Government
##### ยง 22.203 Major responsibilities under title VI, Sec. 603.
###### Title VI, section 603(b).

(a)(1) Section 603(b) of the Rural Development Act charges the Secretary of Agriculture with providing leadership in the development of a nationwide rural development program. Included in this program would be pertinent Federal departments and agencies which might contribute to this rural development mission. In carrying out his responsibilities, the Secretary shall report annually, prior to September 1, to the Congress on rural development goals for employment, income, population, housing, and quality of community services and facilities. To carry out the provisions of the Act specified above, the following major responsibilities are identified:

(i) The Rural Development Committee of the Domestic Council will assume responsibility for interdepartmental policy formulation and resolution of issues pertaining to this section of the Act as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture. This committee consists of members of the Community Development Committee of the Domestic Council, to wit: The Secretary of Agriculture, Chairman of the Rural Development Committee; the Secretary of HUD, Chairman of the Urban Development Committee; the Secretary of Transportation, Chairman of the Transportation Policy Development Committee; the Secretaries of Treasury, Commerce, and Labor and the Director of OMB.

(ii) The Secretary of Agriculture shall be responsible for Washington level coordination pursuant to this section of the Act.

(iii) At the regional level, the Federal Regional Councils shall develop and implement procedures designed to identify and facilitate access to Federal resources appropriate for rural development purposes within States. Such procedures will be consistent with policies expressed or endorsed by the Under Secretaries' Group. The Councils shall also be responsible for monitoring the effectiveness with which the Rural Development Act is implemented within their respective regions.

(2) The Secretary of Agriculture is also authorized to initiate or expand research and development efforts related to solution of rural development problems including problems of rural water supply, rural sewage and solid waste management, and rural industrialization.

(3) The Rural Development Service will operate a rural development research program and may also participate in rural development research in cooperation with Federal, State, and private research units.
