
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 22 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION
#### Subpart B - Roles and Responsibilities of Federal Government
##### ยง 22.203 Major responsibilities under title VI, Sec. 603.
###### Title VI, section 603(c) of the Rural Development Act.

(b)(1) Under guidance by the Under Secretaries' Group, and under the leadership of the U.S. Department of Agriculture member on each of the Federal Regional Councils, the Rural Development Committees of the Federal Regional Councils or other Federal Regional Council mechanisms assigned to work with rural development, shall be responsible for proposing to the appropriate Federal and State agencies actions in such areas as:

(i) Adjustment, where appropriate, of administrative boundaries used by field staffs of Federal and federally supported agencies to conform with boundaries of multicounty jurisdictions. "Multicounty jurisdictions" as used means substate planning districts or other combinations of county jurisdictions as designated by States for State planning purposes.

(ii) Co-location of field units of Federal agencies and consolidation of offices in the vicinity of principal centers of local government administration (including multicounty jurisdictional administration), to encourage increased cooperation within and among different governmental levels.

(iii) Exchange of personnel between Federal and State agencies under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act (Pub. L. 91-648), to supplement and broaden staffs administering rural development programs, and provide specific technical expertise for certain projects.

(iv) Interchange of personnel among Federal agencies for the purposes expressed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) In addition, the U.S. Department of Agriculture member on the Federal Regional Councils shall, by July 31, of each year, report to the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development who shall in turn report to the Under Secretaries' Group and the Congress on progress made in carrying out the programs outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section and plans for programs to be implemented during the following fiscal year. The first report will be due to the Assistant Secretary by July 31, 1974.
