
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 22 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION
#### Subpart B - Roles and Responsibilities of Federal Government
##### ยง 22.205 Allocation of loan and grant funds.

(a) Title I grant funds and approved loan funding levels will be allocated among States by a formula designed to ensure equitable treatment. This applies to amounts made available for business and industrial loans, water, sewer and other community facilities except electrical and telephone facilities provided by or through the Rural Electrification Administration.

(b) During the second half of the fiscal year, the Secretary of Agriculture shall review State and multicounty jurisdictional rural development programs and projects so that unused allocations may be shifted from one State to another so as to enable the obligation of all available funds prior to the end of the fiscal year.

(c) The formula used for fund allocation will ensure that a minimum loan and grant level is established so that no State receives an amount too small to serve the purposes of the Act. A percentage of total loan and grant authority will be withheld from initial allocation to allow subsequent appropriate technical adjustments in amounts allocated to individual States.

(d) Title V funds shall be distributed by the Secretary under the formula specified in the Act. Title V activities will be consistent with the principle that States and multicounty jurisdictions have responsibility for the rural development planning and priority setting functions.
