
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 23 - STATE AND REGIONAL ANNUAL PLANS OF WORK
#### Subpart B - Regional Program
##### ยง 23.9 General.

(a) Section 503(b)(2), title V, of the Rural Development Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-419) hereafter referred to as "Title V" authorizes funds to finance work authorized under title V which serve two or more States; in which universities in two or more States cooperate; or which is conducted by one University serving two or more States. The authorized funding under section 503(b)(2) is hereafter referred to as the "Regional Programs."

(b) The Regional Programs shall develop and provide knowledge essential to assist and support rural development in the region, and shall provide for technical consultation and personnel development for the research and extension staff in the several States of the region to help them to be more responsive to rural development needs and activities.

(c) The Regional Programs will concentrate on the high priority knowledge, training, and personnel needs required for the research and extension staff in the several States to conduct effective rural development research and extension to carry out the provisions of title V. These efforts may include personnel development and consultation; synthesis of existing research knowledge and the interpretation of this knowledge for rural development program and policy purposes; the development of strategies and procedures on high priority rural development problems of regional significance; as funds permit, the conduct of research on one of two high priority problems for which information is lacking but is urgently needed for rural development, and the evaluation of rural development programs and policies.

(d) Regional Programs will be consonant with all rural development activities under the Act and other pertinent Federal development programs. To effectuate such purpose, the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education will implement title V plans and activities in close cooperation with the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development. In order to insure such consonance, the Director of each Regional Center will insure that regional programs having an impact within one or more States are brought to the attention of the appropriate State overall coordinator for consideration pursuant to procedures in ยง 23.4(c).
