
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 23 - STATE AND REGIONAL ANNUAL PLANS OF WORK
#### Subpart B - Regional Program
##### ยง 23.13 Plan of Work.

(a) A Regional Plan of Work for carrying out the programs authorized to be funded under section 503(b)(2) of title V shall be prepared. The Plan of Work should include:

(1) A brief narrative statement including identification of high priority knowledge, skill, and organization needs for rural development program and policy purposes in the region and identification of technical consultation, training, and personnel needs of research and extension workers in support of rural development programs.

(2) A statement indicating:

(i) The types of personnel to be trained, technical consultation to be conducted, the estimated number of participants, the location or locations where the program will be conducted, and the staff who will conduct the work;

(ii) The types of topical areas of rural development for which the synthesis of available research knowledge for rural development purposes is planned;

(iii) The type of high priority rural development research which will be undertaken as funds permit and the staff which would do the research;

(iv) The type of evaluation studies which will be made and the staff which will do the evaluation; and

(v) The relationship of the Plan of Work to priorities activated under subpart A of this part, which in turn support State development strategies.

(3) A concise statement of the organization structure for planning and conducting the program funded under section 503(b)(2).

(4) A plan for evaluating the usefulness of the program and the effectiveness of the organizational structure.

(5) Provision for making an annual progress report to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education which will document achievements pertaining to the goals and objectives as stated in the Plan of Work.

(6) A budget statement to be submitted on forms provided by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education.

(b) The Plan of Work shall be coordinated with the work program of other pertinent multi-State organizations or bodies for those activities of the Regional Rural Development Centers which go beyond direct assistance to individual State programs conducted under title V.

(c) The Director of the Center will forward four copies of the Plan of Work to the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250, by a time to be specified by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education.

(d) Regional Annual Plans of Work not meeting the above criteria will not be approved by the Assistant Secretary for Conservation, Research and Education.
