
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1126 - MILK IN THE SOUTHWEST MARKETING AREA
##### Subpart - Order Regulating Handling
###### Producer Price Differential
####### § 1126.60 Handler's value of milk.

For the purpose of computing a handler's obligation for producer milk, the market administrator shall determine for each month the value of milk of each handler with respect to each of the handler's pool plants and of each handler described in § 1000.9(c) with respect to milk that was not received at a pool plant by adding the amounts computed in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section and subtracting from that total amount the value computed in paragraph (j) of this section. Unless otherwise specified, the skim milk, butterfat, and the combined pounds of skim milk and butterfat referred to in this section shall result from the steps set forth in § 1000.44(a), (b), and (c), respectively, and the nonfat components of producer milk in each class shall be based upon the proportion of such components in producer skim milk. Receipts of nonfluid milk products that are distributed as labeled reconstituted milk for which payments are made to the producer-settlement fund of another Federal order under § 1000.76(a)(4) or (d) shall be excluded from pricing under this section.

(a) Class I value.

(1) Multiply the pounds of skim milk in Class I by the Class I skim milk price; and

(2) Add an amount obtained by multiplying the pounds of butterfat in Class I by the Class I butterfat price.

(b) Class II value.

(1) Multiply the pounds of nonfat solids in Class II skim milk by the Class II nonfat solids price; and

(2) Add an amount obtained by multiplying the pounds of butterfat in Class II times the Class II butterfat price.

(c) Class III value.

(1) Multiply the pounds of protein in Class III skim milk by the protein price;

(2) Add an amount obtained by multiplying the pounds of other solids in Class III skim milk by the other solids price; and

(3) Add an amount obtained by multiplying the pounds of butterfat in Class III by the butterfat price.

(d) Class IV value.

(1) Multiply the pounds of nonfat solids in Class IV skim milk by the nonfat solids price; and

(2) Add an amount obtained by multiplying the pounds of butterfat in Class IV by the butterfat price.

(e) Compute an adjustment for the somatic cell content of producer milk by multiplying the values reported pursuant to § 1126.30(a)(1) and (c)(1) by the percentage of total producer milk allocated to Class II, Class III, and Class IV pursuant to § 1000.44(c);

(f) Multiply the pounds of skim milk and butterfat overage assigned to each class pursuant to § 1000.44(a)(11) and the corresponding step of § 1000.44(b) by the skim milk prices and butterfat prices applicable to each class.

(g) Multiply the difference between the current month's Class I, II, or III price, as the case may be, and the Class IV price for the preceding month by the hundredweight of skim milk and butterfat subtracted from Class I, II, or III, respectively, pursuant to § 1000.44(a)(7) and the corresponding step of § 1000.44(b);

(h) Multiply the difference between the Class I price applicable at the location of the pool plant and the Class IV price by the hundredweight of skim milk and butterfat assigned to Class I pursuant to § 1000.43(d) and the hundredweight of skim milk and butterfat subtracted from Class I pursuant to § 1000.44(a)(3)(i) through (vi) and the corresponding step of § 1000.44(b), excluding receipts of bulk fluid cream products from plants regulated under other Federal orders and bulk concentrated fluid milk products from pool plants, plants regulated under other Federal orders, and unregulated supply plants.

(i) Multiply the difference between the Class I price applicable at the location of the nearest unregulated supply plants from which an equivalent volume was received and the Class III price by the pounds of skim milk and butterfat in receipts of concentrated fluid milk products assigned to Class I pursuant to § 1000.43(d) and § 1000.44(a)(3)(i) and the corresponding step of § 1000.44(b) and the pounds of skim milk and butterfat subtracted from Class I pursuant to § 1000.44(a)(8) and the corresponding step of § 1000.44(b), excluding such skim milk and butterfat in receipts of fluid milk products from an unregulated supply plant to the extent that an equivalent amount of skim milk or butterfat disposed of to such plant by handlers fully regulated under any Federal milk order is classified and priced as Class I milk and is not used as an offset for any other payment obligation under any order.

(j) For reconstituted milk made from receipts of nonfluid milk products, multiply $1.00 (but not more than the difference between the Class I price applicable at the location of the pool plant and the Class IV price) by the hundredweight of skim milk and butterfat contained in receipts of nonfluid milk products that are allocated to Class I use pursuant to § 1000.43(d).
