
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1145 - DAIRY FORWARD PRICING PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Program Rules
###### ยง 1145.2 Program.

(a) Any handler defined in 7 CFR 1000.9 may enter into forward contracts with producers or cooperative associations of producers for the handler's eligible volume of milk. Milk under forward contract in compliance with the provisions of this part will be exempt from the minimum payment provisions that would apply to such milk pursuant to 7 CFR 1001.73, 1005.73, 1006.73, 1007.73, 1030.73, 1032.73, 1033.73, 1051.73, 1124.73, 1126.73 and 1131.73 for the period of time covered by the contract.

(b) No forward price contract may be entered into under the program after September 30, 2023, and no forward contract entered into under the program may extend beyond September 30, 2026.

(c) Forward contracts must be signed and dated by the contracting handler and producer (or cooperative association) prior to the 1st day of the 1st month for which they are to be effective and must be received by the Federal milk market administrator by the 15th day of that month. The disclosure statement must be signed on the same date as the contract by each producer entering into a forward contract, and this signed disclosure statement must be attached to or otherwise included in each contract submitted to the market administrator.

(d) In the event that a handler's contract milk exceeds the handler's eligible milk for any month in which the specified contract price(s) are below the order's minimum prices, the handler must designate which producer milk shall not be contract milk. If the handler does not designate the suppliers of the over-contracted milk, the market administrator shall prorate the over-contracted milk to each producer and cooperative association having a forward contract with the handler.

(e) Payments for milk covered by a forward contract must be made on or before the dates applicable to payments for milk that are not under forward contract under the respective Federal milk marketing order.

(f) Nothing in this part shall impede the contractual arrangements that exist between a cooperative association and its members.
