
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1150 - DAIRY PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Dairy Promotion and Research Order
###### National Dairy Promotion and Research Board
####### § 1150.131 Establishment and membership.

(a) There is hereby established a National Dairy Promotion and Research Board.

(b) Thirty-six members of the Board shall be United States producers. For purposes of nominating producers to the Board, the United States shall be divided into twelve geographic regions and the number of Board members from each region shall be as follows:

(1) Two members from region number one comprised of the following States: Alaska, Oregon and Washington.

(2) Seven members from region number two comprised of the following States: California and Hawaii.

(3) Two members from region number three comprised of the following States: Arizona, Colorado, Montana, Nevada, Utah and Wyoming.

(4) Four members from region number four comprised of the following States: Arkansas, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas.

(5) Two members from region number five comprised of the following States: Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota.

(6) Five members from region number six comprised of the following State: Wisconsin.

(7) Two members from region number seven comprised of the following States: Illinois, Iowa, Missouri and Nebraska.

(8) Two members from region number eight comprised of the following State: Idaho.

(9) Three members from region number nine comprised of the following States: Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and West Virginia.

(10) Two members from region number ten comprised of the following States: Alabama, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia.

(11) Two members from region number eleven comprised of the following States: Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

(12) Three members from region number twelve comprised of the following States: Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont.

(c) One member of the board shall be an importer who is subject to assessments under § 1150.152(b).

(d) The Board shall be composed of milk producers and importers appointed by the Secretary either from nominations submitted pursuant to § 1150.133 or in accordance with § 1150.136. A milk producer may be nominated only to represent the region in which such producer's milk is produced.

(e) At least every five years, and not more than every three years, the Board shall review the geographic distribution of milk production volume throughout the United States and, if warranted, shall recommend to the Secretary a reapportionment of regions and/or a modification of the number of producer members from regions in order to best reflect the geographic distribution of milk production volume in the United States.

(f) At least once every three years, after the initial appointment of importer representatives on the Board, the Secretary shall review the average volume of domestic production of dairy products compared to the average volume of imports of dairy products into the United States during the previous three years and, on the basis of that review, if warranted, reapportion the importer representation on the Board to reflect the proportional shares of the United States market served by domestic production and imported dairy products. The basis for comparison of domestic production of dairy products to imported products shall be estimated total milk solids. The calculation of total milk solids of imported dairy products for reapportionment purposes shall be the same as the calculation of total milk solids of imported dairy products for assessment purposes.

(g) In determining the volume of milk produced and total milk solids of dairy products produced in the United States, the Board and Secretary shall utilize the information received by the Board pursuant to § 1150.171(a) and data published by the Department.
