
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1150 - DAIRY PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Dairy Promotion and Research Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### § 1150.153 Qualified dairy product promotion, research or nutrition education programs.

(a) Any producer organization that conducts a State or regional dairy product promotion, research or nutrition education program, authorized by Federal or State law; or has been an active and ongoing producer program before enactment of the Act; or is an importer organization that conducts a promotion, research, or nutrition education program may apply to the Secretary for certification of qualification so that:

(1) Producers may receive credit pursuant to § 1150.152(a)(3) for contributions to such program; and

(2) The Board may remit payments designated by importers pursuant to § 1150.152(b)(5).

(b) In order to be certified by the Secretary as a qualified program, the program must:

(1) Conduct activities as defined in §§ 1150.114, 1150.115, and 1150.116 that are intended to increase consumption of milk and dairy products generally;

(2) Except for producer programs operated under the laws of the United States or any State, and except for importer programs, have been active and ongoing before enactment of the Act;

(3) For producer organizations, be financed primarily by producers, either individually or through cooperative associations, or for importer organizations, be financed primarily by importers;

(4) Not use a private brand or trade name in its advertising and promotion of dairy products unless the Board recommends and the Secretary concurs that such preclusion should not apply;

(5) Certify to the Secretary that any requests from producers or importers for refunds under the program will be honored by forwarding to either the Board or a qualified program designated by the producer or importer that portion of such refunds equal to the amount that otherwise would be applicable to that program pursuant to § 1150.152(a)(3) or (b)(5); and

(6) Not use program funds for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action.

(c) An application for certification of qualifications of any dairy product promotion, research or nutrition education program which does not satisfy the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be denied. The certification of any qualified program which fails to satisfy the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section after certification shall be subject to suspension or termination.

(1) Prior to the denial of an application for certification of qualification, or the suspension or termination of an existing certification, the Director of the Dairy Division shall afford the applicant or the holder of an existing certification an opportunity to achieve compliance with the requirements for certification within a reasonable time, as determined by the Director.

(2) Any dairy product promotion, research or nutrition education program whose application for certification of qualification is to be denied, or whose certification of qualification is to be suspended or terminated shall be given written notice of such pending action and shall be afforded an opportunity to petition the Secretary for a review of the action. The petition shall be in writing and shall state the facts relevant to the matter for which the review is sought, and whether petitioner desires an informal hearing. If an informal hearing is not requested, the Director of the Dairy Division shall issue a final decision setting forth the action to be taken and the basis for such action. If petitioner requests a hearing, the Director of the Dairy Division, or a person designated by the Director, shall hold an informal hearing in the following manner:

(i) Notice of a hearing shall be given in writing and shall be mailed to the last known address of the petitioner or of the program, or to an officer thereof, at least 20 days before the date set for the hearing. Such notice shall contain the time and place of the hearing and may contain a statement of the reason for calling the hearing and the nature of the questions upon which evidence is desired or upon which argument may be presented. The hearing place shall be as convenient to the program as can reasonably be arranged.

(ii) Hearings are not to be public and are to be attended only by representatives of the petitioner or the program and of the U.S. Government, and such other parties as either the program or the U.S. Government desires to have appear for purposes of submitting information or as counsel.

(iii) The Director of the Dairy Division, or a person designated by the Director, shall be the presiding officer at the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in such manner as will be most conducive to the proper disposition of the matter. Written statements or briefs may be filed by the petitioner or the program, or other participating parties, within the time specified by the presiding officer.

(iv) The presiding officer shall prepare preliminary findings setting forth a recommendation as to what action should be taken and the basis for such action. A copy of such findings shall be served upon the petitioner or the program by mail or in person. Written exceptions to the findings may be filed within 10 days after service thereof.

(v) After due consideration of all the facts and the exceptions, if any, the Director of the Dairy Division shall issue a final decision setting forth the action to be taken and the basis for such action.
