
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1150 - DAIRY PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Dairy Promotion and Research Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### § 1150.152 Assessments.
######## Domestic Assessments.

(a)(1) Each person making payment to a producer for milk produced in the United States and marketed for commercial use shall collect an assessment on all such milk handled for the account of the producer at the rate of 15 cents per hundredweight of milk for commercial use, or the equivalent thereof, and shall remit the assessment to the Board.

(2) Any producer marketing milk of that producer's own production in the form of milk or dairy products to consumers, either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets, shall remit to the Board an assessment on such milk at the rate of 15 cents per hundredweight of milk for commercial use or the equivalent thereof.

(3) In determining the assessment due from each producer pursuant to § 1150.152(a)(1) and (a)(2), a producer who is participating in a qualified program(s) under § 1150.153 shall receive a credit for contributions to such program(s), but not to exceed 10 cents per hundredweight of milk marketed.

(4) In order for a producer described in § 1150.152(a)(1) to receive the credit authorized in § 1150.152(a)(3), either the producer or a cooperative association on behalf of the producer must establish to the person responsible for remitting the assessment to the Board that the producer is contributing to a qualified program under § 1150.153. Producers who contribute to a qualified program directly (other than through a payroll deduction) must establish with the person responsible for remitting the assessment to the Board, with validation by the qualified program, that they are making such contributions.

(5) In order for a producer described in § 1150.152(a)(2) to receive the credit authorized in § 1150.152(a)(3), the producer and the applicable qualified program must establish to the Board that the producer is contributing to the qualified program.

(6) The collection of assessments pursuant to § 1150.152(a)(1) and (a)(2) shall begin with respect to milk marketed on and after the effective date of this section and shall continue until terminated by the Secretary.

(7) Each person responsible for the remittance of the assessment pursuant to § 1150.152(a)(1) and (a)(2) shall remit the assessment to the Board not later than the last day of the month following the month in which the milk was marketed.

(8) Money remitted to the Board shall be in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable to "National Dairy Promotion and Research Board." Remittances and reports specified in § 1150.171(a) shall be mailed to the location designated by the Secretary or the Board.
