
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1150 - DAIRY PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Dairy Promotion and Research Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1150.156 Charges and penalties.
######## Late-payment charge.

(a)Any unpaid assessments due to the Board pursuant to ยง 1150.152 shall be increased 1.5 percent each month beginning with the day following the date such assessments were due. Any remaining amount due, which shall include any unpaid charges previously made pursuant to this section, shall be increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid.

(1) For the purpose of this section, any assessment pursuant to ยง 1150.152(a) that was determined at a date later than prescribed by this subpart because of a person's failure to submit a report to the Board when due shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would have been due if the report had been filed when due. The timeliness of a payment to the Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the Board, whichever is earlier.

(2) For the purpose of this section, any assessment not collected by CBP at the time entry summary documents are filed by the importer is considered to be past due. If CBP does not collect an assessment from an importer, the importer shall be responsible for paying the assessment and any late charges to the Secretary in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable to "USDA." The payment shall be mailed to a location designated by the Secretary or sent in an electronic form approved by the Secretary.
