
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1150 - DAIRY PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Dairy Promotion and Research Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### § 1150.152 Assessments.
######## Importer assessments.

(b)(1) Each importer of dairy products identified in the following table, except for as provided for in § 1150.157, is responsible for paying an assessment of 7.5 cents per hundredweight of U.S. milk, or equivalent thereof. The importer shall use the assessment rate of $0.01327 per kilogram (kg) of milk solids to calculate and pay the assessment.

(2) The assessment on imported dairy products shall be paid by the importer to CBP at the time of entry summary for any products identified in § 1150.152(b)(1).

(3) The assessments collected by CBP pursuant to § 1150.152(b)(2) of this section shall be transferred to the Board in compliance with an agreement between CBP and the Secretary.

(4) The Secretary, at his or her discretion, shall verify the information reported by importers to CBP to determine if additional money is due the Board or an amount is due to an importer based on the quantity imported and the milk solids content per unit. In the case of money due to an importer from the Board, the Board will issue payment promptly to the importer. In the case of money due from the importer to the Board, the Secretary will send an invoice for payment directly to the importer. The remittance will be due to the Secretary upon receipt of the invoice. The Secretary will promptly forward such payments received to the Board.

(5) If an importer elects to have funds remitted to a qualified program(s), the importer shall inform the Secretary of such designation by sending a letter to an address provided by the Secretary. Importer remittances for qualified program(s) shall not exceed 2.5 cents per hundredweight of milk, or equivalent thereof, of the 7.5 cents per hundredweight of milk, or equivalent thereof, paid by the importer pursuant to § 1150.152(b)(1). The Secretary shall compute the funds due for each qualified program designated by importers and direct the Board to forward such funds to each qualified program.

(6) Assessments collected on imported dairy products shall not be used for foreign market promotion of United States dairy products.

(7) Any money received by the Board pursuant to § 1150.152(b)(1) before the Secretary appoints the initial importer representatives to the Board shall not be spent by the Board but shall be held in escrow until such appointment.

(8) The collection of assessments pursuant to § 1150.152(a) and (b) shall continue until terminated by the Secretary.
