
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1160 - FLUID MILK PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Fluid Milk Promotion Order
###### National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board
####### ยง 1160.200 Establishment and membership.

(a) There is hereby established a National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board of 20 members, 15 of whom shall represent geographic regions and five of whom shall be at-large members of the Board. To the extent practicable, members representing geographic regions shall represent fluid milk processing operations of differing sizes. No fluid milk processor shall be represented on the Board by more than three members. The at-large members shall include at least three fluid milk processors and at least one member from the general public. Except for the non-processor member or members from the general public, nominees appointed to the Board must be active owners or employees of a fluid milk processor. The failure of such a member to own or work for such fluid milk processor shall disqualify that member for membership on the Board except that such member shall continue to serve on the Board for a period not to exceed 6 months following the disqualification or until appointment of a successor Board member to such position, whichever is sooner, provided that such person continues to meet the criteria for serving on the Board as a processor representative. Should a member representing the general public cease to be employed by the entity employing that member when appointed, gain employment with a new employer, or cease to own or operate the business which that member owned or operated at the date of appointment, such member shall be disqualified for membership on the Board, except that such member shall continue to serve on the Board for a period not to exceed 6 months, or until appointment of a successor Board member, whichever is sooner.

(b) In selecting the 15 Board members who represent geographic regions, one member shall be selected from each of the following regions:
