
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1160 - FLUID MILK PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Fluid Milk Promotion Order
###### National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board
####### § 1160.211 Assessments.

(a)(1) Each fluid milk processor shall pay to the Board or its designated agent an assessment of $.20 per hundredweight of fluid milk products processed and marketed commercially in consumer-type packages in the United States by such fluid milk processor. Any fluid milk processor who markets milk of its own production directly to consumers as prescribed under section 113(g) of the Dairy Production Stabilization Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 4504(g)), and not exempt under § 1160.108 or § 1160.215, shall also pay the assessment under this subpart. The Secretary shall have the authority to receive assessments on behalf of the Board.

(2) The Secretary shall announce the establishment of the assessment each month in the Class I price announcement in each milk marketing area by adding it to the Class I price for the following month. In the event the assessment is suspended for a given month, the Secretary shall inform all fluid milk processors of the suspension in the Class I price announcement for that month. The Secretary shall also inform fluid milk processors marketing fluid milk in areas not subject to milk marketing orders administered by the Secretary of the establishment or suspension of the assessment.

(3) Each processor responsible for remitting an assessment shall remit it to the Board not later than the last day of the month following the month that the assessed milk was marketed.

(b) Such assessments shall not:

(1) Reduce the prices paid under the Federal milk marketing orders issued under section 8c of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c), reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937;

(2) Otherwise be deducted from the amounts that handlers must pay to producers for fluid milk products sold to a processor; or

(3) Otherwise be deducted from the price of milk paid to a producer by a handler, as determined by the Secretary.

(c) Money remitted to the Board or the Board's designated agent shall be in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable to the Board or its agent, as the case may be. Processors must mail remittances and reports specified in §§ 1160.108, 1160.211(a)(1), 1160.213, 1160.214, and 1160.401 to the location designated by the Board or its agent.
