
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1160 - FLUID MILK PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Fluid Milk Promotion Order
###### National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board
####### ยง 1160.210 Expenses.

(a) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses (including provision for a reasonable reserve) as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its administration, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart; except that, after the Board's first year, it shall not spend on its administration more than 5 percent of the assessments collected during any fiscal period subsequent to the initial fiscal period. Such administrative expenses shall be paid from assessments collected pursuant to ยง 1160.211.

(b) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for administrative costs incurred by the Department from assessments collected pursuant to ยง 1160.211.

(c) Within 30 days after funds are remitted from Regions 14 and 15, the Board shall provide a grant of 80% of such funds to the entity authorized by the laws of the State of California to conduct an advertising program for fluid milk products in that State for the purpose of implementing a coordinated advertising program in the markets within those regions. Such grant shall be provided with the approval of the Secretary on the following conditions:

(1) The granted funds shall be utilized to implement a fluid milk promotion campaign within the markets within those regions. Verification of the implementation of this program shall be provided to the Board.

(2) The Board shall ensure that the recipients of these funds implement a research and evaluation program to determine the effect of such program on consumption of fluid milk within the region.

(3) The recipient of these funds must provide to the Board data from the research and evaluation programs so that the Board can determine the effect of the program on consumption of fluid milk.
