
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1160 - FLUID MILK PROMOTION PROGRAM
##### Subpart - Procedure for Conduct of Referenda in Connection with a Fluid Milk Promotion Order
###### ยง 1160.603 Who may vote.

(a) Each person who was a fluid milk processor during the representative period, as determined by the Secretary, and who at the time of voter registration and when voting is processing and marketing commercially fluid milk products in consumer-type packages in the United States shall be entitled to vote in a referendum, and no such person shall be refused a ballot. Any person casting more than one ballot with conflicting votes shall thereby invalidate all ballots cast by such person in such referendum. Each person voting shall have registered with the referendum agent prior to the voting period. Each ballot cast shall contain a certification by the person casting the ballot that such person is qualified to vote. All information required on the ballot pertinent to the identification of the person voting must be supplied and certified to as being correct in order for the ballot to be valid.

(b) Voting by proxy or agent will not be permitted. However, the ballot of a fluid milk processor who is other than an individual may be cast by a person who is duly authorized to do so, and such ballot shall contain a certification by such person that the entity on whose behalf the ballot is cast was a fluid milk processor during the representative period. All information required on the ballot pertinent to the identification of the fluid milk processor on whose behalf the ballot is cast must be supplied and certified to as being correct in order for the ballot to be valid.
