
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1170 - DAIRY PRODUCT MANDATORY REPORTING
##### ยง 1170.7 Reporting requirements.

(a) All dairy product manufacturers, with the exception of those who are exempt as described in ยง 1170.9, shall submit a report weekly to the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) by Tuesday, 12 noon local time of reporting entities, on all products sold as specified in ยง 1170.8 during the 7 days ending 12 midnight of the previous Saturday, local time of the plant or storage facility where the sales are made. If a Federal holiday falls on Monday through Wednesday of a particular week, the due date for report submission may be adjusted. Prior to the beginning of each calendar year, AMS shall release, to manufacturers that are required to report, the times and dates that reports are due. For the applicable products, the report shall be submitted by electronic means specified by AMS and shall indicate the name, address, plant location(s), quantities sold, total sales dollars, dollars per pound, and the moisture content where applicable. Each sale shall be reported for the time period when the transaction is completed, i.e. the product is "shipped out" and title transfer occurs. Each sale shall be reported either f.o.b. plant if the product is "shipped out" from the plant or f.o.b. storage facility location if the product is "shipped out" from a storage facility. In calculating the total dollars received and dollars per pound, the reporting entity shall neither add transportation charges incurred at the time the product is "shipped out" or after the product is "shipped out" nor deduct transportation charges incurred before the product is "shipped out." In calculating the total dollars received and dollars per pound, the reporting entity shall not deduct brokerage fees or clearing charges paid by the manufacturer.

(b) Manufacturers or other persons storing dairy products are required to report, on a monthly basis, stocks of dairy products (as defined in ยง 1170.4) on hand, on the appropriate forms supplied by the National Agricultural Statistic Service. The report shall indicate the name, address, and stocks on hand at the end of the month for each storage location.
