
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter X - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1170 - DAIRY PRODUCT MANDATORY REPORTING
##### ยง 1170.14 Noncompliance procedures.

(a) When the Secretary becomes aware that a manufacturer or person may have willfully delayed reporting of, or failed or refused to provide, accurate information pursuant to section 273(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act, the Secretary may issue a cease and desist order.

(b) Prior to the issuance of a cease and desist order, the Secretary shall provide notice and an opportunity for an informal hearing regarding the matter to the manufacturer or person involved.

(c) The notice shall contain the following information:

(1) That the issuance of a cease and desist order is being considered;

(2) That the reasons for the proposed cease and desist order in terms sufficient to put the person on notice of the conduct or lack thereof upon which the notice is based;

(3) That within 30 days after receipt of the notice, the manufacturer or person may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the proposed cease and desist order; and

(4) That if no response to the notice is received within the 30 days after receipt of the notice, that a cease and desist order may be issued immediately.

(d) If a manufacturer or person requests a hearing, the hearing should be held at a location and time that is convenient to the parties concerned, if possible. The hearing will be held before the Deputy Administrator, Dairy Programs, Agricultural Marketing Service, or a designee. The manufacturer or person may be represented. Witnesses may be called by either party.

(e) The Deputy Administrator, Dairy Programs, Agricultural Marketing Service, or a designee will make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the manufacturer or person. The decision of whether a cease and desist order should be issued shall be made within 30 days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the manufacturer or person. The cease and desist order shall be final unless the affected manufacturer or person requests a reconsideration of the order to the Administrator, Agricultural Marketing Service, within 30 days after the date of the issuance of the order.
