
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1205 - COTTON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart - Cotton Research and Promotion Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1205.335 Assessments.

(a) Each cotton producer or other person for whom cotton is being handled shall pay to the handler thereof designated by the Cotton Board pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary and such handler shall collect from the producer or other person for whom the cotton, including cotton owned by the handler, is being handled, and shall pay to the Cotton Board, at such times and in such manner as prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary, assessments as prescribed in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section:

(1) An assessment at the rate of $1 per bale of cotton handled;

(2) A supplemental assessment on cotton handled which shall not exceed one percent of the value of such cotton as determined by the Cotton Board and approved by the Secretary and published in the Cotton Board rules and regulations. The rate of the supplemental assessment may be increased or decreased by the Cotton Board with the approval of the Secretary. The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation whether the assessment rate shall be levied on:

(i) The current value of the cotton, or

(ii) An average value determined from current and/or historical cotton prices and converted to a fixed amount for each bale.

(b) Each importer of cotton shall pay to the Cotton Board through the U.S. Customs Service, or in such other manner and at such times as prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary, assessments as prescribed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) An assessment of $1 per bale of cotton imported or the bale equivalent thereof for cotton products.

(2) A supplemental assessment on each bale of cotton imported, or the bale equivalent thereof for cotton products, which shall not exceed one percent of the value of such cotton as determined by the Cotton Board and approved by the Secretary and published in the Cotton Board rules and regulations. The rate of the supplemental assessment on imported cotton shall be the same as that paid on cotton produced in the United States. The rate of the supplemental assessment may be increased or decreased by the Cotton Board with the approval of the Secretary. The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation the value of imported cotton based on an average of current and/or historical cotton prices.

(c) The Secretary may designate by regulation exemptions to assessments provided for in this section for the following:

(1) Entries of products designated by specific Harmonized Tariff Schedule numbers which the Secretary determines are composed of U.S. cotton or other than Upland cotton, and for;

(2) Cotton contained in entries of imported cotton and cotton products that is U.S. produced cotton or is other than Upland cotton.

(d) Assessments collected under this section are to be used for such expenses and expenditures, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Cotton Board and the Secretary under this subpart.
