
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1205 - COTTON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart - Cotton Board Rules and Regulations
###### Reimbursements
####### ยง 1205.520 Procedure for obtaining reimbursement.
######## Submission of reimbursement application to Cotton Board.

(b)Any importer requesting a reimbursement shall mail the application on the prescribed form to the Cotton Board. The application shall be postmarked within 180 days from the date the assessments were paid on the cotton by such importer. The reimbursement application shall show:

(1) The importer's name, address, phone number and Customs Service identification number;

(2) Weight of the cotton in each HTS category for which the reimbursement is requested;

(3) Subtotal amounts to be reimbursed for each HTS number and grand total to be reimbursed;

(4) Date or inclusive dates on which the assessments were paid;

(5) The name of the port of entry; and

(6) Certification by the importer that the cotton was grown in the U.S. or is other than Upland cotton.

(c) Where more than one importer shared in the assessment payment on cotton, joint or separate reimbursement application forms may be filed. In any such case, the reimbursement application shall show the names, addresses and proportionate shares of assessments paid by all importers. The reimbursement application shall bear the signature of each importer seeking reimbursement.
