
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1205 - COTTON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart - Cotton Board Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### ยง 1205.517 Failure to report and remit.

(a) Any collecting handler who fails to submit reports and remittances according to reporting periods and time schedules required in ยง 1205.516 shall be subject to appropriate action by the Cotton Board which may include one or more of the following actions:

(1) Audits of the collecting handler's books and records to determine the amount owed the Cotton Board;

(2) Requirement that an escrow account for the deposit of assessments collected be established. Frequency and schedule of deposits and withdrawals from the escrow account shall be determined by the Cotton Board with the Approval of the Secretary;

(3) Referral to the Secretary for appropriate enforcement action;

(4) Publication of a collecting handler's name in accordance with the following provisions:

(i) The name of any collecting handler will be subject to publication if the collecting handler:

(A) is sent two certified mail notices of past due assessments and/or collecting handler reports from the Cotton Board in any one marketing year (August 1-July 31), or

(B) is required by the Cotton Board to establish an escrow account for depositing assessments, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and does not comply with the deposit procedures established by the Cotton Board with approval of the Secretary.

(ii) The name of any collecting handler who is subject to publication will be published by the Cotton Board with the approval of the Secretary in a monthly listing during the primary cotton marketing season (September through March) and a bi-monthly listing during the remainder of the year. The published listing will be distributed by the Cotton Board.

(iii) The Cotton Board, with approval of the Secretary, may notify individual producers that the assessments collected by such producer's collecting handler, whose name is subject to publication in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, have not been remitted to the Cotton Board as required.

(b) Any importer who fails to submit reports to the Cotton Board pursuant to request made according to ยง 1205.516 or assessments to the Customs Service, shall be subject to one or more of the following actions:

(1) Audits of the importer's books and records to determine the amount owed the Cotton Board.

(2) A deduction for the amount of any unpaid assessment by the Customs Service from the importers surety bond.

(3) Referral to the Secretary for appropriate enforcement action.
