
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1206 - MANGO PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order Definitions
###### National Mango Board
####### ยง 1206.31 Nominations and appointments.

(a) Voting for first handler, importer, and domestic producer members will be made by mail ballot.

(b) There shall be two nominees for each position on the Board.

(c) Nominations for the initial Board will be handled by the Department. Subsequent nominations will be handled by the Board's staff.

(d) Nominees to fill the first handler member position on the Board shall be solicited from all known first handlers. The nominees shall be placed on a ballot which will be sent to all first handlers for a vote. The nominee receiving the highest number of votes and the nominee receiving the second highest number of votes shall be submitted to the Department as the first handlers' first and second choice nominees.

(e) Nominees to fill the mango importer positions on the Board shall be solicited from all known importers of mangos. The members from each district shall select the nominees for two positions on the Board. Two nominees shall be submitted for each position. The nominees shall be placed on a ballot which will be sent to mango importers in the districts for a vote. For each position, the nominee receiving the highest number of votes and the nominee receiving the second highest number of votes shall be submitted to the Department as the importers' first and second choice nominees.

(f) Nominees to fill the domestic producer member positions on the Board shall be solicited from all known domestic producers. The nominees shall be placed on a ballot which will be sent to all domestic producers for a vote. The nominee receiving the highest number of votes and the nominee receiving the second highest number of votes shall be submitted to the Department as the producers' first and second choice nominees.

(g) Nominees to fill the foreign producer member positions on the Board shall be solicited from organizations of foreign mango producers and from foreign mango producers. Organizations of foreign mango producers shall submit two nominees for each position, and foreign mango producers may submit their name or the names of other foreign mango producers directly to the Board. The nominees shall be representative of the major countries exporting mangos to the United States.

(h) From the nominations, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board.
