
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1206 - MANGO PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order Definitions
###### National Mango Board
####### ยง 1206.34 Procedure.

(a) At a Board meeting, it will be considered a quorum when at least one more than half of the voting members are present.

(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Board will select a chairperson and vice chairperson who will conduct meetings throughout that period.

(c) All Board members will be notified at least 30 days in advance of all Board and committee meetings unless an emergency meeting is declared.

(d) Each voting member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Board members present.

(e) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least one more than half of those assigned to the committee are present. Committees may consist of individuals other than Board members, and such individuals may vote in committee meetings. Committee members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board.

(f) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the members by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. In that event, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.

(g) There shall be no voting by proxy.

(h) The chairperson shall be a voting member and shall reside in the U.S.

(i) The organization of the Board and the procedures for conducting meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Department.
