
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1206 - MANGO PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order Definitions
###### Promotion, Research, and Information
####### ยง 1206.50 Programs, plans, and projects.

(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Department for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:

(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information, including producer and consumer information, with respect to mangos; and

(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to: the use, nutritional value and benefits, sale, distribution, and marketing of mangos in the United States; the creation of new products thereof, to the end that the marketing and use of mangos in the United States may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable; and to advance the image, desirability, or quality of mangos in the United States.

(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Department. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.

(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, or information. If it is found by the Board that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.

(d) No program, plan, or project including advertising shall be false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity. Mangos of all origins shall be treated equally.
