
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1206 - MANGO PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order Definitions
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1206.43 Exemptions.

(a) Any first handler or importer of less than 500,000 pounds of mangos per calendar year may claim an exemption from the assessments required under ยง 1206.42. Mangos produced domestically and exported from the United States may annually claim an exemption from the assessments required under ยง 1206.42.

(b) A first handler or importer desiring an exemption shall apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. A first handler must certify that it will receive less than 500,000 pounds of domestic mangos during the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed. An importer must certify that it will import less than 500,000 pounds of mangos for the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed.

(c) Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board then will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to each person who is eligible to receive one. It is the responsibility of these persons to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.

(d) Importers who receive a certificate of exemption shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs. These importers shall apply to the Board for reimbursement of any assessments paid. No interest will be paid on the assessments collected by Customs. Requests for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Board within 90 days of the last day of the calendar year the mangos were actually imported.

(e) Any person who desires an exemption from assessments for a subsequent calendar year shall reapply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption.

(f) The Board may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt mangos and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.
