
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 25 - RURAL EMPOWERMENT ZONES AND ENTERPRISE COMMUNITIES
#### Subpart C - Nomination Procedure
##### ยง 25.202 Strategic plan.
###### Principles of strategic plan.

(a)The strategic plan included in the application must be developed in accordance with the following four key principles:

(1) Strategic vision for change, which identifies what the community will become and a strategic map for revitalization. The vision should build on assets and coordinate a response to community needs in a comprehensive fashion. It should also set goals and performance benchmarks for measuring progress and establish a framework for evaluating and adjusting the revitalization plan.

(2) Community-based partnerships, involving the participation of all segments of the community, including the political and governmental leadership, community groups, local public health and social service departments and nonprofit groups providing similar services, environmental groups, local transportation planning entities, public and private schools, religious organizations, the private and nonprofit sectors, centers of learning, and other community institutions and individual citizens.

(3) Economic opportunity, including job creation within the community and throughout the region, entrepreneurial initiatives, small business expansion, job training and other important services such as affordable childcare and transportation services that may enable residents to be employed in jobs that offer upward mobility.

(4) Sustainable community development, to advance the creation of livable and vibrant communities through comprehensive approaches that coordinate economic, physical, environmental, community, and human development. These approaches should preserve the environment and historic landmarks-they may include "brownfields" clean-up and redevelopment, and promote transportation, education, and public safety.
