
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1207 - POTATO RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN
##### Subpart - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### ยง 1207.510 Levy of assessments.
######## Assessments on imports.

(b)(1) An Assessment rate of 3 cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all tablestock potatoes imported into the United States for ultimate consumption by humans and all seed potatoes imported into the United States. An assessment rate of 3 cents per hundredweight shall be levied on the fresh weight equivalents of imported frozen or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans. The importer of imported tablestock potatoes, potato products, or seed potatoes shall pay the assessment to the Board through the U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the time of entry or withdrawal for consumption of such potatoes and potato products into the United States.

(2) The following conversion factors shall be used to determine the fresh weight equivalents of frozen and processed potato products:

(3) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) categories and assessment rates on imported tablestock potatoes and frozen or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans and on imported seed potatoes are listed in the following table. In the event that any HTS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the description of the potatoes, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new numbers.

(4) No assessments shall be levied on otherwise assessable potatoes which are contained in imported products wherein potatoes are not a principal ingredient.

(c) Potatoes and potato products used for nonhuman food purposes, other than seed, are exempt from assessment but are subject to the disposition of exempted potatoes provisions of ยง 1207.515 of this subpart.

(d) No more than one such assessment shall be made on any potatoes or potato products.
