
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1207 - POTATO RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN
##### Subpart - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### ยง 1207.513 Payment of assessments.
######## Payment directly to the Board.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, each designated handler or importer shall remit assessments directly to the Board by check or electronic payment. Checks are to be made payable to the National Potato Promotion Board or the Board's official doing business as name. Payment is due not later than 10 days after the end of the month such assessment is due together with a report (preferably on Board forms) thereon.

(2) All designated handlers, including a designated handler whose own production is handled and assessments to the Board paid by another designated handler, shall report to the Board:

(i) Date of report (which is also date of payment to the Board).

(ii) The name and address of the designated handler;

(iii) The period potatoes were handled;

(iv) The total quantity of potatoes determined to be assessable during the period potatoes were handled, pursuant to ยง 1207.511.

(3) Designated handlers who collect assessments from producers or withhold assessments from their accounts or pay the assessment themselves shall also include a list of all such producers whose potatoes were handled during the period, their addresses and the total assessable quantities handled for each such producer.

(i) In lieu of such a list, the designated handler may substitute authentic copies of settlement sheets given to each producer provided such settlement sheets contain all the information listed above.

(ii) The words "final report" shall be shown on the last report at the close of his marketing season or at the end of each fiscal period if such handler markets potatoes on a year-round basis.

(4) Prepayment of assessment: (i) In lieu of the monthly assessment and reporting requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Board may permit designated handlers to make advance payments of their total estimated assessments for the season to the Board prior to their actual determination of assessable potatoes. Such procedure may be permitted when it is considered by the designated handler to be the more practical method of payment.

(ii) Persons using such procedure shall provide a final annual accounting of actual handling and assessments.

(iii) Specific requirements, instructions, and forms for making such advance payments shall be provided by the Board upon request.
