
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1207 - POTATO RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN
##### Subpart - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### ยง 1207.513 Payment of assessments.
######## Responsibility for payment.

(b)(1) The designated handler is responsible for payment of the assessment on domestically produced potatoes. He may pay with no reimbursement from the producer. In the alternative, he may collect the assessment from the producer, or deduct such assessment from the proceeds paid to the producer on whose potatoes the assessment is made, provided he furnishes the producer with evidence of such payment. Any such collection or deduction of assessment shall be made not later than the time when the assessment becomes payable by the handler to the Board. Failure of the handler to collect or deduct such assessment does not relieve the handler of his obligation to remit the assessment to the Board.

(2) The Customs Service shall collect payment of assessment on imported potatoes, potato products, and seed potatoes from importers and forward such assessment per agreement between the Customs Service and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Importers shall be responsible for payment of assessment directly to the Board of any assessment due but not collected by the Customs Service at the time of entry, or withdrawal, for consumption into the United States. An importer may apply to the Board for reimbursement of assessments paid on exempted products.
