
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1207 - POTATO RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN
##### Subpart - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### ยง 1207.512 Designated handler.

The assessment on each lot of potatoes produced in the 50 States of the United States and handled shall be paid by the designated handler as hereafter set forth.

(a) Unless otherwise provided in paragraphs (a)(8), (b), and (c) of this section, the designated handler shall be the first handler of such potatoes. The first handler is the person who initially performs a handler function as heretofore defined. Such person may be a fresh shipper, processor, or other person who first places the potatoes in the channels of commerce. A producer who grades, packs, or otherwise performs handler functions thereby becomes a handler and as such assumes first handler responsibilities under this part. The following examples are provided to aid in identification of first handlers who are designated handlers:

(1) Producer delivers field-run potatoes of his own production to a handler for preparation for market. The handler in this instance is the designated handler, regardless of whether he subsequently handles such potatoes for his own account or for the account of the producer.

(2) Producer delivers field-run potatoes of his own production to a handler who takes title to such potatoes and places them in storage for subsequent handling. The handler who purchases such potatoes from the producer is the designated handler.

(3) Producer delivers field-run potatoes to a commercial storage facility for the purpose of holding such potatoes under his own account for later sale. There is no designated handler in this instance since such potatoes have not been handled as heretofore defined and no assessment is due. The designated handler of such potatoes would be identified on the basis of subsequent handling of such potatoes.

(4) Fresh shipper purchases a lot of potatoes from a producer, packs a portion of such potatoes for fresh market, and delivers the balance to a processor. The fresh shipper is the designated handler for all potatoes in the lot.

(5) Handler purchases potatoes from a producer's field or storage for the purpose of preparing such potatoes for market or for transporting such potatoes to storage for subsequent handling. The handler who purchases such potatoes from the producer is the designated handler.

(6) Producer packs and sells potatoes of his own production from the field, roadside stand, or storage to a consumer, itinerant trucker, or other buyer. In performing such handler functions the producer assumes the responsibility of designated handler.

(7) Processor utilizes potatoes of his own production in the manufacture of potato chips, frozen, dehydrated, or canned products for human consumption. In so handling potatoes, the processor assumes the responsibility of designated handler.

(8) Producer utilizes potatoes of his own production for seed in planting his subsequent crop. Such seed potatoes do not enter the current of commerce; there is no designated handler in this instance since the potatoes have not been handled as heretofore defined and no assessment is due. However, seed potatoes sold or shipped to other producers for planting or to other persons for subsequent disposition enter the current of commerce and are subject to assessment. The producer of seed potatoes shall be the designated handler of such potatoes shipped to other producers for planting and the assessment is due when he first sells or otherwise handles such potatoes. The first person who acquires seed potatoes from the producer thereof for subsequent disposition other than planting by said person shall be the designated handler of such potatoes. However, the seed producer will be the designated handler responsible for filing reports and making payments, unless he can show that the first person who obtained the potatoes from him disposed of them other than by planting. To show this the seed producer must submit to the Potato Board the name and address of the first person who obtained the potatoes from him and an invoice of sale or settlement sheet on which it is indicated that such person will be the designated handler and therefore will be responsible for the payment of the assessments. Only by showing this is the seed producer no longer considered the designated handler and therefore not liable for the assessments.

(b) Any person who handles potatoes for a producer thereof under oral or written contract or agreement providing for the sale thereof shall be the designated handler for such potatoes, notwithstanding the fact that the producer may have graded, packed, or otherwise handled such potatoes and thereby became the first handler of such potatoes.

(c) Any processor who purchases potatoes from the producer thereof shall be the designated handler even though the producer may have graded, packed, or otherwise handled such potatoes and thereby became the first handler of such potatoes.
