
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1209 - MUSHROOM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Mushroom Council
####### ยง 1209.31 Nominations.

All nominations for appointments to the Council under ยง 1209.33 shall be made as follows:

(a) As soon as practicable after this subpart becomes effective, nominations for appointment to the initial Council shall be obtained from producers by the Secretary. In any subsequent year in which an appointment to the Council is to be made, nominations for positions whose terms will expire at the end of that year shall be obtained from producers, and as appropriate, importers, and certified by the Council and submitted to the Secretary by August 1 of such year, or such other date as approved by the Secretary.

(b) Nominations shall be made at regional caucuses of producers or importers, or by mail ballot as provided in paragraph (e), in accordance with procedures prescribed in this section.

(c) Except for initial Council members, whose nomination process will be initiated by the Secretary, the Council shall issue a call for nominations by February 1 of each year in which nominations for an appointment to the Council is to be made. The call shall include, at a minimum, the following information:

(1) A list by region of the vacancies for which nominees may be submitted and qualifications as to producers and importers.

(2) The date by which the names of nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration to be in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) A list of those States, by region, entitled to participate in the nomination process.

(4) The date, time, and location of any next scheduled meeting of the Council, and national and State producer or importer associations, if known, and of the regional caucuses, if any.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e), nominations for each position shall be made by regional caucus in the region entitled to nominate for such position. Notice of such caucus shall be publicized to all producers or importers within the region, and to the Secretary, at least 30 days prior to the caucus. The notice shall have attached to it the call for nominations from the Council and the Department's equal opportunity policy. Except with respect to nominations for the initial appointments to the Council, the responsibility for convening and publicizing the regional caucus shall be that of the Council.

(2) All producers or importers within the region may participate in the caucus. However, if a producer is engaged in the production of mushrooms in more than one region or is also an importer, such person's participation within a region shall be limited to one vote and shall only reflect the volume of such person's production or imports within the applicable region.

(3) The regional caucus shall conduct the selection process for the nominees in accordance with procedures to be adopted at the caucus subject to the following requirements:

(i) There shall be two individuals nominated for each open position.

(ii) Each nominee shall meet the qualifications set forth in the call.

(iii) If a producer nominee is engaged in the production of mushrooms in more than one region or is also an importer, such individual shall participate within the region that such individual so elects in writing to the Council and such election shall remain controlling until revoked in writing to the Council.

(e) After the regional caucuses for the initial Council, the Council may conduct the selection of nominees by mail ballot in lieu of a regional caucus.

(f) When producers or importers are voting for nominees to the Council, whether through a regional caucus or a mail ballot, the following conditions shall apply:

(1) Voting for any open position shall be on the basis of:

(i) One vote per eligible voter; and

(ii) Volume of on-average production or imports of the eligible voter within that region.

(2) Whenever the producers or importers in a region are choosing nominees for one open position on the Council, the proposed nominee with the highest number of votes cast and the proposed nominee with the highest volume of production or importers voted shall be the nominees submitted to the Secretary. If a proposed nominee receives both the highest number of votes cast and the highest volume of production or imports voted, then the proposed nominee with the second highest number of votes cast shall be a nominee submitted to the Secretary along with such proposed nominee receiving both the highest number of votes cast and the highest volume of production or imports voted.

(3) Whenever the producers or importers in a region are choosing nominees for more than one open position on the Council at the same time, the number of the nominations submitted to the Secretary shall equal twice the number of such open positions, and for each open position shall consist of the proposed nominee with the highest number of votes cast and the proposed nominee with the highest volume of production or imports voted with respect to that position, subject to the rule set out in paragraph (f)(2). An individual shall only be nominated for one such open position.

(4) Voters shall certify on their ballots as to their on-average production or import volume within the region involved. Such certification may be subject to verification.

(g)(1) The Secretary may reject any nominee submitted. If there are insufficient nominees from which to appoint members to the Council as a result of the Secretary's rejecting such nominees, additional nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary under the procedures set out in this section.

(2) Whenever producers or importers in a region cannot agree on nominees for an open position on the Council under the preceding provisions of this section, or whenever they fail to nominate individuals for appointment to the Council, the Secretary may appoint members in such manner as the Secretary, by regulation, determines appropriate.
