
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1209 - MUSHROOM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Mushroom Council
####### ยง 1209.35 Vacancies.

(a) To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Council, the Secretary may appoint a successor from the most recent nominations submitted for open positions on the Council assigned to the region that the vacant position represents, or the Secretary may obtain nominees to fill such vacancy in such manner as the Secretary, by regulation, deems appropriate. Each such successor appointment shall be for the remainder of the term vacated. A vacancy will not be required to be filled if the unexpired term is less than six months.

(b)(1) No successor appointed to a vacated term of office shall serve more than two successive three-year terms on the Council, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii).

(2)(i) Any successor serving longer than one year may serve one successive three-year term.

(ii) Any successor serving one year or less may serve two successive three-year terms.

(c) If a member of the Council consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Council, or if a member of the Council is known to be engaged in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Council may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds the recommendation of the Council shows adequate cause, the Secretary shall remove such member from office. Further, without recommendation of the Council, a member may be removed by the Secretary upon showing of adequate cause, including the failure by a member to submit reports or remit assessments required under this part, if the Secretary determines that such member's continued service would be detrimental to the achievement of the purposes of the Act.
