
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1209 - MUSHROOM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Mushroom Council
####### ยง 1209.34 Term of office.

(a) The members of the Council shall serve for terms of three years, except that the members appointed to the initial Council shall serve, proportionately, for terms of one, two, and three years.

(b) Members of the initial Council shall be designated for, and shall serve, terms as follows: One producer member each from regions 1, 2 and 3 shall be appointed for an initial term of one year; one producer member each from regions 1, 2, and 3 shall be appointed for an initial term of two years; and one producer member each from regions 2, 3, and 4 shall be appointed for an initial term of three years. Because current imports of fresh mushrooms are less than 35,000,000 pounds, the minimum established for representation on the Council, importers will not initially have a member appointed to the Council.

(c)(1) Except with respect to terms of office of the initial Council, the term of office for each member of the Council shall begin on January 1 or such other date that may be approved by the Secretary.

(2) The term of office for the initial Council shall begin immediately following appointment by the Secretary, except that time in the interim period from appointment until the following January 1, or such other date that is the generally applicable beginning date for terms under paragraph (c)(1) approved by the Secretary, shall not count toward the initial term of office.

(d) Council members shall serve during the term of office for which they are appointed and have qualified, and until their successors are appointed and have qualified.

(e)(1) No member shall serve more than two successive three-year terms, except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii).

(2)(i) Those members serving initial terms of two or three years may serve one successive three-year term.

(ii) Those members serving initial terms of one year may serve two successive three-year terms.
