
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1209 - MUSHROOM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Mushroom Council
####### ยง 1209.36 Procedure.

(a) At a properly convened meeting of the Council, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.

(b) Each member of the Council will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Council, and the motion will carry if supported by a simple majority of those voting. At assembled meetings of the Council, all votes will be cast in person.

(c) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Council such action is considered necessary, the Council may take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members by mail, telephone, telegraph, or any other means of communication, but any such action shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Council. All votes shall be recorded in Council minutes.

(d) Meetings of the Council may be conducted by electronic communications, provided that each member is given prior notice of the meeting and has an opportunity to be present either physically or by electronic connection.

(e) The organization of the Council and the procedures for conducting meetings of the Council shall be in accordance with its bylaws,which shall be established by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
