
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1209 - MUSHROOM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart B - Administrative Requirements
###### Nomination Procedures
####### ยง 1209.233 Regional caucus chairpersons.

(a) Regional caucus chairpersons shall be elected by a simple majority vote of eligible voters in attendance. Such elections shall be coordinated by the Council, except for the initial elections, which shall be coordinated by a representative of the Secretary.

(b) Regional caucus chairpersons will coordinate the entire nomination process. In conducting the nominations process, each regional caucus chairperson shall ensure that:

(1) Voting for producer nominees is limited to producers, and voting for importer nominees is limited to importers; and

(2) Producer candidates for nomination are producers, and importer candidates for nomination are importers.

(c) Within 14 days after completion of each regional caucus, each chairperson shall provide the Secretary with the following information:

(1) The identification of that region's two nominees for each open position on the Council; and

(2) A typed copy of the regional caucus's minutes.

(d) The chairperson of each regional caucus shall provide nominees with qualification statements and other specified information. Each nominee will be contacted by the chairperson and asked to forward such completed documentation to the Council within 14 days after completion of the regional caucus, except for the initial nominees, which shall be asked to forward such completed documentation to the Secretary.

(e) The tenure of the chairperson shall only be for the duration of the regional caucus and the preparation of required documentation.
