
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1209 - MUSHROOM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart C - Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### ยง 1209.303 Instructions.

The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner herein provided, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:

(a) Determine the time of commencement and termination of the period during which ballots may be cast.

(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. Ballot material shall provide for recording essential information including that needed for ascertaining:

(1) Whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter;

(2) The total volume of mushrooms produced by the voting producer during the representative period; and

(3) The total volume of mushrooms imported by the voting importer during the representative period.

(c) Give reasonable advance public notice of the referendum:

(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and

(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.

(d) Mail to eligible producers and importers, whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.

(e) Collect and safeguard ballots received by fax.

(f) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results.

(g) Prepare a report on the referendum.

(h) Prepare an announcement of the results for the public.
