
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1210 - WATERMELON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN
##### Subpart A - Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan
###### National Watermelon Promotion Board
####### ยง 1210.320 Establishment and membership.

(a) There is hereby established a National Watermelon Promotion Board, hereinafter called the "Board." The Board shall be composed of producers, handlers, importers, and one public representative appointed by the Secretary. An equal number of producer and handler representatives shall be nominated by producers and handlers pursuant to ยง 1210.321. The Board shall also include one or more representatives of importers, who shall be nominated in such manner as may be prescribed by the Secretary. The public representative shall be nominated by the Board members in such manner as may be prescribed by the Secretary. If producers, handlers, and importers fail to select nominees for appointment to the Board, the Secretary may appoint persons on the basis of representation as provided in ยง 1210.324. If the Board fails to adhere to procedures prescribed by the Secretary for nominating a public representative, the Secretary shall appoint such representative.

(b) Membership on the Board shall be determined on the basis of two handler and two producer representatives for each of seven districts in the contiguous States of the United States. Such districts as hereby established have approximately equal production volume according to the three-year average production as set forth in the USDA Crop Production Annual Summary Reports for 1979, 1980, and 1981. They are:

(c) After two years, the Board shall review the districts to determine whether realignment of the districts is necessary and at least every five years thereafter the Board shall make such a review. In making such review, it shall give consideration to:

(1) The most recent three years USDA production reports or Board assessment reports if USDA production reports are unavailable;

(2) Shifts and trends in quantities of watermelon produced, and

(3) Other relevant factors.

(d) Importer representation on the Board shall be proportionate to the percentage of assessments paid by importers to the Board, except that at least one representative of importers shall serve on the Board.

(e) Not later than 5 years after the date that importers are subject to the Plan, and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary shall evaluate the average annual percentage of assessments paid by importers during the 3-year period preceding the date of the evaluation and adjust, to the extent practicable, the number of importer representatives on the Board.

(f) The Board consists of 14 producers, 14 handlers, at least one importer, and one public member appointed by the Secretary.
