
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1210 - WATERMELON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN
##### Subpart C - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### ยง 1210.518 Payment of assessments.
######## Payment direct to the Board.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) and (e) of this section, each handler and importer shall remit the required producer and handler assessments, pursuant to ยง 1210.341 of the Plan, directly to the Board not later than 30 days after the end of the month such assessments are due. Remittance shall be by check, draft, or money order payable to the National Watermelon Promotion Board, or NWPB, and shall be accompanied by a report, preferably on Board forms, pursuant to ยง 1210.350. To avoid late payment charges, the assessments must be mailed to the Board and postmarked within 30 days after the end of the month such assessments are due.

(2) Pursuant to ยง 1210.350 of the Plan, each handler shall file with the Board a report for each month that assessable watermelons were handled. All handler reports shall contain at least the following information:

(i) The handler's name, address, and telephone number;

(ii) Date of report (which is also the date of payment to the Board);

(iii) Period covered by the report;

(iv) Total quantity of watermelons handled during the reporting period;

(v) Date of last report remitting assessments to the Board; and

(vi) Listing of all persons for whom the handler handled watermelons, their addresses, hundredweight handled, and total assessments remitted for each producer. In lieu of such a list, the handler may substitute copies of settlement sheets given to each person or computer generated reports, provided such settlement sheets or computer reports contain all the information listed above.

(vii) Name, address, and hundredweight handled for each person claiming exemption for assessment.

(viii) If the handler handled watermelons for persons engaged in the growing of less than 10 acres of watermelons, the report shall indicate the name and address of such person and the quantity of watermelons handled for such person.

(3) The words "final report" shall be shown on the last report at the close of the handler's marketing season or at the end of each fiscal period if such handler markets assessable watermelons on a year-round basis.
