
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1210 - WATERMELON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN
##### Subpart C - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### ยง 1210.518 Payment of assessments.
######## Prepayment of assessments.

(4)(i) In lieu of the monthly assessment and reporting requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Board may permit handlers to make an advance payment of their total estimated assessments for the crop year to the Board prior to their actual determination of assessable watermelons. The Board shall not be obligated to pay interest on any advance payment.

(ii) Handlers using such procedures shall provide a final annual report of actual handling and remit any unpaid assessments not later than 30 days after the end of the last month of the designated handler's marketing season or at the end of each fiscal period if such handler markets assessable watermelons on a year-round basis.

(iii) Handlers using such procedures shall, after filing a final annual report, receive a reimbursement of any overpayment of assessments.

(iv) Handlers using such procedures shall, at the request of the Board to verify a producer's refund claim, provide the Board with a handling report on any and all producers for whom the handler has provided handling services but has not yet filed a handling report with the Board.

(v) Specific requirements, instructions, and forms for making such advance payments shall be provided by the Board on request.
