
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1214 - CHRISTMAS TREE PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1214.53 Exemption from and refunds of assessments.
######## Producers that domestically produce and importers that import less than 500 Christmas trees.

(a)(1) Any producer who domestically produces less than 500 Christmas trees who desires to claim an exemption from assessments as provided in ยง 1214.52 shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. Such producer shall certify that he/she will domestically produce less than 500 trees for the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed. It is the responsibility of the producer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.

(2) Any importer who imports less than 500 trees in a fiscal period who desires to claim an exemption from assessments as provided in ยง 1214.52 shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. Such importer shall certify that the importer's total imports of Christmas trees are fewer than 500 trees for the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed. It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.

(3) On receipt of an exemption application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the producer or importer which is eligible to receive one.

(4) The Board, with the Secretary's approval, may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt Christmas trees and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.

(5) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the certificate of exemption.

(6) Producers and importers who received an exemption certificate from the Board but domestically produced or imported more than 500 Christmas trees during the fiscal period shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to ยง 1214.70.

(7) Producers and importers who did not apply to the Board for an exemption and domestically produced or imported less than 500 Christmas trees during the fiscal period shall receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year. Board staff shall determine the assessments paid and refund the amount due to the producers and importers accordingly.

(8) The Board may develop additional procedures as it deems necessary for accurately accounting for this exemption. Such procedures shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
