
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1215 - POPCORN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Popcorn Board
####### ยง 1215.22 Nominations and appointment.

(a) All nominations for appointments to the Board established under ยง 1215.21 shall be made as follows:

(1) As soon as practicable after the effective date of this subpart, nominations for appointment to the initial Board shall be obtained from processors by the Secretary. In any subsequent year in which an appointment to the Board is to be made, nominations for positions for which the term will expire at the end of that year shall be obtained from processors at least six months prior to the expiration of terms.

(2) Except for initial Board members, whose nomination process will be initiated by the Secretary, the Board shall issue a call for nominations in each year for which an appointment to the Board is to be made. The call shall include, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) A list of the vacancies for which nominees may be submitted and qualifications for nomination; and

(ii) The date by which the names of nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration to be in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(3)(i) Nominations for each position shall be made by processors. Notice shall be publicized to all processors.

(ii) All processors may participate in submitting nominations.

(4) Two nominees must be submitted for each vacancy. If processors fail to nominate a sufficient number of nominees, additional nominees shall be obtained in a manner prescribed by the Secretary.

(b) The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board from nominations made in accordance with paragraph (a).

(1) The Secretary may reject any nominee submitted. If there is an insufficient number of nominees from whom to appoint members to the Board as a result of the Secretary's rejecting such nominees, additional nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary in a manner prescribed by the Secretary.

(2) Whenever processors cannot agree on nominees for a position on the Board under the preceding provisions of this section, or whenever they fail to nominate individuals for appointment to the Board, the Secretary may appoint members in such a manner as the Secretary determines appropriate.

(3) If a processor nominates more than one officer or employee, only one may be appointed to the Board by the Secretary.
