
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1215 - POPCORN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1215.51 Assessments.

(a) Any processor marketing popcorn in the United States or for export shall pay an assessment on such popcorn at the time of introduction to market at a rate as established in ยง 1215.51(c) and shall remit such assessment to the Board in such form and manner as prescribed by the Board.

(b) Any person marketing popcorn of that person's own production to consumers in the United States either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets, shall remit to the Board an assessment on such popcorn at the rate set forth in paragraph ยง 1215.51(c), and in such form and manner as prescribed by the Board.

(c) Except as otherwise provided, the rate of assessment shall be 5 cents per hundredweight of popcorn. The rate of assessment may be raised or lowered as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary, but shall not exceed 8 cents per hundredweight in any fiscal year.

(d) The collection of assessments under this section shall commence on all popcorn processed in the United States on or after the date established by the Secretary, and shall continue until terminated by the Secretary. If the Board is not constituted on the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall have the authority to receive assessments on behalf of the Board and may hold such assessments until the Board is constituted, then remit such assessments to the Board.

(e) Each person responsible for remitting assessments under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall remit the amounts due from assessments to the Board on a quarterly basis no later than the last day of the month following the last month in the previous quarter in which the popcorn was marketed, in such manner as prescribed by the Board.

(f) The Board shall impose a late payment charge on any person who fails to remit to the Board the total amount for which the person is liable on or before the payment due date established under this section. The amount of the late payment charge shall be prescribed in rules and regulations as approved by the Secretary.

(g) The Board shall impose an additional charge on any person subject to a late payment charge, in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the person is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed in rules and regulations as approved by the Secretary.

(h) In addition, persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to penalties and actions under federal debt collection procedures as set forth in 7 CFR 3.1 through 3.36.

(i) Any assessment that is determined to be owing at a date later than the payment due established under this section, due to a person's failure to submit a report to the Board by the payment due date, shall be considered to have been payable on the payment due date. Under such a situation, paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section shall be applicable.

(j) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may enter into agreements authorizing other organizations or entities to collect assessments on its behalf. Any such organization or entity shall be required to maintain the confidentiality of such information as is required by the Board for collection purposes. Any reimbursement by the Board for such services shall be based on reasonable charges for services rendered.

(k) The Board is hereby authorized to accept advance payment of assessments for the fiscal year by any person, that shall be credited toward any amount for which such person may become liable. The Board shall not be obligated to pay interest on any advance payment.
