
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1215 - POPCORN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Promotion, Research, Consumer Information, and Industry Information
####### ยง 1215.40 Programs, plans, and projects.

(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans or projects shall provide for:

(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information with respect to popcorn; and

(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the sale, distribution, marketing, and use of popcorn, and the creation of new uses thereof, to the end that the marketing and use of popcorn may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable.

(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board may take appropriate steps to implement it.

(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information. If it is found by the Board that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.

(d) In carrying out any program, plan, or project, no reference to a brand name, trade name, or State or regional identification of any popcorn will be made. In addition, no program, plan, or project shall make use of unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value, or use of any competing product.
