
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1216 - PEANUT PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### National Peanut Board
####### ยง 1216.41 Nominations.

(a) All nominations authorized under ยง 1216.40 shall be made within such a period of time as the Secretary shall prescribe. Eligible peanut producer organizations within each state as certified pursuant to ยง 1216.70 shall nominate two qualified persons for each member and each alternate member. The nominees shall be elected at an open meeting among peanut producers eligible to serve on the Board. Any certified peanut producer organization representing a minor peanut-producing state may nominate two eligible persons for each member and two eligible persons for each alternate member.

(b) As soon as practicable after this subpart becomes effective, the Secretary shall obtain nominations for appointment to the initial promotion Board from certified nominating organizations. In any subsequent year in which an appointment to the Board is to be made, nominations for positions whose terms will expire shall be obtained from certified nominating organizations by the Board's staff and submitted to the Secretary by May 1 of such year, or other such date as approved by the Secretary.

(c) Except for initial Board members, whose nomination process will be initiated by the Secretary, the Board shall issue the call for nominations by March 1 of each year.

(d) The nomination meeting shall be announced 30 days in advance:

(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and

(2) By such other means as deemed advisable.

(e) At nominations meetings, Department personnel will be present to oversee and to verify eligibility and count ballots.
