
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1216 - PEANUT PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### National Peanut Board
####### ยง 1216.46 Procedure.

(a) A majority of the members of the Board, including alternate members acting for members, shall constitute a quorum.

(b) At assembled meetings, all votes shall be cast in person. Board actions shall be weighted by value of production as determined by a primary peanut-producing state's three-year running average of total gross farm income derived from all peanut sales. The at-large Board member's vote shall be weighted by the collective value of production from all minor peanut-producing states' three-year running average of total gross farm income derived from all peanut sales. Any Board action shall require the concurring votes of members or alternates from states representing more than 50 percent of total U.S. gross farm income derived from all peanut sales, plus an additional two votes from any other Board members, provided a minimum of five votes concur.

(c) For routine and noncontroversial matters which do not require deliberation and the exchange of views, and in matters of an emergency nature when there is not time to call an assembled meeting of the Board, the Board may also take action as prescribed in this section by mail, facsimile, telephone, or any telecommunication method appropriate for the conduct of business, but any such action shall be confirmed in writing within 30 days.

(d) There shall be no voting by proxy.

(e) The chairperson shall be a voting member.
