
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1218 - BLUEBERRY PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council
####### ยง 1218.45 Procedure.

(a) At a Council meeting, it will be considered a quorum when a minimum of 11 members, or their alternates serving in their absence, are present.

(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Council will select a chairperson and vice chairperson who will conduct meetings throughout that period.

(c) All Council members and alternates will receive a minimum of 10 days advance notice of all Council and committee meetings.

(d) Each member of the Council will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Council, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Council members present.

(e) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least one more than half of those assigned to the committee are present. Alternates may also be assigned to committees as necessary. Committees may also consist of individuals other than Council members and such individuals may vote in committee meetings. These committee members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Council.

(f) All votes at meetings of the Council and committees may be cast in person or by electronic voting or other means as the Council and Secretary deem appropriate to allow members participating by telephone or other electronic means to cast votes.

(g) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Council such action is considered necessary, the Council may take action if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the members by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication, and all telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Council. All votes shall be recorded in Council minutes.

(h) There shall be no voting by proxy.

(i) The chairperson shall be a voting member.

(j) The organization of the Council and the procedures for the conducting of meetings of the Council shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
