
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1220 - SOYBEAN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Soybean Promotion and Research Order
###### United Soybean Board
####### ยง 1220.209 Procedure.

(a) At a properly convened meeting of the Board, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.

(b)(1) Except for roll call votes, each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board and the motion will carry if supported by a simple majority of those voting.

(2)(i) If a member requests a roll call vote, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, each unit as established under ยง 1220.201, shall cast one vote for each percent, or portion of a percent, of the average total amount of assessments remitted to the Board that was remitted from the unit (minus refunds) during each of the three previous fiscal years of the Board under ยง 1220.223.

(ii)(A) During the first fiscal year of the Board, the percentage used to determine the votes given to a unit will be based on annual average soybean production of the three previous years. If a unit is represented by more than one member, each member representing the unit shall receive an equal percentage of the votes allocated to the unit.

(B) During the second and third year this subpart is in effect, the percentage used to determine the votes given to a unit will be based upon averaging the unit's percentage of annual assessments remitted to the Board (minus refunds).

(iii) Should a member representing a unit not be present, then the other members representing such unit shall vote, on an equal basis if there is more than one member representing the unit present, the number of votes which the absent member would have been entitled to vote.

(iv) A motion will carry on a roll call vote if approved by both a simple majority of all votes cast and a simple majority of all units voting (with the vote of each unit determined by a simple majority of all votes cast by members in that unit).

(3) A member may not cast votes by proxy.

(c) In lieu of a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members, or if a roll call vote is requested, a simple majority of all votes cast and a simple majority of all units voting by mail, telephone, facsimile, or telegraph, but any such action by telephone shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In the event that such action is taken, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a regular or special meeting of the Board.

(d) On or after the end of the three-year period beginning on the effective date of this subpart, the Board may recommend to the Secretary changes in the voting procedures of the Board described in paragraph (b) of this section.
