
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1220 - SOYBEAN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments
####### § 1220.311 Collection and remittance of assessments.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each first purchaser making payment to a producer for soybeans marketed by a producer shall collect from that producer at the time of settlement of that producer's account an assessment at the rate of 0.5 percent of the net market price per bushel of soybeans marketed and shall be responsible for remitting the assessment to the Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board as provided in § 1220.312. The first purchaser shall give to the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment. The receipt shall be any document issued by the first purchaser that contains the information requested in § 1220.314(a).

(b) A first purchaser who purchases soybeans pursuant to a contract with a producer, either on a volume basis or on a per acre basis, shall be responsible for remitting the assessment due on soybeans purchased as required in § 1220.312. Such assessment shall be based upon 0.5 percent of the net market price specified or established in the contract and shall be collected at the time of payment to the producer. If the net market price is not specified or established in the contract the assessment shall be based on fair market value as specified in paragraph (c) of this section below.

(c) Any producer marketing processed soybeans or soybean products of that producer's own production either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets shall be responsible for remitting to the Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board pursuant to § 1220.312, an assessment on the number of bushels of soybeans processed or manufactured into soybean products at the rate 0.5 percent of the net market price of the soybeans involved or the equivalent thereof. The assessment shall attach upon date of sale of the processed soybeans or soybean products and shall be based upon the posted county price for soybeans on the date of the sale as posted at the local ASCS office for the county in which the soybeans are grown. The producer shall remit the assessment in the manner provided in § 1220.312.

(d) Any producer marketing processed soybeans or soybean products of that producer's own production shall be responsible for remitting to the Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board pursuant to § 1220.312, an assessment on the number of bushels of soybeans processed or manufactured into soybean products at the rate of 0.5 percent of the net market price of the soybeans involved or the equivalent thereof. The assessment shall attach upon the date of final settlement for such processed soybeans or soybean products and shall be based upon the posted county price for soybeans on the date of final settlement as posted at the local ASCS office for the county in which the soybeans are grown. The producer shall remit the assessment in the manner provided in § 1220.312.

(e) A producer delivering soybeans of the producer's own production against a soybean futures contract shall be responsible for remitting an assessment at the rate of 0.5 percent of net market price as specified in settlement documents. The assessment shall attach at the time of delivery and the producer shall remit the assessment due in accordance with § 1220.312.

(f) A producer who forfeits soybeans of that producer's own production which were pledged as collateral on a loan issued by Commodity Credit Corporation shall pay an assessment. The assessment shall attach upon the date the settlement statement is prepared and issued to the producer by the Commodity Credit Corporation and shall be 0.5 percent of the principal amount of the loan for the soybeans as specified by Commodity Credit Corporation in the settlement statement. The Commodity Credit Corporation shall collect the assessment and then remit the assessment due in accordance with § 1220.312.
