
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1221 - SORGHUM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Board
####### ยง 1221.100 Establishment and representation.

There is hereby established a Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Board, hereinafter called the Board. Representation includes, but is not limited to, fixed State seats determined by total production with at-large seats to allow representation from a broad geographical area. The Board shall initially be composed of 13 representatives, with the maximum number of producers from one State limited to 6, appointed by the Secretary from nominations as follows:

(a) The largest production State based on total production shall have 5 sorghum producers to serve as representatives.

(b) The second largest production State based on total production shall have 3 sorghum producers to serve as representatives.

(c) The third largest production State based on total production shall have one sorghum producer to serve as a representative.

(d) There shall be 4 sorghum producers to serve as at-large national representatives with at least two representatives appointed from States not described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.

(e) If the value of assessments on imported sorghum reaches or exceeds the production of the third largest sorghum production State, there shall be one importer to serve as a representative plus an additional at-large national representative, with the maximum number of producers from one State being increased from six to seven.

(f) At least once every 5 years, the Board will review the geographical distribution of production of sorghum in the United States, the production of sorghum in the United States, and the value of assessments on sorghum imported into the United States. The review will be based on Board assessment records and statistics from the USDA. If warranted, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that representation on the Board be altered to reflect any changes in geographical distribution of domestic sorghum production. If, in the review, the Board determines that the value of assessments on sorghum imported into the United States exceeds 15 percent of the production of sorghum, the Board shall recommend to the Secretary that the nomination procedures and appointments to the Board be altered as necessary or appropriate to facilitate the equitable representation of importers on the Board.
