
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1221 - SORGHUM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Board
####### ยง 1221.104 Term of office.

(a) The term of office for the representatives of the Board shall be three years, except for the initial term, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Representatives may serve a maximum of 2 consecutive 3-year terms.

(c) When the Board is first established, the Secretary shall establish staggered terms as follows:

(1) Largest Production State-2 representatives shall serve a 2-year term, 1 representative shall serve a 3-year term, and 2 representatives shall serve a 4-year term.

(2) Second Largest Production State-1 representative shall serve a 2-year term, 1 representative shall serve a 3-year term, and 1 representative shall serve a 4-year term.

(3) Third Largest Production State-The representative shall serve a 3-year term.

(4) At-large national-1 representative shall serve a 2-year term, 2 representatives shall serve a 3-year term, and 1 representative shall serve a 4-year term.

(5) States with multiple representatives shall have their staggered terms assigned by the Secretary. At-large national representatives shall also have their staggered terms assigned by the Secretary.

(6) Representatives serving initial terms of 2 or 4 years shall be eligible to serve a single term of 3 years after their initial 2- or 4-year term.

(d) Each representative shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the Secretary and has accepted the position.

(e) Any successor appointed pursuant to ยง 1221.105 serving 1 year or less may serve two consecutive 3-year terms.
