
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1221 - SORGHUM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### Miscellaneous
####### ยง 1221.130 Referenda.

(a) For the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons subject to this part favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of this part, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among persons subject to assessments under ยง 1221.116 who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have engaged in the production or importation of sorghum.

(1) The referendum shall be conducted not later than 3 years after assessments first begin under this part.

(2) This part will be approved in a referendum if a majority of those persons voting vote for approval.

(b) The Secretary shall conduct a subsequent referendum:

(1) Not later than 7 years after assessments first begin under this part;

(2) At the request of the Board; or

(3) At the request of 10 percent or more of the sorghum producers and importers eligible to vote to determine if the persons favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of this part.

(c) The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time to determine whether the continuation, suspension or termination of this part or a provision of this part is favored by sorghum producers and importers eligible to vote.

(d) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for any expenses incurred by the Secretary to conduct referenda.

(e) A referendum conducted under this section with respect to this part shall be conducted in the manner determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.
