
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1222 - PAPER AND PAPER-BASED PACKAGING PROMOTION, RESEARCH AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1222.53 Exemption from assessment.
######## Minimum quantity exemption.

(a)(1) Manufacturers that manufacture less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year are exempt from paying assessments. Such manufacturers must apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the marketing year. This is an annual exemption and manufacturers must reapply each year. Such manufacturers shall certify that they will manufacture less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board may request past manufacturing data to support the exemption request. The Board will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible manufacturer. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.

(2) Importers that import into the United States less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year are exempt from paying assessments. This is an annual exemption and importers must qualify each year.

(i) Importers that imported less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year shall automatically be considered exempt during the upcoming marketing year. Customs data will be reviewed to verify applicable importers.

(ii) Importers that imported more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year, but believe and can document that they will import less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the upcoming marketing year, may apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the fiscal year. Such importers shall certify that they will import less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board may request past import data and other documentation to support the exemption request. The Board will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible importer. It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.

(iii) The Board shall refund such importers considered exempt their assessments as collected by Customs no later than 60 calendar days after receipt of such assessments by the Board. The Board will stop refund of assessments to such importers who during the marketing year import more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper based packaging. These importers will be notified accordingly. No interest shall be paid on the assessments collected by Customs or the Board.

(3) Manufacturers that did not apply to the Board for an exemption and that manufactured less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall automatically receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year. Board staff shall determine the assessments paid and refund the amount due to the manufacturer accordingly.

(4) Importers that did not apply to the Board for an exemption, imported more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year, and that imported less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall automatically receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year.

(5) If an entity is a manufacturer and an importer, such entity's combined quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured and imported during a marketing year shall count towards the 100,000 short ton-exemption.

(6) Manufacturers and importers that received an exemption certificate or an automatic exemption from the Board but manufactured or imported 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed on the quantity manufactured or imported within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to ยง 1222.70.

(7) The Board may develop additional procedures to administer this exemption as appropriate. Such procedures shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
