
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1223 - PECAN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### American Pecan Promotion Board
####### ยง 1223.41 Nominations and appointments.

(a) Initial nominations for producers will be submitted to the Secretary by the American Pecan Council (APC), or the Department if appropriate. Before considering any nominations, the APC shall publicize the nomination process, using trade press or other means it deems appropriate, to reach out to all known producers for the U.S. market. The APC may use regional caucuses, mail or other methods to elicit potential nominees. The APC shall submit the nominations to the Secretary and recommend two nominees for each Board position specified in paragraph (a)(1) of ยง 1223.40. The Department will conduct initial nominations for the importer members. The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board.

(b) Subsequent nominations shall be conducted as follows:

(1) Nomination of producer members will be conducted by the Board. The Board staff will seek nominations for each vacant producer seat from each region from producers who have paid their assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period and who produced more than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which nominations are being conducted and the previous three fiscal periods). Producers who produce pecans in more than one region may seek nomination only in the region in which they produce the majority of their pecans. Nominations will be submitted to the Board office and placed on a ballot that will be sent to producers in each region for a vote. Producers may only vote in the region in which they produce the majority of their pecans. The votes shall be tabulated for each region with the nominee receiving the highest number of votes at the top of the list in descending order by vote. Two candidates for each position shall be submitted to the Secretary; and

(2) Nomination of importer members will be conducted by the Board. All qualified national organizations representing importer interests will have the opportunity to nominate members to serve on the Board. If the Secretary determines that there are no qualified national organizations representing importer interests, individual importers who have paid assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period and imported more than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which nominations are being conducted and the previous three fiscal periods) may submit nominations. The names of importer nominees shall be placed on a ballot and mailed to importers for a vote. The votes shall be tabulated with the nominee receiving the highest number of votes at the top of the list in descending order by vote. Two candidates for each importer Board position shall be submitted to the Secretary. To be certified by the Secretary as a qualified national organization representing importer interests, an organization must meet the following criteria, as evidenced by a report submitted by the organization to the Secretary:

(i) The organization's voting membership must be comprised primarily of importers of pecans;

(ii) The organization has a history of stability and permanency and has been in existence for more than one year;

(iii) The organization must derive a portion of its operating funds from importers;

(iv) The organization must demonstrate it is willing and able to further the Act and Order's purposes; and

(v) To be certified by the Secretary as a qualified national organization representing importer interests, an organization must agree to take reasonable steps to publicize to non-members the availability of open Board importer positions.

(c) Producer and importer nominees may provide the Board a short background statement outlining their qualifications to serve on the Board.

(d) Nominees must be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart.

(e) The Board must submit nominations to the Secretary at least six months before the new Board term begins. The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board.

(f) No two members shall be employed by a single corporation, company, partnership, or any other legal entity.

(g) The Board may recommend to the Secretary modifications to its nomination procedures as it deems appropriate. Any such modifications shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
