
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1223 - PECAN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### American Pecan Promotion Board
####### ยง 1223.44 Procedure.

(a) At a Board meeting, it will be considered a quorum when a majority of members are present.

(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Board will select a chairperson and vice chairperson who will conduct meetings and appoint committee membership throughout that period.

(c) All Board and committee members will receive a minimum of 10 days advance notice of all Board and committee meetings, unless an emergency meeting is declared by the Chairperson.

(d) Each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Board members present.

(e) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least one more than half of those assigned to the committee are present. Committees may also consist of individuals other than Board members and such individuals may vote in committee meetings. These committee members shall be appointed by the Chairperson and shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board.

(f) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the Chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the members by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication, and all telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members and the Secretary must be notified, and all members must be provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.

(g) There shall be no voting by proxy.

(h) The Chairperson shall be a voting member.

(i) The organization of the Board and the procedures for the conducting of meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
