
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1223 - PECAN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
##### Subpart A - Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1223.53 Exemption procedures.
######## De minimis.

(a)An exemption from payment of assessments as provided in ยง 1223.52, shall be provided to producers that domestically produce and importers that import less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods) as follows:

(1) Any producer who desires to claim an exemption from assessments shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption for each fiscal period claiming an exemption. Such producer shall certify that it will domestically produce less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods). It is the responsibility of the producer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.

(2) Any importer who desires to claim an exemption from assessments shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption for each fiscal period claiming an exemption. Such importer shall certify that it will import less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods). It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.

(3) On receipt of an exemption application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted for that fiscal period. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the producer or importer which is eligible to receive one covering that fiscal period. The Board may request persons applying for the exemption to provide supporting documentation, such as past sales receipts or import data.

(4) The Board, with the Secretary's approval, may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt pecans and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.

(5) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the certificate of exemption.

(6) Producers and importers who received an exemption certificate from the Board but domestically produced or imported more than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 shelled of pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods) during the fiscal period shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to ยง 1223.60.
