
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1230 - PORK PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### National Pork Board
####### ยง 1230.56 Procedure.

(a) A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum at a properly convened meeting of the Board. Any action of the Board shall require the concurring votes of at least a majority of those present and voting. The Board shall give timely notice of its meetings. The Board shall give the Secretary the same notice of its meetings, including the meetings of its committees, as it gives to its members in order that the Secretary, or a representative of the Secretary, may attend the meetings.

(b) The Board may take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members by mail, telephone, telegraph or by other means of communication when, in the opinion of the President of the Board, such action must be taken before a meeting can be called. Action taken by this emergency procedure is valid only if all members are notified and provided the opportunity to vote and any telephone vote is confirmed promptly in writing and recorded in the Board minutes. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board.
