
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1230 - PORK PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
###### Expenses and Assessments
####### ยง 1230.71 Assessments.

(a)(1) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised as a feeder pig that is sold shall pay an assessment on that animal, unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid on that animal as a feeder pig.

(2) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised for slaughter that is sold shall pay an assessment on that animal, unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid on that animal as a market hog.

(3) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised for slaughter that such producer slaughters for sale shall pay an assessment on that animal unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid on that animal as a market hog.

(4) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised for breeding stock that is sold shall pay an assessment on that animal, unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid by a person on that animal as breeding stock.

(5) Each importer importing a porcine animal, pork, or pork product into the United States shall pay an assessment on that porcine animal, pork, or pork product, unless such importer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid for that porcine animal, pork, or pork product.

(b)(1) Each purchaser of a porcine animal raised by a producer as a feeder pig or market hog shall collect an assessment on such porcine animal if an assessment is due pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and shall remit that assessment to the Board. For the purposes of collection and remittance of assessments, any person engaged as a commission merchant, auction market, or livestock market in the business of receiving such porcine animals for sale on commission for or on behalf of a producer shall be deemed to be a purchaser.

(2) Assessments on porcine animals raised as breeding stock which are sold by a commission merchant, auction, market, or livestock market in the business of receiving such porcine animals for sale on commission for or on behalf of a producer shall be collected and remitted by the commission merchant, auction market, or livestock market selling such porcine animals.

(3) Each producer of porcine animals slaughtered for sale by the producer or sold directly to a consumer in connection with a custom slaughter operation shall remit an assessment to the Board if an assessment is due pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) Assessments on domestic porcine animals shall be remitted in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable to the "National Pork Board," which, together with the reports required by ยง 1230.80, shall be sent to the address designated by the Board.

(5) Each importer of a porcine animal, pork, or pork product shall remit an assessment to the Customs Service at the time such porcine animal, pork, or pork product is imported or in such manner as may be established by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary, if an assessment is due pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The initial rate of assessment shall be 0.25 percent of market value.

(d) The rate of assessment may, upon the recommendation of the Delegate Body, be increased by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary by no more than 0.1 percent of such market value per fiscal period to a total of not more than 0.5 percent of market value.

(e) Assessments on imported pork and pork products shall be expressed in an amount per pound for each type of pork or pork product subject to assessment, which shall be established by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
