
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1230 - PORK PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Procedures for the Conduct of Referendum
###### Referendum
####### ยง 1230.626 Facilities for registering and voting.

(a) Producers. Each county FSA office shall provide:

(1) Adequate facilities and space to permit producers of hogs and pigs to register and to mark their ballots in secret;

(2) A sealed box or other designated receptacle for registration forms and ballots that is kept under observation during office hours and secured at all times; and

(3) Copies of the Order for review.

(b) Absentee ballots. Each FSA county office shall provide each producer an absentee ballot package upon request. Producers can pick up an absentee ballot in-person or request it by telephone, mail, or facsimile. The FSA county office will provide absentee ballots by mail for all requests received by telephone, mail, or facsimile. The FSA county office shall record date of receipt of the "Pork Referendum" envelope containing the completed absentee ballot on the Absentee Voter Request List and place it unopened in a secure ballot box.

(c) Importers. The FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, will:

(1) Mail ballot packages to eligible importers upon request;

(2) Have a sealed box or other designated receptacle for registration forms and ballots that is kept under observation during office hours and secured at all times; and

(3) Mail copies of the Order to importers if requested by mail, telephone, or facsimile. Importers can also pickup a ballot in-person.
