
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1230 - PORK PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION
##### Subpart E - Procedures for the Conduct of Referendum
###### Referendum
####### ยง 1230.633 Canvassing ballots.
######## Importers,Counting the ballots.

(b)-(1)FSA headquarters personnel, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, will check the registration forms and ballots for all importer voters against the Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77) to determine properly registered voters. The ballots of importers voting whose names are not recorded on the Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77), will be declared invalid. All ballots of importer voters declared invalid will be kept separate from the other ballots and the envelopes containing these ballots will not be opened. The valid ballots will be counted on November 29, 2000, during regular office hours on the 46th business day after the date of the last day of the in-person voting period. FSA headquarter office employees will remove the sealed "Pork Ballot" envelope (Form LS-72-1) from the "Pork Referendum" envelopes (Form LS-73-1) of all eligible importer voters. After removing all "Pork Ballot" envelopes, FSA headquarter employees will shuffle the sealed "Pork Ballot" envelopes or otherwise mix them up so that ballots cannot be matched with importers' names. After shuffling the "Pork Ballot" envelopes, FSA headquarters employees will open the envelopes and count the ballots. The ballots will be counted as follows:

(i) Number of eligible importers casting valid ballots;

(ii) Number of importers favoring continuation of the Pork Checkoff Program;

(iii) Number of importers favoring termination of the Pork Checkoff Program;

(iv) Number of importer ballots deemed invalid; and

(v) Number of spoiled ballots.
