
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XI - Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1250 - EGG RESEARCH AND PROMOTION
##### Subpart - Rules and Regulations
###### Assessments, Collections, and Remittances
####### § 1250.517 Remittance to Egg Board.

(a) The collecting handler responsible for remittance of assessments to the Board is not relieved of this obligation as a result of his failure to collect payment of the assessment from the egg producer(s).

(b) Each collecting handler required to remit the assessments on the eggs handled during each reporting period, specified in § 1250.515(a), shall remit the assessments directly to the Egg Board by check, draft, or money order payable to the Egg Board on or before the 15th day after the end of said reporting period together with a report pursuant to § 1250.529. The assessment for each reporting period shall be calculated on the basis of the gross volume of eggs subject to assessment received by the collecting handler during each reporting period.

(c) Remittance through cooperating agency.

(1) In any State or specified geographic area the Egg Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may designate by agreement a cooperating agency to collect the assessments in its behalf. Every collecting handler within such a State or geographic area shall remit the assessments for each reporting period, specified in § 1250.515(a), to the designated cooperating agency by check, draft, or money order payable to said cooperating agency on or before the 15th day after the end of said reporting period together with a report pursuant to § 1250.529.

(2) On or before the 20th day after the end of each reporting period, each designated cooperating agency shall remit to the Egg Board the total amount of all assessments received from collecting handlers for said reporting period together with all collecting handler reports. In addition, each designated cooperating agency shall submit to the Egg Board such information as is required by the designation agreement with the Egg Board.
