
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 27 - COTTON CLASSIFICATION UNDER COTTON FUTURES LEGISLATION
###### Subpart A - Requirements
####### Price Quotations and Differences
######## ยง 27.97 Ascertaining the accuracy of price quotations.

The buyers and sellers of cotton in each spot market shall be responsible for providing accurate and timely price, quality, and volume of purchases data by growth area to the Cotton Division. The Cotton Division is responsible for ascertaining the accuracy of the price quotations in each designated spot market. The Cotton Division will carry out this responsibility by performing the following duties and functions:

(a) The Cotton Division will collect and analyze pertinent information on the prices and values of spot cotton from each spot market.

(b) In the process of determining price quotations, the Cotton Division will contact a minimum of three buyers and sellers of cotton in each bona fide market at least two times per week during the active trading season and one time per week during the remainder of the year to obtain information on prices, qualities, volume, and terms of sales in sufficient detail to determine quotations.

(c) The Cotton Division will summarize the price and quality data and, based on analysis of this summary, make determinations regarding quotations of price, value and differences.

(d) Quotations for each spot market shall be reviewed and approved by the Cotton Division's Market News Branch Chief or Assistant Branch Chief prior to publication.

(e) The Cotton Division will publish the appropriate quotations by bale volume for grades, staple lengths, micronaire determinations, and other quality factors for each spot market on a daily basis.
