
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1410 - CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
###### § 1410.40 Cost-share payments.

(a) Cost-share payments will be made available to the participant if an eligible practice, or an identifiable unit thereof, including fencing and water distribution, has been installed in compliance with the appropriate standards and specifications. Cost-share payments are not subject to the provisions of § 1410.42(d).

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, cost-share payments will not be made to the same owner or operator on the same acreage for any eligible practices that have been previously established, or for which such owner or operator has received cost-share assistance from any other Federal agency.

(c) Cost-share payments may be authorized for the replacement or restoration of practices for which cost-share payments have been previously allowed under CRP, only if:

(1) Replacement or restoration of the practice is needed to achieve adequate erosion control, enhance water quality, wildlife habitat, or increase protection of public wellheads, or other conservation measures approved by CCC;

(2) The failure of the original practice was due to reasons beyond the control of the participant; and

(3) The benefits that would be received from the replacement or restoration of the practice outweighs the cost of replacing or restoring the practice.

(d) Limitations on cost-share payments include:

(1) The cost-share payment made to a participant will not exceed the participant's actual contribution to the eligible costs of establishing the practice.

(2) The amount of the cost-share payments, including practice incentive payments, may not be an amount that, when added to such assistance from other sources, exceeds 100 percent of the actual cost of establishing the practice.

(e) CCC will not make cost-share payments with respect to a CRP contract if any other Federal cost-share assistance has been, or is being, made with respect to the land subject to such CRP contract. Participants must refund to CCC all cost-share payments received under this part if other Federal cost-share assistance is received with respect to the same land.

(f) CCC may make cost-share payments for thinning of existing tree stands to benefit wildlife habitat and other resource conditions on enrolled land.

(g) In addition to cost-share payments, a practice incentive payment will be made available to a participant to whom CCC has made a cost-share payment after a determination that an eligible practice has been installed in compliance with the appropriate standards and specifications. The practice incentive payment will be considered a cost-share payment for purposes of this part, and is not subject to the provisions of § 1410.42(d). A practice incentive payment will be provided only for land enrolled under:

(1) Continuous sign-up as provided in § 1410.30(b); or

(2) The Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program as provided in § 1410.90.
