
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1410 - CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1410.41 Levels and rates for cost-share payments.

(a) CCC will not pay more than 50 percent of either the actual or average cost of installing eligible practices specified in the conservation plan.

(b) The average cost of performing a practice may be based on recommendations from the State Technical Committee. Such cost may be the average cost in a State, a county, or a part of a State or county.

(c) If there is any other sources of cost-share assistance:

(1) A participant may, in addition to any payment under this part, receive cost-share assistance, rental or easement payments, tax benefits, or other payments from a State or a private organization in return for enrolling lands in CRP.

(2) A participant may not receive or retain CRP cost-share payments if other Federal cost-share assistance is provided for such acreage under any law.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, cost-share payments for eligible seed related to the establishment of approved cover will not exceed 50 percent of the actual cost of the eligible seed mixture.

(e) Practice incentive payments will not exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the actual cost of installing the eligible practice specified in the conservation plan.
