
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1410 - CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
###### § 1410.31 Acceptability of offers.

(a) Producers may submit offers for the amounts they are willing to accept as rental payments to enroll their acreage in CRP. The offers will, to the extent practicable, be evaluated on a competitive basis in which the offers selected will be those where the greatest environmental benefits relative to cost are generated, and provided that the offer is not in excess of the maximum acceptable payment rate established by CCC for the acreage offered. Acceptance or rejection of any offer, however, will be in the sole discretion of CCC and offers may be rejected for any reason as determined needed to accomplish the goals of CRP.

(b) In evaluating offers, different factors may be considered by CCC for priority purposes to accomplish the goals of CRP. Such factors may include, but are not limited to:

(1) Soil erosion;

(2) Water quality (both surface and ground water);

(3) Wildlife benefits;

(4) Soil productivity;

(5) Likelihood that enrolled land will remain in non-agriculture use beyond the contract period, considering, for example, tree planting, permanent wildlife habitat, or commitments by a participant to a State or other entity to extend the conservation plan; and

(6) Cost of enrolling acreage in CRP.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, when all other appropriate factors are equivalent, CCC may give preference to offers from residents of the county or contiguous county where the offered land is located.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, acreage determined eligible for continuous signup, as provided in § 1410.30(b), may be automatically accepted in CRP if the:

(1) Land is eligible under § 1410.6;

(2) Producer is eligible under § 1410.5; and

(3) Producer accepts either the maximum payment rate CCC is willing to offer to enroll the acreage in CRP or a lesser rate.

(e) For grassland signup offers:

(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, offers to enroll in CRP under grassland signup, as specified in § 1410.30(c), will be evaluated and ranked during an announced ranking period, on a competitive basis in which the offers selected will be those where the greatest environmental benefits relative to cost are generated, and further provided that:

(i) The offered land is eligible under § 1410.6(d);

(ii) The producer is eligible under § 1410.5;

(iii) The producer accepts either the maximum payment rate CCC is willing to offer to enroll the acreage in CRP, or a lesser rate; and

(iv) The offer ranks above the minimum ranking level needed for offer acceptance, as determined by CCC.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, acceptance or rejection of any offer will be at the sole discretion of the CCC, and offers may be rejected for any reason as determined necessary and appropriate to accomplish the goals of CRP.

(f) In ranking and evaluating grassland signup offers, different factors may be considered by CCC for priority purposes to accomplish the goals of CRP. Such factors may include, but are not limited to:

(1) Existence of expiring CRP land;

(2) Land at risk of development or conversion; and

(3) Land of ecological significance, including land that:

(i) May assist in the restoration of threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973;

(ii) May assist in preventing a species from being listed as a threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973; or

(iii) Improves or creates wildlife habitat corridors.
