
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1410 - CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
###### § 1410.45 Incentive payments.

(a) A signup incentive payment will be made to eligible participants only for the initial enrollment of certain land that is enrolled under:

(1) A continuous signup authorized in § 1410.30(b) for land to be devoted to particular uses as determined by CCC; and

(2) A Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program as specified in § 1410.90 for land to be devoted to particular uses as determined by CCC.

(b) The signup incentive payment will be:

(1) An amount equal to 32.5 percent of the amount of the first annual rental payment for the land referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as determined by CCC;

(2) Divided among the participants on a CRP contract in accordance with their share of the annual rental payment as agreed to in such CRP contract;

(3) Considered an annual rental payment and thus subject to the provisions in § 1410.42(d); and

(4) Made only after the CRP contract is approved by CCC.

(c) A signup incentive payment will not be made for land that was previously enrolled in CRP or land currently enrolled in CRP that is re-enrolled.

(d) CCC may make incentive payments to owners and operators of enrolled land in an amount sufficient to encourage proper tree thinning and other practices to improve the condition of resources, promote forest management, or enhance wildlife habitat. Incentive payments for such tree thinning and other practices will:

(1) Not exceed 100 percent of the total cost of the practice;

(2) Only be available for practices outlined in the tree planting plan under the approved CRP conservation plan;

(3) Only be made to the extent that funds are available; and

(4) Not exceed $200,000 per person or entity.

(e) Additional financial incentives may be provided to participants whose contracts are expected to provide especially high environmental benefits. Such incentives will be considered annual rental payments and subject to the provisions in § 1410.42(d).
