
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1410 - CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1410.51 Transfer of land.

(a) If a new owner or operator purchases or obtains the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, the land subject to a CRP contract, such new owner or operator may be approved by CCC as a participant to a new CRP contract for the transferred land. Such new owner or operator must assume all obligations of the CRP contract of the previous participant.

(b) Cost-share payments will be made by CCC to the participant who established the practice.

(c) Annual rental payments to be paid during the fiscal year when the land was transferred will be divided between the new participant and the previous participant in the manner specified in ยง 1410.42.

(d) If a participant transfers all or part of the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, land subject to a CRP contract and the new owner or operator does not become a successor to such CRP contract within 60 days, or such other time period as CCC determines to be appropriate, then such CRP contract will be terminated with respect to the affected portion of such land and the original participant:

(1) Forfeits all rights to any future payments for that acreage; and

(2) Will refund all previous payments received under the CRP contract by the participant(s) or prior participants, plus interest and liquidated damages, except as otherwise agreed to by CCC.

(e) Federal agencies acquiring property, by foreclosure or otherwise, that contains CRP contract acreage cannot be a party to the CRP contract by succession. However, through an addendum to the CRP contract, if the current operator of the property is one of the CRP contract participants, such operator may continue to receive payments under such CRP contract if:

(1) The property is maintained in accordance with the terms of the CRP contract;

(2) Such operator continues to be the operator of the property; and

(3) Ownership of the property remains with such Federal agency.
