
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1410 - CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1410.62 Miscellaneous.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, in the case of death, incompetency, or disappearance of any participant, any payments due under this part will be paid to the participant's successor(s), as specified in part 707 of this title.

(b) Unless otherwise specified in this part, payments under this part will be subject to the requirements of part 12 of this title concerning highly erodible land and wetland conservation and payments.

(c) Any remedies permitted CCC under this part will be in addition to any other remedy, including, but not limited to, criminal remedies, or actions for damages in favor of CCC, or the United States, as may be permitted by law.

(d) When an owner loses control of CRP acreage due to foreclosure and the new owner chooses not to continue the contract in accordance with ยง 1410.51, refunds may not be required from any participant on the contract to the extent CCC determines that waiver of such refund is appropriate.

(e) Cropland enrolled in CRP will be classified as cropland for the time period it is enrolled in CRP. After the CRP contract ends, such land will be removed from the classification of cropland if the county committee determines the land no longer meet the definition of cropland in part 718 of this title.

(f) As determined by CCC, incentives may be authorized to foster opportunities for Indian Tribes and beginning, limited resource, socially disadvantaged, and veteran farmers and ranchers, and to enhance long-term environmental goals.
