
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1412 - AGRICULTURE RISK COVERAGE, PRICE LOSS COVERAGE, AND COTTON TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1412.2 Administration.

(a) ARC and PLC are administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice-President, CCC, and will be carried out by FSA State and county committees (State and county committees).

(b) State and county committees, and representatives and their employees, do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part.

(c) The State committee may take any action required by the regulations of this part that the county committee has not taken. The State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; or

(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.

(d) No provision or delegation to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, or the Deputy Administrator, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator has the authority to permit State and county committees to waive or modify any non-statutory deadline specified in this part.

(f) Items of general applicability to program participants, including, but not limited to, application periods, application deadlines, internal operating guidelines issued to State and county offices, prices, yields, and payment factors established for ARC or PLC, are not subject to appeal in accordance with part 780 of this title.
