
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1412 - AGRICULTURE RISK COVERAGE, PRICE LOSS COVERAGE, AND COTTON TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - ARC and PLC Contract Terms and Enrollment Provisions for Covered Commodities
####### ยง 1412.46 Planting flexibility.

(a) Any crop may be planted and harvested on base acres on a farm, except as limited in this section. Any crop may be planted on cropland in excess of the base acres on a farm.

(b) Base acres may be hayed or grazed at any time.

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the planting or harvesting of perennial or harvesting of non-perennial fruits, vegetables (except mung beans and covered commodities), or wild rice, as determined by FSA, will result in an acre for acre payment reduction when such crop or crops are planted and or harvested, as applicable, on more than:

(1) 15 percent of the base acres of a farm enrolled in ARC or PLC using county coverage; or

(2) 35 percent of the base acres of a farm enrolled in ARC using individual coverage.

(d) For each crop year for which a reduction in payment acres is made according to paragraph (c) of this section, those acres will be considered to be P&CP to a covered commodity for the purpose of any adjustment or reduction of base acres for the farm.

(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, perennial fruits, vegetables, and wild rice may be planted or harvested on base acres of a farm and non-perennial fruits, vegetables, and wild rice may be harvested on base acres of a farm if a producer double-crops fruits, vegetables, or wild rice with a covered commodity in any region described in paragraph (f) of this section, in which case payment acres will not be reduced for the planting or harvesting of the fruit, vegetable, or wild rice.

(f) Double-cropping for purposes of this section means planting for harvest non-perennial fruits, vegetables, or wild rice on the same acres in cycle with a planted covered commodity harvested for grain in a 12-month period under normal growing conditions for the region and being able to repeat the same cycle in the following 12-month period. For purposes of this part, the following counties have been determined to be regions having a history of double-cropping covered commodities or peanuts with fruits, vegetables, or wild rice. State committees have established the following counties as regions within their respective States:
