
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1412 - AGRICULTURE RISK COVERAGE, PRICE LOSS COVERAGE, AND COTTON TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart E - Financial Considerations Including Sharing Payments
####### ยง 1412.51 Limitation of payments.

(a) The provisions of part 1400 of this chapter apply to this part. Payments under this part cannot exceed the amounts specified in part 1400 of this chapter.

(b) For all covered commodities other than peanuts, the total amount of ARC and PLC payments received, directly or indirectly, by a person or legal entity (except a joint venture or general partnership) for any crop year for any and all commodities cannot exceed $125,000.

(c) For peanuts, the total amount of payments received, directly or indirectly, by a person or legal entity (except a joint venture or general partnership) for any crop year cannot exceed $125,000.

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a producer on a farm is not eligible to receive ARC and PLC payments if the sum of the base acres on the farm is 10 acres or less unless the sum of the base acres on the farm, when combined with the base acres of other farms in which the producer has an enrolled producer share interest greater than zero, is more than 10 acres. The 10-acre limitation of this section will not apply to a socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher, a beginning farmer or rancher, a veteran farmer or rancher, or a limited resource farmer or rancher.

(e) Any person or legal entity interested in obtaining a payment under this part for a crop year, in addition to satisfying all eligibility requirements of this part, must submit any and all documents from which payment eligibility can be determined to FSA by March 1 of the second year after the end of the annual contract period for which payments are being made. For example, to obtain a payment for a 2019 contract, which ends in calendar year 2020, all documents must be submitted to FSA by March 1, 2021. This includes any payment eligibility document required under part 12 or part 1400 of this title. For example, for the 2019 contract year, the final date for submission of documents from which payment eligibility will be determined and apply is March 1, 2021. Payments will not issue to any person or legal entity who fails to submit required forms and documents by this date. Further these payments will not be considered denied, as the person or legal entity is presumed to have forfeited their interest in the payment.
