
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1412 - AGRICULTURE RISK COVERAGE, PRICE LOSS COVERAGE, AND COTTON TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart F - Violations and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 1412.64 Inaccurate representation, misrepresentation, and scheme or device.

(a) Producers are required to accurately report and certify information provided to CCC for ARC or PLC. Any form containing the signature of a person or legal entity that contains a preprinted certification statement on the form will be construed to be a representation and certification of and from the person or legal entity signing the form regardless of whether or not the person or legal entity personally made the entry or entries on the form. Errors in reporting may impact eligibility or extent of eligibility. Payments under this part will be based on the most correct information available. CCC's issuing payments based on the face of a contract does not signify CCC's approval of the representations made by participants. Producers are responsible for refunding, with interest as specified in ยง 1412.1(d) of this part, any program benefits that were paid based on incorrect program information.

(b) For those cases in which FSA determines that an inaccurate representation or certification is due to a misrepresentation, scheme, or device, the person or legal entity or members of the legal entity will be ineligible to receive ARC or PLC payments and will have the person, legal entity's or member's interest in all contracts or applications terminated if it is determined that such person, legal entity, or member of the legal entity has done any of the following:

(1) Adopted any scheme or device that tends to defeat the purpose of this part;

(2) Made any fraudulent representation;

(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting an ARC or PLC Program contract or determination made under part 1400 of this chapter; or

(4) Violated or been determined ineligible under ยง 1400.5 of this chapter.

(c) Any remedies taken by FSA or CCC as specified in this section will be in addition to any other civil or other remedies that may be available, including, but not limited to, those provided in part 1400 of this chapter.
