
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1412 - AGRICULTURE RISK COVERAGE, PRICE LOSS COVERAGE, AND COTTON TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart H - CTAP
####### ยง 1412.89 Division of CTAP payments and provisions relating to tenants and sharecroppers.

(a) CTAP payments will be divided in the manner specified in the applicable application approved by CCC. CCC will ensure that 2014 or 2015 producers who would have a 2014 or 2015 reported share interest in cropland on the farm specified in ยง 1412.82(b) receive treatment that CCC deems to be equitable, as determined by CCC. CCC will refrain from acting on an application if, as determined by CCC, there is a disagreement among any person or legal entity applying as to the person's or legal entity's eligibility to apply as a tenant and there is insufficient evidence to indicate whether the person seeking participation as a tenant does or does not have a reported share interest in the cropland on the farm sufficient to cover the claimed share interest in cotton base acres of that farm as specified in ยง 1412.82(b) in 2014 or 2015, as applicable.

(b) CCC may remove an operator or tenant from an application under this subpart and part when the operator or tenant:

(1) Requests, in writing to be removed from the application;

(2) Files for bankruptcy and the trustee or debtor in possession fails to affirm the application, to the extent permitted by the provisions of applicable bankruptcy laws;

(3) Dies during the 2014 or 2015 program year and the Administrator of the estate fails to succeed to the application within a period of time determined by the Deputy Administrator; or

(4) Is the subject of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the removal from the application under this part and subpart of the operator or tenant and such order is received by FSA, as determined by CCC.

(c) In addition to the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section, tenants are required to maintain their tenancy throughout the crop year in order to remain on an application. Tenants who fail to maintain tenancy on the acreage under the application, including failure to comply with provisions under applicable State law, may be removed from an application by CCC. CCC will assume the tenancy is being maintained unless notified otherwise by a participant specified in the application.
