
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1413 - COMMODITY INCENTIVE PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Durum Wheat Quality Program
####### ยง 1413.106 Application process.

(a) To apply for DWQP payment, the producer must submit, to the FSA county office that maintains the producer's farm records for the agricultural operation, a completed application as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, including any supporting documentation required by FSA, and a report of acreage.

(b) The producer must submit a completed application for payment and required supporting documentation to the administrative FSA county office during the relevant, for the crop, application period announced by FSA which will end no later than September 15 of the crop year in which the fungicide was applied to a crop of durum wheat.

(c) A complete application includes all of the following:

(1) An application form provided by FSA;

(2) Certification of the total number and location of acres planted to durum wheat on which an eligible fungicide was applied specifically to control Fusarium head blight;

(3) Certification of the date durum wheat, on which an eligible fungicide was applied specifically to control Fusarium head blight, was planted;

(4) Certification of the type of eligible fungicide applied to acres certified as planted to durum wheat;

(5) Certification of the date eligible fungicide was applied to acres certified as planted to durum wheat;

(6) Documentation providing adequate proof, as determined by FSA, of the producer's actual cost of purchasing and applying eligible fungicide to acres certified as planted to durum wheat for one treatment; and

(7) Any other documentation as determined by FSA to be necessary to make a determination of eligibility of the producer.

(d) The producer requesting benefits under this program certifies the accuracy and truthfulness of the information provided in the application as well as any documentation filed with or in support of the application. All information provided is subject to verification by FSA.

(e) Data furnished by the producer will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, without all required data program benefits will not be approved or provided.
