
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1413 - COMMODITY INCENTIVE PAYMENT PROGRAMS
###### Subpart A - Durum Wheat Quality Program
####### ยง 1413.103 Administration.

(a) DWQP will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC (Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA)), or a designee, and will be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees and FSA employees.

(b) FSA representatives do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this subpart, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) The State FSA committee will take any action required by the provisions of this subpart that the county FSA committee has not taken. The State FSA committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require a county FSA committee to correct, any action taken by such county FSA committee that is not in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(2) Require a county FSA committee to not take an action that is not in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(d) No provision or delegation to a State or county FSA committee will preclude the Administrator, Deputy Administrator, or a designee from determining any question arising under the program in this subpart, or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county FSA committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator may authorize State and county FSA committees to waive or modify non-statutory program requirements of this subpart in cases where failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect operation of the program in this subpart. Producers have no right to seek an exception under this provision. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to consider cases or circumstances or decision not to exercise this discretionary authority under this provision will not be considered an adverse decision and is not appealable.
