
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1415 - GRASSLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1415.9 Enrollment of easements and rental contracts.

(a) Based on the priority ranking, NRCS or FSA, as appropriate, will notify applicants in writing of their tentative acceptance into the program for either rental contract or conservation easement options. The letter notifies the applicant of the intent to continue the enrollment process unless otherwise notified by the applicant. Enrollment under cooperative agreements is described under ยง 1415.17.

(b) An offer of tentative acceptance into the program neither binds USDA to acquire an easement or enter into a rental contract, nor binds the applicant to convey an easement, enter into a rental contract, or agree to restoration activities.

(c) Offer of enrollment will be through either:

(1) An agreement to purchase an easement presented by NRCS to the applicant which will describe the easement, the easement terms and conditions, and other terms and conditions that may be required by NRCS; or

(2) A rental contract will be presented by FSA to the applicant which will describe the contract area, the contract terms and conditions, and other terms and conditions that may be required by FSA.

(d) For rental contracts, land will be considered to be enrolled in GRP once an FSA representative approves the GRP rental contract. FSA may withdraw the offer before approval of the contract due to lack of available funds or other reasons.

(e) For easements, after the option agreement to purchase an easement is executed by NRCS and the participant, the land will be considered enrolled in GRP. NRCS will proceed with the development of the GRP management plan, conservation or restoration plan if applicable, and various easement acquisition activities, which may include conducting a legal survey of the easement area, securing necessary subordination agreements, procuring title insurance, and conducting other activities necessary to record the easement or implement GRP.

(f) Prior to closing an easement, NRCS may withdraw the land from enrollment at any time due to lack of available funds, title concerns, or other reasons.
