
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1416 - EMERGENCY AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - Livestock Indemnity Program
####### ยง 1416.306 Payment calculation.

(a) Under this subpart, separate payment rates for eligible livestock owners and eligible livestock contract growers are specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, respectively. Payments for death losses are calculated by multiplying the national payment rate for each livestock category by the number of eligible livestock in excess of normal mortality in each category that died as a result of an eligible loss condition. Normal mortality for each livestock category will be determined by FSA on a State-by-State basis using local data sources including, but not limited to, State livestock organizations and the Cooperative Extension Service for the State. Adjustments will be applied as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) The LIP national payment rate for eligible livestock owners is based on 75 percent of the average fair market value of the applicable livestock as computed using nationwide prices for the previous calendar year unless some other price is approved by the Deputy Administrator.

(c) The LIP national payment rate for eligible livestock contract growers is based on 75 percent of the average income loss sustained by the contract grower with respect to the dead livestock. The rate that applies is based on the type, class, and weight of the animal at the time of the eligible loss condition and death.

(d) The LIP payment calculated for eligible livestock contract growers will be reduced by the amount the participant received from the party who contracted with the producer to raise the livestock for the loss of income from the dead livestock.

(e) Payments to livestock owners for losses due to sale of livestock at a reduced price because of injury from an eligible loss condition are calculated by multiplying the national payment rate for each livestock category by the number of eligible livestock sold at a reduced price as a result of an eligible loss condition, minus the gross amount the eligible livestock owner received for the livestock up to the applicable national payment rate. In the event livestock sells for a reduced price that is in excess of the national payment rate, the national payment rate will be subtracted resulting in no payment for that livestock.
