
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1421.1 Applicability and interest.

(a) The regulations in this subpart are applicable to crops of barley, small and large chickpeas, corn, grain sorghum, lentils, oats, dry peas, peanuts, rice, wheat, wool, mohair, oilseeds and other crops designated by Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). These regulations specify the general provisions under which Marketing Assistance Loans (MALs) and Loan Deficiency Payments (LDPs) will be administered by CCC. Additional terms and conditions are in the additional documents required to receive MALs and LDPs. In any case in which money must be refunded to CCC in connection with this part, interest will be due to run from the date of disbursement of the sum to be refunded. This provision will apply, unless waived by the Deputy Administrator, irrespective of any other rule.

(b)(1) The basic loan rates, the schedule of premiums and discounts, and forms applicable to the MAL and LDP Programs for the commodities specified in paragraph (a) of this section are available in Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county offices. The forms for use in these programs will be prescribed by CCC.

(2) LDPs will be available for unshorn pelts, hay and silage.

(c) MALs and LDPs will not be available for any commodity produced on land owned or otherwise in the possession of the United States if such land is occupied without the consent of the United States.

(d) Producers who produced eligible loan commodities are eligible for MALs or LDPs.

(e) Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) provisions specified in part 1400 of this chapter apply to this part.
