
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1416 - EMERGENCY AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart E - Tree Assistance Program
####### ยง 1416.403 Eligible losses.

(a) To qualify for any assistance under this subpart, except for assistance under ยง 1416.400(c), the eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower must first have suffered more than a 15 percent tree, bush, or vine mortality loss on a stand (adjusted for normal mortality) as a result of natural disaster as determined by the Deputy Administrator. For assistance for losses to pecan trees under ยง 1416.400(c), the eligible orchardist or nursery tree grower must first have suffered a mortality loss of more than 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mortality) on a stand as a result of natural disaster as determined by the Deputy Administrator.

(b) The qualifying loss of a stand of trees, bushes, or vines specified in paragraph (a) of this section will be determined based on:

(1) Each eligible disaster event, except for losses due to plant disease;

(2) For plant disease, the time period, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, for which the stand is infected.

(c) Mortality or damage loss not eligible for inclusion as a qualifying loss under this section or for payment under ยง 1416.406 includes those losses where:

(1) The loss or damage could have been prevented through reasonable and available measures; and

(2) The trees, bushes, or vines, in the absence of a natural disaster, would normally have required rehabilitation or replanting within the 12-month period following the loss.

(d) The damage or loss must be visible and obvious to the county committee representative. If the damage is no longer visible, the county committee may accept other evidence of the loss as it determines is reasonable.

(e) The county committee may require information from a qualified expert, as determined by the county committee, to determine extent of loss in the case of plant disease or insect infestation.

(f) The Deputy Administrator will determine the types of trees, bushes, and vines that are eligible.

(g) A stand that did not suffer a qualifying mortality loss as specified in paragraph (a) of this section is not eligible for payment. The qualifying mortality loss will be determined based on the eligible trees, bushes, or vines that reached mortality, which means that the tree, bush, or vine died, above and below ground, as a result of an eligible natural disaster event. If an eligible tree, bush, or vine is damaged to such an extent that it is not commercially viable, now or at any time in the future, the tree, bush, or vine can be considered dead in determining if the requisite qualifying mortality loss threshold in paragraph (a) of this section is reached.
