
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1421.2 Administration.

(a) The MAL and LDP Programs will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC and will be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees, respectively.

(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, cannot modify or waive any requirement of this part, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) The State committee will take any required action not taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:

(1) Correct or require correction of an action taken by a county committee that is not in compliance with this part; or

(2) Require a county committee to not take an action or implement a decision that is not under the regulations of this part.

(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, may determine any question arising under these programs, or reverse or modify a determination made by a State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the MAL and LDP Programs.

(f) A representative of CCC may execute MAL and LDP applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any document not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void.
