
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart A - General
####### § 1421.10 Loan repayment rates.
######## 2

() The market value of broken kernels contained in the rough rice, computed by multiplying the estimated world market value of broken kernels by the estimated national average quantity of broken kernels produced in milling 100 pounds of rice;

(B) Deducting from such price an estimated cost of milling rough rice; and an estimated cost of transporting rough rice from farm to mill locations.

(5) The adjusted world price for each class of rice, loan rate basis, will be determined by CCC and announced, to the extent practicable, on or after 7 a.m. Eastern Standard Time each Wednesday or more frequently as determined necessary by CCC, continuing through the later of:

(i) The last Wednesday of July in the calendar year following the year the rice crop was harvested, or in which the rice MAL matures,

(ii) The last Wednesday of the latest month the rice MAL matures, or

(iii) If Tuesday is not a normal business day, the price determination may be made on the next work day and announced the following day, on or after 7 a.m. Eastern Standard Time.

(i) The producer may repay a MAL under this section for confectionery and each other kind of sunflower seed (other than oil sunflower seed) at a rate that is the lesser of:

(1) The loan rate established for the commodity under § 1421.9, plus interest, or

(2) The repayment rate established for oil sunflower seed.

(j)(1) On a form prescribed by CCC, a producer may request to lock in the applicable repayment rate for a period of 60 calendar days or for the remaining life of the MAL term, whichever is less, provided that no request may be granted within 14 calendar days of the end of the MAL.

(2) The request to lock in the applicable repayment rate must be received in the FSA county service center that disbursed the MAL.

(3) The repayment rate that is locked in will be the rate in effect when the request to lock in is approved.

(4) The repayment rate may be locked in on outstanding farm-stored or warehouse-stored loans.

(5) The repayment rate that is locked in will expire as provided in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.

(6) The requests can only be completed one time for a designated quantity.

(7) For multiple locked in requests, the oldest unexpired locked in repayment rate is applied first.

(8) The completed and signed form can be submitted in person, by facsimile, or electronically.

(9) The requests cannot be canceled, terminated, or changed after approval.

(10) The locked in applicable repayment rate will transfer to any MAL disbursed outside of the originating county where the commodity was stored.

(11) Once a repayment rate is locked in it cannot be extended.

(k) If a producer fails to repay a MAL within the time prescribed by CCC under the terms and conditions of the request to lock in a market loan repayment rate, the producer may repay the MAL:

(1) On or before maturity, at the lesser of:

(i) Principal plus interest as determined by CCC; or

(ii) The repayment rate in effect on the day the repayment is received in the FSA County Service Center.

(2) After maturity, at principal plus interest.

(l) When the proceeds of the sale of the commodity are needed to repay all or a part of a farm-stored MAL, the producer must request and obtain prior written approval on a CCC-approved form and comply with the terms and conditions of such form, to remove a specified quantity of the commodity from storage. Approval does not constitute release of CCC's security interest in the commodity or release of producer liability for amounts due CCC for the MAL indebtedness if payment in full is not received by the FSA county office. Failure to repay a MAL within the time period prescribed by CCC in the case of a farm-stored loan and delivery of the pledged collateral to a buyer is a violation of the agreement. In the case of such violation, the producer must repay the loan principal and interest or another amount as determined by the Deputy Administrator, FSA, as specified in § 1421.109.

(m) The producer may obtain county committee approval of a release of all or part of pledged collateral for a warehouse-stored MAL at or before the maturity of such MAL by paying to CCC:

(1) The principal amount of the marketing assistance loan and charges plus interest or

(2) An amount less than the principal amount of the MAL and charges plus interest under the terms and conditions specified by CCC at the time the producer redeems the collateral for such MAL.

(n) A partial release of marketing assistance loan collateral must cover all of the commodity represented by one warehouse receipt. Warehouse receipts redeemed by repayment of the marketing assistance loan must be released only to the producer. However, such receipt may be released to persons designated in a written authorization that is filed with the county office by the producer within 15 days before the date of repayment.

(o) The note and security agreement will not be released until the marketing assistance loan has been satisfied in full.

(p)(1) If the commodity is moved from storage without obtaining prior approval to move such commodity, such removal will constitute unauthorized removal or disposition, as applicable under § 1421.109(b), unless the removal occurred on a non-workday and the producer notified the county office on the next workday of such removal.

(2) Any MAL quantities involved in a violation of § 1421.109 must be repaid under § 1421.109(e).

(q) In the event of a severe disruption to marketing, transportation, or related infrastructure, the Secretary may modify the repayment rate otherwise applicable under this section for marketing assistance loans. Any adjustment made to the repayment rate for marketing assistance loans for a loan commodity under § 1421.5 will be in effect on a short-term and temporary basis, as determined by the Secretary.
