
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1421.7 Requesting MALs and LDPs.

(a) A producer may apply for a MAL or LDP at any FSA county office. The receiving FSA county office will forward the MAL or LDP request to the administrative county office, as specified in part 718 of this title, that is responsible for administrating programs for the farm on which the commodity was produced. The administrative county office will process and approve the MAL or LDP.

(b) A MAL or LDP may be requested in person, by mail, or by electronic format designated by CCC. Forms prescribed by CCC may be obtained from the FSA Web site.

(c) To receive a MAL or LDP for an eligible commodity, a producer must execute a note and security agreement or LDP application on or before the applicable final loan availability date, as follows:

(1) March 31 of the year following the year in which the following crops are normally harvested: barley, canola, flaxseed, oats, rapeseed, crambe, sesame seed, and wheat.

(2) May 31 of the year following the year in which the following crops are normally harvested: corn, grain sorghum, mustard seed, rice, safflower, soybeans, sunflower seed, dry peas, lentils, and chickpeas.

(3) January 31 of the year following the year in which peanuts are normally harvested or wool and mohair are normally sheared.
