
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 1421.9 Basic loan rates.

(a) Basic MAL rates for a commodity may be established on a National, State, regional, county basis or other basis, will be at rates that comply with applicable statutes, and may be adjusted by CCC to reflect grade, type, quality, location and other factors applicable to the commodity and as otherwise provided in this section.

(b) The basic MAL rates for wheat, corn, barley, oats, grain sorghum, rice, peanuts, soybean, canola, flaxseed, mustard seed, rapeseed, safflower, sunflower seed, dry peas, lentils, chickpeas, crambe, sesame seed, wool, mohair and other crops designated by CCC will be determined by CCC and made available to State and county offices.

(c) Subject to adjustment as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, in case of forfeiture, for all commodities except rice and peanuts, warehouse-stored MALs will be disbursed at levels based on the basic county MAL rate for the county where the commodity is stored.

(1) For rice, subject to adjustment as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, in case of forfeiture, warehouse-stored MALs will be disbursed at levels based on the milling yields times the whole and broken kernel MAL rates.

(2) For peanuts, warehouse-stored MALs will be disbursed at levels based on National loan rates by peanut type, adjusted for the schedule of premiums and discounts on the basis of grade, quality, and other factors specified on warehouse receipts.

(d) The Secretary will establish a single loan rate in each county for each kind of other oilseeds, such as but not limited to, sunflower, rapeseed, canola, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, crambe, sesame seed, and other oilseeds as designated by the Secretary.

(e) Adjustments by the Secretary to establish loan rates for loan commodities, except rice, on a county basis will not be lower than 95 percent of the national average loan rate, if those loan rates do not result in an increase in outlays. Adjustments in this section will not result in an increase in the national average loan rate for any year.

(f) For all crop years, premiums and discounts will not apply for all eligible loan commodities at loan disbursement, except for peanuts or additional commodities as determined by the Deputy Administrator on a crop year basis. However, premiums and discounts will apply if the eligible loan commodities are forfeited or delivered to CCC and any deficiency must be repaid to CCC.
