
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.105 Farm-stored MALs.

(a) The producer of a commodity pledged as security for a farm-storage MAL:

(1) Certifies the quantity of such commodity on the MAL application, or;

(2) Has such quantity measured by CCC at the measurement service rate established by CCC.

(b) The State committee may establish a MAL percentage not to exceed a percentage CCC establishes or it may apply quality discounts to the loan rate in each year for each commodity on a statewide basis or for specified areas within the State. Before approving a county committee request to establish a different loan percentage, or to apply quality discounts, the State committee will consider conditions in the State or areas within a State to determine if the MAL percentage should be reduced below the maximum MAL percentage or the quality discounts should be applied to the basic county MAL rate to provide CCC with adequate protection. MALs disbursed based upon loan percentages previously lowered and loan rates adjusted for quality will not be altered if conditions within the State or areas within the State change to substantiate removing such reductions. Percentages established or loan rates adjusted for quality under this section will apply only to new MALs and not to outstanding MALs. In determining loan percentages or the necessity to apply quality discounts, the State committee will consider any factor at its discretion, including the following:

(1) General crop conditions;

(2) Factors affecting quality peculiar to an area within the State; and

(3) Climatic conditions affecting storability.

(c) An eligible quantity of a commodity that is commingled with an ineligible quantity of the commodity is not eligible to be collateral for a MAL unless the producer, when requesting a MAL designates all structures that may be used for storage of the MAL collateral.

(1) In such cases, the producer is not required to obtain prior written approval from the county committee before moving MAL collateral from one designated structure to another designated structure.

(2) In all other instances, if the producer intends to move MAL collateral from a designated structure to an undesignated structure, the producer must request prior approval from the county committee in writing. The producer may request that the eligible or ineligible commodity be measured by a representative of the county office, at the producer's expense, before commingling, but such measurement is not required. Prior to commingling, with respect to wool and mohair, a representative of the FSA county committee may determine an average production of the wool and mohair in a manner approved by CCC.

(d)(1) Two or more producers may obtain:

(i) A single joint MAL for commodities that are stored in the same farm storage facility; or

(ii) Individual MALs for their share of the commodity that is commingled in a farm storage facility with commodities owned by other producers if such other producers execute an agreement that provides that such producers will obtain the permission of a representative of the county committee before removal of any quantity of the commodity from the storage facility. All producers who store a commodity in a farm storage facility in which commodities that have been pledged as collateral for a MAL will be liable for any damage incurred by CCC for the deterioration or unauthorized removal or disposition of such commodities.

(2) In such cases, each producer must execute a note and security agreement with CCC, and each such producer will be jointly and severally liable for the violation of the terms and conditions of the note and the requirements of this part. Each producer is also liable for repayment of the entire MAL amount until the MAL is fully repaid without regard to their share in the commodity pledged as collateral. In addition, such producer may not amend the note and security agreement for the producer's claimed share in such commodities, or MAL proceeds, after execution of the note and security agreement by CCC.

(e)(1) A producer, when requesting a MAL, will designate in writing specific storage structures.

(2) The producer is not required to request prior approval before moving marketing assistance loan collateral between such designated structures.

(3) Movement of MAL collateral to any other structures not designated or the disposal of such loan collateral without prior written approval of the county committee, will subject the producer to administrative actions.

(4) The producer is responsible for any loss in quantity or quality of the farm-stored commodity pledged as collateral.

(5) CCC will not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the MAL collateral for farm-stored MALs.

(f) If the producer does not pay CCC the total amount due in accordance with a MAL by the maturity date, CCC has the right to acquire title to the MAL collateral and to sell or otherwise take possession of such collateral without any further action by the producer. With respect to farm-stored MALs, the producer may, as CCC determines, deliver the MAL collateral in accordance with instructions issued by CCC. CCC will not accept delivery of any quantity of a commodity in excess of 110 percent of the outstanding farm-stored MAL quantity. If a quantity in excess of 110 percent of the outstanding farm-stored MAL quantity is shown on the warehouse receipt or other documents, the producer must provide replacement warehouse receipts and delivery documents. If the warehouse receipt and such other documents applicable to the settlement are not replaced to reflect the excess amount, CCC will provide for such corrected documents and apply charges for such service, if any, to the producer's account as charges for settlement on the MAL.
