
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.103 Authorized storage.

(a) Authorized farm storage is:

(1) A storage structure located on or off the farm, (excluding public warehouses that do not enter into an agreement with CCC), that CCC determines to be controlled by the producer which affords safe storage of collateral pledged for a MAL;

(2) If determined and announced to be available in a State or county, on ground storage and other temporary storage structures approved by CCC.

(3) As determined by CCC, temporary authorized storage may also include:

(i) On-ground storage or;

(ii) Other storage arrangements.

(b) CCC may reduce the quantity of a commodity pledged as collateral for a MAL made available under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to not more than 75 percent of such otherwise eligible quantity in order to protect the interests of CCC. CCC may also limit the length of time the commodity may be stored on-ground or in temporary structures to not more than 90 days. A MAL made with respect to such commodity that is not moved to a structure specified in (a)(2) within 90 days of the date the MAL was disbursed may be called by CCC.

(c)(1) Authorized warehouse storage consists of warehouses that:

(i) If Federally licensed, are in compliance with 7 CFR part 735 or

(ii) If not Federally licensed, are in compliance with State laws and that issue warehouse receipts that meet the criteria specified in ยง 1421.107.

(iii) If not Federally licensed or in compliance with State Laws and issue warehouse receipts that meet the criteria specified in ยง 1421.107, have entered into a storage agreement with CCC.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if storing peanuts, the warehouse must in all cases have entered into a storage agreement with CCC. For storing other crops, notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, CCC may, on a case-by-case basis, still require a warehouse operator that would qualify under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section to enter into a storage agreement if deemed necessary by the Deputy Administrator to be needed to protect CCC's interests.
