
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.102 Adjustment of basic loan rates.

(a) Basic loan rates are established under ยง 1421.9 and will be adjusted or not adjusted as follows:

(1) For farm-stored commodities, except for peanuts, that exceed acceptable levels of contamination, the loan rate will be discounted to 10 percent of the base county MAL rate if pledged as collateral for a nonrecourse loan. Loan rates for commodities with acceptable levels of contamination will not be adjusted if pledged as collateral for recourse loans.

(2) For farm-stored commodities where the test weight discounts are on the:

(i) Crop year specific schedules of premiums and discounts, the MAL rate will be adjusted for the higher of the discount for test weight or grade based on test weight.

(ii) Additional schedule of discounts, the MAL rate will be reduced to 20 percent of the county loan rate.

(3) With respect to commodities harvested, excluding silage or hay, as other than grain and pledged as collateral for a nonrecourse MAL, the MAL rate will be discounted to 30 percent of the county loan rate.

(4) With respect to farm-stored wheat, the basic county loan rate will not be adjusted to reflect the protein content.

(5) With respect to Segregation 2 and 3 peanuts as determined by CCC, the MAL rate will be discounted to 35 percent of the applicable loan rate.
