
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.104 Making MALs.

(a)(1) CCC may conduct such lien searches and may perfect its interest in loan commodities under State law as it deems to be in its interest.

(2) The cost for terminating the financing statement for MALs disbursed under this part before the end of the term will be paid by the producer.

(3) If there are any liens or encumbrances on the commodity pledged as collateral for a MAL made under this part, waivers that fully protect CCC's interest must be obtained even though the liens or encumbrances are satisfied from MAL proceeds disbursed under this part. No additional liens or encumbrances will be placed on the commodity after such a MAL is approved.

(b) Fees, charges, interest, and all applicable approved commodity assessment collections must be paid by the producer at a rate CCC determines or, in the case of assessments, at a rate approved by the assessment authority. Such fees, charges, and interest include:

(1) A non-refundable loan service fee;

(2) Interest that accrues on a loan under part 1405 of this chapter.

(c) To ensure proper storage of peanuts for which a MAL is made under this section, the Secretary will pay reasonable handling and other associated costs (other than storage) incurred at the time at which the peanuts are placed in a warehouse stored MAL. Such rates will be available in the State and county FSA offices.
