
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.109 Personal liability of the producer.

(a) When a producer obtains a commodity MAL, the producer agrees, in writing, not to:

(1) Provide an incorrect certification of the quantity or make any fraudulent or erroneous representation for the MAL;

(2) Remove or dispose of a quantity of commodity that is collateral for a CCC farm-stored MAL without prior written approval from CCC in accordance with ยง 1421.10; or

(3) Violate the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement, which will cause harm or damage to CCC in that funds may be disbursed to the producer for a quantity of a commodity that is not actually in existence or for a quantity on which the producer is not eligible. If CCC determines that the producer has violated the terms and conditions of the applicable forms prescribed by CCC, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity of the commodity that is involved in the violation.

(b) Such violations as referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may include, but are not limited to:

(1) Incorrect certification;

(2) Unauthorized removal; and

(3) Unauthorized disposition.

(c) If the county committee determines that the producer has committed such violations, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity of the commodity that is involved in the violation.

(d) Liquidated damages assessed in accordance with this section will be determined by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the MAL rate applicable to the MAL note.

(e) When it has been determined that a violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement has occurred as a result of unauthorized removal or disposition, CCC will determine the quantity of the commodity involved with respect to such violation and require the repayment of that portion of the MAL which is equivalent to such quantity of the commodity. In the case of these violations, if CCC determines the producer:

(1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed according to paragraph (d) of this section and the commodity involved in the violation must be redeemed at the lesser of:

(i) The rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement; or

(ii) The alternative repayment rate in effect on the date of the determination is issued by CCC that a violation has occurred, plus 15 percent of the original MAL rate as provided on the note and security agreement.

(2) Did not act in good faith when the violation was committed, liquidated damages will be assessed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and administrative actions will be taken in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The MAL is required to be redeemed at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.

(f) When it has been determined that a violation of the terms and conditions of the note and security agreement has occurred as result of an incorrect certification, CCC will determine the quantity of the commodity involved with respect to such violation and require the repayment of that portion of the MAL which is equivalent to such quantity of the commodity. In the case of an incorrect certification, if CCC determines the producer:

(1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed according to paragraph (d) of this section, and the commodity involved in the violation must be redeemed at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.

(2) Did not act in good faith about the violation, liquidated damages will be assessed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and administrative actions will be taken in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The MAL must be redeemed at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed, plus interest and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.

(g) If the producer fails to pay such amount within 30 days from the date of notification of violations as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (f)(1) of this section, the producer must immediately repay the MAL at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed plus interest, and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement.

(h) For violations as specified in paragraphs (e)(2) and (f)(2) of this section, the producer must immediately repay the MAL at the rate at which the MAL was disbursed plus interest, and any other charges assessed under the note and security agreement. If the MAL has already been repaid, any market loan gain previously realized on the MAL, plus interest, is immediately due to CCC. CCC will demand delivery of any remaining MAL collateral if the MAL and any other charges and interest are not repaid within the 30 calendar day notification period specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) If the county committee determines that the producer has committed a violation, the county committee will notify the producer in writing that:

(1) The producer has 30 calendar days to provide sufficient evidence and information regarding the circumstances that caused the violation, to the county committee; and

(2) Administrative actions will be taken.

(j) If the MAL is accelerated, the producer may not repay the MAL at the alternative loan repayment rate, unless authorized by CCC.

(k) Producers denied or rejected for a farm-stored MAL for any reason under this section may apply for a warehouse-stored MAL.

(l) The MAL plus other charges are payable to CCC upon demand if a producer:

(1) Makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a MAL, maintaining, or settling a MAL; or

(2) Disposes or moves the MAL collateral without the approval of CCC.

(m) A producer is personally liable for damages resulting from a commodity delivered to or removed by CCC containing mercurial compounds, toxin producing molds, or other substances poisonous or harmful to humans or animals or property.

(n) If the amount disbursed under a MAL or in settlement of the MAL, exceeds the amount authorized by this part, the producer is liable for repayment of the excess and charges, plus interest.

(o) If the amount collected from the producer in satisfaction of the MAL is less than the amount required under this part, the producer is personally liable for repayment of the amount of such difference and charges, plus interest.

(p) In the case of joint MALs, the personal liability for the amounts specified in this section is joint and several on the part of each producer signing the note.

(q) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed under this section may be waived if the CCC determines that the violation occurred inadvertently, accidentally, or unintentionally.
