
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.108 Transfers and reconcentrations.

(a) Upon request by the producer before transfer, the county committee may approve the transfer of a quantity of a commodity that is pledged as collateral for a farm-stored MAL to a warehouse-stored MAL at any time during the MAL period.

(1) Transfer of all or part of the farm-stored MAL collateral to an authorized warehouse will be made through the pledge of warehouse receipts for the commodity placed under a warehouse-stored MAL. The loan rate of the transferred MAL will be the same as the loan rate of the original MAL. The MAL quantity for the warehouse-stored MAL cannot exceed the loan quantity transferred from the farm-stored MAL.

(2) Any amounts due the producer will be disbursed by the FSA county service center.

(b) The producer must request county committee approval before the transfer of a warehouse-stored MAL to a farm-stored MAL. The county committee may approve the transfer of part or all of a warehouse-stored MAL at any time during the MAL period. Quantities pledged as collateral for a farm-stored MAL will be based on a measurement or a calculation of average production of wool and mohair, by a representative of the county office before approving the farm-stored MAL. The producer must immediately repay the amount by which the farm-stored MAL is less than the warehouse-stored MAL and charges plus interest on the shortage. The maturity date of the farm-stored MAL is the maturity date applicable to the warehouse-stored MAL that was transferred.

(c) Upon the filing of the Reconcentration Agreement and Trust Receipt by the producer and warehouse operator, CCC may, during the MAL period, approve the reconcentration in another authorized warehouse for all or part of a commodity that is pledged as collateral for a warehouse-stored MAL. Any such approval will be subject to the terms and conditions in the Reconcentration Agreement and Trust Receipt. A producer may, before the new warehouse receipt is delivered to CCC, pay CCC:

(1) The principal amount of the MAL and charges plus interest and applicable charges; or

(2) If CCC so announces, an amount less than the principal amount of the MAL and charges plus interest under the terms and conditions specified by CCC at the time the producer redeems the commodity pledged as collateral for such MAL.
