
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.107 Warehouse receipts.
######## 8

() Sesame Seed: 10.0 percent.

(i)(1) If, under paragraph (g) of this section, a supplemental certificate is issued in connection with a warehouse receipt, such certificate must state that no lien for processing will be asserted by the warehouse operator against CCC or any subsequent holder of such receipt.

(2) Warehouse receipts and the commodities represented by such receipts may be subject to a lien for warehouse charges. For all commodities except peanuts, the producer who pledged such a receipt as collateral for a MAL under this part pays to CCC all costs incurred by CCC as result of the existence of the lien. In no event is a warehouse operator entitled to satisfy such a lien by sale of the commodities when CCC is the holder of such receipt.

(j) Warehouse receipts representing commodities that have been shipped by rail or by barge, must be accompanied by supplemental certificates completed under paragraph (g) of this section.

(k) If the warehouse issues an EWR for the commodity, the producer must notify the EWR provider to make CCC the holder of the EWR and to secure an affirmation verifying that CCC has been made the holder of the EWR.
