
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart B - Marketing Assistance Loans
####### ยง 1421.111 MAL settlement.

(a) The value of MALs at settlement will be determined by CCC on the following basis:

(1) For nonrecourse MALs, the schedule of premiums and discounts for the commodity, provided that if the value of the eligible delivered collateral at settlement is:

(i) Less than the amount due, the producer will pay to CCC the amount of such deficiency and charges, plus interest on such deficiency; or

(ii) More than the amount due, the amount of such excess will be paid to the producer or, if applicable, to the producer and applicable secured creditors of the producer.

(2) For recourse MALs, full repayment of principal plus interest is required. As specified in ยง 1421.113, recourse MAL collateral may not be delivered or forfeited to CCC in satisfaction of indebtedness.

(3) If CCC sells the commodity described in paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section in settlement of the MAL, the sales proceeds will be applied to the amount owed as follows:

(i) For nonrecourse MALs, CCC will in all instances retain all proceeds obtained from the sale of the eligible commodity and will not make any payment of any amount of such proceeds to any party, including the producer who has satisfied their obligation under the MAL through delivery of the commodity to CCC. CCC will settle with the producer based on the quality and quantity of the commodity; or

(ii) For recourse MALs, the sales proceeds from the eligible collateral will be applied to the amount owed CCC by the producer. The producer will be responsible for any costs incurred by CCC in completing the sale and CCC will deduct the amount of these costs from the sale proceeds. If:

(A) The amount received from the sale of the collateral is less than the amount due, the producer will pay to CCC the amount of such deficiency and costs, plus interest on the remaining amount owed; or

(B) The amount received from the sale of the collateral is greater than the sum of the amount due, the amount of such excess will be paid to the producer or, if applicable, to the producer and applicable secured creditor of the producer.

(b) Settlements made by CCC for eligible commodities that are acquired by CCC and that are stored in an authorized warehouse will be made on the basis of the entries in the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents.

(1) All eligible commodities that are stored in other than authorized warehouses must be delivered to CCC as CCC instructs. Settlement will be based on entries in the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents.

(2) For eligible loan commodities that are delivered from other than an authorized warehouse, settlement will be made by CCC on the basis of the basic MAL rate that is in effect for the commodity at the producer's customary delivery point, as determined by CCC.

(c) Settlements made by CCC for peanuts acquired by CCC and stored in an authorized warehouse will be based on the settlement value at the time of the loan disbursement and the entries in the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents subject to adjustments for changes in quality and other factors.

(1) All eligible commodities that are stored in other than authorized warehouses will be delivered to CCC as CCC instructs. Settlement will be based on entries in the applicable warehouse receipt, supplemental certificate, and accompanying documents.

(2) For eligible loan commodities that are delivered from other than an authorized warehouse, settlement shall be made by CCC on the basis of the basic marketing assistance loan rate that is in effect for the commodity at the producer's customary delivery point, as determined by CCC.

(d) For peanuts forfeited to CCC, the Secretary will pay reasonable storage, handling, and other associated costs for all peanuts pledged as collateral that are forfeited under this section.

(e) In all cases, settlements may be adjusted for changes in quality and other factors affecting the value of the commodity.

(f) Premiums and discounts will apply to all eligible loan commodities that are forfeited and delivered to CCC. There will not be any additional adjustments for peanuts at settlement, because such premiums and discounts will be accounted for when a peanut MAL is made.

(g) If a deficiency exists after the collateral securing a nonrecourse MAL has been delivered to CCC or a recourse MAL sold under a local sale, a receivable for such deficiency will be established as specified in part 1403 of this chapter.

(h) CCC will not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the loan collateral for any farm-stored MALs.
