
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart C - Loan Deficiency Payments
####### ยง 1421.200 Applicability.

(a) During the MAL availability period, LDPs will be made available to eligible producers when the alternative repayment rate is less than the applicable county loan rate.

(b) To be eligible to receive LDPs a producer must:

(1) Comply with all MAL eligibility including beneficial interest requirements.

(2) Agree to forgo obtaining such MAL, if applicable; and

(3) File in person, by mail or electronically a request for payment on a form prescribed by CCC; and

(4) Otherwise comply with all program requirements.

(c)(1) A producer must submit to the FSA Service Center a completed request for a LDP on forms prescribed by CCC. This submission must be received on or before the date beneficial interest is lost in the commodity and before the final loan availability date for the commodity. Such completed and submitted forms indicate the producer's intentions and further provide the terms and conditions of the LDP program. If all or any of the provisions of this paragraph are not met by the producer, the producer may not obtain the LDP benefit.

(2) With respect to a request for a LDP for unshorn pelts, a completed request for such a payment must be submitted on or before the earlier of the date of slaughter of the lamb or the loss of beneficial interest in the lamb or the unshorn pelt produced from the lamb. In addition, the lamb must have been owned for not less than 30 days prior to the date such application is filed with CCC and must have been slaughtered for personal use, or sold for slaughter and slaughtered within 10 calendar days after the sale.

(d) For unshorn pelts, the lamb must be owned for a period of not less than 30 days in advance of the application and sold for immediate slaughter or slaughtered for personal use. Producers must submit acceptable production evidence to CCC under ยง 1421.12 at the time of request. Producers who do not sell lambs for immediate slaughter are ineligible for a LDP.

(e) AGI requirements apply as specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
