
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart C - Loan Deficiency Payments
####### ยง 1421.203 Personal liability of the producer.

(a) When a producer requests a LDP, the producer agrees:

(1) When signing the LDP Agreement and Request, as applicable, that the producer will not provide an incorrect certification of the quantity or make any fraudulent representation, that CCC will rely upon when determining eligibility for a LDP; and

(2) That violation of the terms and conditions of the LDP request, as applicable, will cause harm or damage to CCC in that funds may be disbursed to the producer for a quantity of a commodity that is not actually in existence or for a quantity on which the producer is not eligible. If CCC determines that the producer has violated the terms and conditions of the applicable forms prescribed by CCC, liquidated damages will be assessed on the quantity of the commodity that is involved in the violation.

(b) Liquidated damages assessed in accordance with this section will be determined by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 10 percent of the LDP.

(c) If CCC determines that the producer:

(1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed according to paragraph (b) of this section and the producer must repay the LDP applicable to the loan deficiency quantity involved in the violation and charges, plus interest applicable to the amount repaid. If the producer fails to pay such amount within 30 days from the date of notification the producer must repay the entire LDP and any other charges plus interest.

(2) Did not act in good faith when the violation was committed, liquidated damages will be assessed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and the producer shall repay the entire LDP and any other charges plus interest.

(d) CCC may waive the liquidated damages assessed according to paragraph (b) of this section if the CCC determines that the violation occurred inadvertently, accidentally, or unintentionally.

(e) If, for any violation to which paragraph (b) of this section applies, the county committee determines that CCC's interest is not or will not be protected, the county committee will:

(1) Accelerate the maturity date on the producer's outstanding farm-stored MALs;

(2) Deny future farm-stored MALs for the current and 2 following crop years;

(3) Deny LDPs for the current and 2 following crop years unless production evidence is presented to CCC. Depending on the severity of the violation, the county committee may deny future farm-stored MALs and LDPs without production evidence.

(f) If the county committee determines that the producer has committed a violation, the county committee will notify the producer in writing that:

(1) The producer has 30 calendar days to provide sufficient evidence and information regarding the circumstances that caused the violation, to the county committee; and

(2) Administrative action will be taken under this section.

(g) If the amount disbursed under LDPs exceeds the amount authorized by this part, the producer is liable for repayment of such excess and liquidated damages, plus interest.

(h) In the case of joint LDPs, the personal liability for the amounts specified in this section is joint and several on the part of each producer signing the LDP application.

(i) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section may be waived as determined by CCC.
