
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart D - Grazing Payments for Wheat, Barley, Oats, and Triticale
####### ยง 1421.301 Administration.

(a) This subpart will be administered by the FSA under the general direction and supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC or designee. The program will be carried out in the field by State and county FSA employees under the general direction and supervision of the State and county FSA committees.

(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations in this part, as amended or supplemented.

(c) The State committee will take any action required by this part which has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee which is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; or

(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action which is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.

(d) No delegation herein to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (DAFP), FSA, may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where timeliness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the program. In addition, DAFP may establish other conditions for payments that will assist in achieving the goals of the program and may include such provisions in the program agreement or other program documents.
