
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart D - Grazing Payments for Wheat, Barley, Oats, and Triticale
####### ยง 1421.303 Time and method for application.

(a) Application for the program provided in this subpart must be received, at the FSA county office that is responsible for administering programs for the farm, no earlier than the date on which eligible crops would normally be harvested and no later than the final loan availability date as determined in accordance with ยง 1421.5.

(b) The application must describe the land to be grazed and, in accordance with standards set by CCC, the tract or field location.

(c) The COC will determine the first harvest date, taking into account the date on which such crops are normally harvested locally for any purpose.

(d) Where multiple producers are involved, the application must specify each producer's share in the crop.

(1) A producer may only receive payments under this subpart that are commensurate with that producer's share in the crop as specified on the application.

(2) Should a person who is entitled to receive a payment under this subpart die, that payment, as earned, may be made to other persons as provided for in the rules specified in part 707 of this title.

(3) Third parties may also receive payments to the extent provided for in part 707 of this title for other situations involving an incapacitation of the producer.

(e) Refusals to allow CCC to verify information on any application or report used for this subpart can result in program ineligibility and producers must provide CCC, FSA, and its agent access to the property involved and to all records as may be relevant to the making of payments under this subpart.

(f) False statements will disqualify the producer from the program and may be subject to other sanctions including criminal sanctions.
