
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart D - Grazing Payments for Wheat, Barley, Oats, and Triticale
####### ยง 1421.306 Refunds; joint and several liability.

(a) In the event there is a failure to comply with any term, requirement, or condition for payment arising under this application, of this subpart, and if any refund of a payment to CCC becomes due for that or other reason in connection with the application, of this subpart, all payments made under this subpart to any producer are to be refunded to CCC together with interest as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and late-payment charges as provided for in part 1402 of this chapter.

(b) All persons listed on an application are jointly and severally liable for any refund due in connection with that application and for any related charges which may be determined to be due for any reason.

(c) Interest is applicable to refunds required from the producer. Interest will be charged at the rate of interest which the United States Treasury charges CCC for funds, as of the date CCC made such benefits available. Interest will accrue from the date such benefits were made available to the date of repayment but the interest rate will increase to reflect any increase in the rate charged to CCC by Treasury for any percent of time for which the interest assessment is collected. CCC may waive the accrual of interest if CCC determines that the cause of the erroneous determination was not due to any action of the producer.

(d) Late payment interest will be assessed on refunds in accordance with the provisions of, and subject to the rates in part 1403 of this chapter.

(e) Producers must refund to CCC any excess payments made by CCC with respect to any application in which they have an interest. Such refund will be subject to interest at the same rate that applies to other refunds.
