
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart E - Designated Marketing Associations for Peanuts
####### ยง 1421.403 DMA approval.

(a) Entities wishing to apply to be a DMA enabled to perform MAL and LDP functions under this part for peanuts must submit an application for such approval to FSA in a form approved by CCC. That application will include the following:

(1) Two originals of a properly executed Designated Marketing Association agreement containing the terms and conditions prescribed by CCC.

(2) A financial statement of not less than 1 year old on the date submitted, including accompanying notes, schedules, or exhibits, certified by a certified public accountant as fairly representing the entity's financial condition.

(3) The entity's tax identification number.

(4) A copy of any applicable incorporating or partnership documents.

(5) The applicant entity's mailing address, electronic mail address, and telephone number and facsimile number.

(6) Any and all information requested by CCC regarding the DMAs materials, and equipment as CCC determines is necessary for the applicant to perform the services for which the approval to perform is sought.

(7) A narrative explaining how the proposed DMA entity or parent entity provides marketing services to peanut producers.

(8) Any additional information or financial security requested by the Agency.

(b) Applicants are responsible for notifying FSA when any changes occur to their operations requiring amendments to their application or supporting documents.
