
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1421 - GRAINS AND SIMILARLY HANDLED COMMODITIES - MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS
###### Subpart E - Designated Marketing Associations for Peanuts
####### ยง 1421.408 Prohibited activity.

(a) DMAs approved to handle MALs and LDPs under this subpart may not:

(1) Discriminate against or deny any producer from receiving MALs or LDPs because of race, color, national origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, and marital or family status for which they would otherwise be eligible under the statutes regulating the MAL and LDP program.

(2) Pool peanuts for the purpose of obtaining peanut MALs or LDPs from CCC.

(3) Pool the proceeds obtained from peanut MALs or LDPs made by CCC.

(4) Process farm-stored certified or measured MALs or LDPs unless authorized by CCC.

(5) Take title to any peanuts.

(6) Operate the DMA under the same entity and tax identification number of a CCC-approved CMA.

(7) Refuse services to producers because the DMA was not granted a power of attorney for purposes of executing MAL documents to obtain MALs for the producer, repaying the MAL for the producer, obtaining LDPs for the producer, or marketing the producer's peanuts.

(8) Adopt any scheme or device to circumvent the purpose of the peanut MAL and LDP program regulations, the regulation governing DMAs, or the DMAs agreement with CCC.

(9) Process MALs or LDPs for producers involved in a bankruptcy proceeding unless authorized by CCC.

(10) Process MALs or LDPs on ineligible peanuts.

(b) If the prohibitions of this section are violated FSA or CCC may take one or more of the actions authorized in this part or otherwise authorized.
