
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 28 - COTTON CLASSING, TESTING, AND STANDARDS
###### Subpart A - Requirements Under the United States Cotton Standards Act
####### practical forms of cotton standards
######## ยง 28.107 Original cotton standards and reserve sets.

(a) The containers of the original Universal Standards and other official cotton standards of the United States currently adopted, whenever such official standards are represented by practical forms, shall be marked as prescribed in the order or orders of their establishment, and shall be wrapped and sealed. After being so marked, wrapped and sealed, they shall be held in secure storage in the custody of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Director may authorize the temporary removal of such containers from storage and the transporting of the containers to other locations for purposes of Universal Cotton Standards Conferences and other purposes as deemed necessary by the Director. Such containers shall remain in the control and custody of the Director until the original standards contained therein are superseded by new or revised standards.

(b) At each Universal Cotton Standards Conference held for approving key copies of the Universal Standards there shall be prepared two full sets of practical forms of copies of such standards, which shall be known as "Reserve Sets" and which, upon the certification and recommendation of qualified experts, shall be certified by such experts as true copies of the currently adopted standards as and when established. Such reserve sets shall be enclosed in metal-lined cases and sealed in the presence of a special committee duly authorized by the Director and composed of representatives from the associations attending the conference and the Department. The special committee shall deposit the set designated as the First Reserve Set in a vault in a bank in Memphis, Tenn. The Division shall keep the set designated as the Second Reserve Set in secure storage. These reserve sets shall remain sealed and deposited until such time as they shall be required for examination and use as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) At the beginning of the next Universal Cotton Standards Conference, a special committee duly authorized by the Director and composed of representatives from the associations attending the conference and the Department shall deliver the First Reserve Set from its storage place to the site of the conference. This special committee shall witness the opening of the First Reserve Set for display at the conference. The Director shall arrange for removal of the Second Reserve Set from its storage place and for the transport of such set to the site of the conference. If upon examination of the First Reserve Set by representatives at the conference it should appear that such set has undergone any substantial change, the Second Reserve Set shall be opened and used in its stead.

(d) The First Reserve Set of each conference or the Second Reserve Set, if it has been used in place of the First Reserve Set, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section shall be retained by the Division until the currently adopted standards which they represent have been superseded by new or revised standards.
