
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1425 - COOPERATIVE MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS
###### ยง 1425.7 Suspension and termination of approval.

(a) CCC may suspend a CMA from obtaining MALs and LDPs when CCC determines the CMA has violated any of its agreements with CCC or the CMA has not:

(1) Operated according to the CMA's application for approval or its last recertification submission;

(2) Complied with applicable regulations; or

(3) Corrected deficiencies of the CMA's operation as noted by CCC.

(b) A suspension may be lifted when CCC determines the CMA has complied with all requirements for approval. When suspensions are not lifted within 1 year, or a shorter time period if so indicated in CCC's suspension notification, the CMA's approval automatically terminates.

(c) CCC may terminate a CMA's approval by giving the CMA written notice of the termination.

(d) If a CMA does not have any MALs outstanding, it may voluntarily terminate its participation in the MAL and LDP program through written notice to CCC.

(e) CCC may, on demand, call all outstanding CCC loans made to a suspended or terminated CMA. When loans are called, CCC will provide at least 10 calendar days written notice to the CMA. Commodities pledged as collateral for loans must be repaid by the date specified by CCC. If redemption is not made by the date specified, title to the commodity will vest in CCC and CCC will have no obligation to pay the commodity's market value above the principal amount of such loans.
