
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1427 - COTTON
###### Subpart A - Nonrecourse Cotton Loan and Loan Deficiency Payments
####### ยง 1427.2 Administration.

(a) The MAL and LDP Programs will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee and will be carried out by FSA employees, and state and county committees.

(b) No FSA employee or committee may modify or waive any requirement in this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) The State committee will take any required action not taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require a correction of an action that is not in compliance with this part; or

(2) Stop an employee from taking an action or decision that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.

(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee may determine any question arising under these programs, and reverse or modify a determination made by an FSA employee or State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State or county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other program requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the MAL and LDP Programs.

(f) A representative of CCC may execute MAL and LDP applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any document not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, shall be null and void.
