
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1427 - COTTON
###### Subpart A - Nonrecourse Cotton Loan and Loan Deficiency Payments
####### ยง 1427.15 Special procedure where funds are advanced.

(a) The special procedure in this section is provided to assist persons or firms that, in the course of their regular business of handling cotton for producers, have made advances to eligible producers on cotton eligible to be pledged as collateral for a MAL or to receive an LDP. A person, firm, or financial institution that has made advances to eligible producers on eligible cotton may also obtain reimbursement for the amounts advanced under this procedure.

(b) This special procedure will apply only:

(1) If such person or firm is entitled to reimbursement from the proceeds of the MALs or LDPs for the amounts advanced and has been authorized by the producer to deliver the loan or LDP documents to a FSA county office for disbursement of the loans or LDPs; and

(2) To MAL or LDP documents covering cotton on which a person or firm has advanced to the producers, including payments to prior lienholders and other creditors, the note amounts shown on the Form A loan documents, except for:

(i) Authorized cotton clerk fees;

(ii) The research and promotion fee to be collected for transmission to the Cotton Board by CCC; and

(iii) CCC loan service charges.

(c)(1) All MAL or LDP documents will be mailed, sent electronically, or delivered to the appropriate FSA county office and will show the entire proceeds of the MALs or LDPs, except for CCC loan service charges and research and promotion fees, for disbursement to:

(i) The financial institution which is to allow credit to the person or firm which made the loan or LDP advances or to such financial institution and such person or firm as joint payees; or

(ii) The person, firm, or financial institution which made the MAL or LDP advances to the producers.

(2) The documents will be accompanied by a Transmittal Schedule of Loan and LDP Documents (Transmittal) on a form prescribed by CCC, in original and two copies, numbered serially for each FSA county office by the person, firm, or financial institution that made the MAL or LDP advance. The Transmittal will show the amounts invested by the person, firm, or financial institution in the MALs or LDPs.

(3) Upon receipt of the MAL or LDP documents and Transmittal, the FSA county office will stamp one copy of the Transmittal to indicate receipt of the documents and return this copy to the person, firm, or financial institution.

(d) The person, firm, or financial institution will be deemed to have invested funds in the loans or LDP as of the date MAL or LDP documents acceptable to CCC were delivered to a FSA county office or, if received by mail, the date of mailing as indicated by postmark or the date of receipt in a FSA county office if no postmark date is shown. Patron postage meter date stamp will not be recognized as a postmark date.

(e) Interest will be computed on the total amount invested by the person, firm, or financial institution in the MAL or LDP represented by accepted documents from and including the date of investment of funds by the person, firm, or financial institution to, but not including, the date of disbursement by CCC.

(1) Interest will be paid at the rate in effect for CCC loans as provided in part 1405 of this chapter.

(2) Interest earned by the person, firm, or financial institution on the investment in loans disbursed during a month will be paid by CCC after the end of the month.
