
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1427 - COTTON
###### Subpart D - Recourse Seed Cotton Loans
####### ยง 1427.161 Administration.

(a) The Recourse Seed Cotton Loan Program that is applicable to a crop of cotton will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee and will be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees.

(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this subpart.

(c) The State committee will take any action required by these regulations which has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, an action taken by such county committee which is not under the regulations of this subpart; or

(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action which is not under the regulations of this subpart.

(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC (Administrator, FSA), or a designee from determining any question arising under the recourse seed cotton program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by the State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator, FSA, may authorize waiver or modification of deadlines and other program requirements where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the recourse seed cotton loan program.

(f) A representative of CCC may execute loan applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any such document which is not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void.
