
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1427 - COTTON
###### Subpart D - Recourse Seed Cotton Loans
####### ยง 1427.160 Applicability.

(a) This subpart is applicable to crops of upland and extra long staple seed cotton and as otherwise determined appropriate by the Deputy Administrator. This subpart specifies the terms and conditions under which recourse seed cotton loans will be made available by CCC. Such loans will be available through March 31 of the year following the calendar year in which such crop is normally harvested. CCC may change the loan availability period to conform to State or locally imposed quarantines. Additional terms and conditions are in the note and security agreement that must be executed by a producer in order to receive such loans.

(b) Loan rates and the forms that are used in administering the recourse seed cotton loan program for a crop of cotton are available in FSA State and county offices. Loan rates will be based on the base quality loan rate for upland cotton and the national average loan rate for extra long staple cotton.

(c) A producer must, unless otherwise authorized by CCC, request the loan at the FSA county office that, under part 718 of this title, is responsible for administering programs for the farm on which the cotton was produced. All note and security agreements and related documents necessary for the administration of the recourse seed cotton loan program will be prescribed by CCC and will be available at FSA State and county offices.

(d) Loans will not be available for seed cotton produced on land owned or otherwise in the possession of the United States if such land is occupied without the consent of the United States.
