
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 28 - COTTON CLASSING, TESTING, AND STANDARDS
###### Subpart A - Requirements Under the United States Cotton Standards Act
####### fees and costs
######## ยง 28.116 Amounts of fees for classification; exemption.
######### Allowance for bad debt rate.

(iii)Total AMS grading or classification program allowance for bad debt divided by total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked.

(3) The calendar year cost of living expenses and percentage of inflation factors used in the formulas in this section are based on the most current Office of Management and Budget's Presidential Economic Assumptions.

(b) When a comparison is requested of any samples with a type or with other samples, the fees prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to every sample involved, including each of the samples of which the type is composed.

(c) An additional fee based on current shipping rates shall be assessed for returning samples unless the request for service is so worded that the samples become government property immediately after classification.

(d) For any review of classification or comparison of any cotton, the fees prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section shall apply. The additional fee prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section is not applicable to review of classification if made on the same sample as the original class or comparison.
