
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1427 - COTTON
###### Subpart E - Standards for Approval of Warehouses for Cotton and Cotton Linters
####### ยง 1427.1081 General statement and administration.

(a) This subpart prescribes the requirements which must be met and the procedures which must be followed by a warehouseman in the United States or Puerto Rico who desires the approval by the Commodity Credit Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "CCC") of warehouse(s) for the storage and handling of cotton and cotton linters, under a Cotton Storage Agreement, which are owned by CCC or held by CCC as security for price support loans. This subpart is not applicable to cotton or cotton linters purchased in storage for prompt shipment or to handling operations of a temporary nature.

(b) Copies of the CCC storage agreement and forms required for obtaining approval under this subpart may be obtained from the Kansas City Commodity Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, Missouri 64141 (hereinafter referred to as the "KCCO").

(c) A warehouse must be approved by the KCCO and a storage agreement must be in effect between CCC and the warehouseman before CCC will use such warehouse. The approval of a warehouse or the entering into of a storage agreement does not constitute a commitment that CCC will use the warehouse, and no official or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture is authorized to make any such commitment.

(d) A warehouseman, when applying for approval under this subpart must submit to CCC at KCCO:

(1) A completed "Application for Approval of Warehouse for Storage of Cotton and/or Cotton Linters,"

(2) A current financial statement on a "Financial Statement" form, supported by such supplemental schedules as CCC may request. Financial statements may be submitted on forms other than a "Financial Statement" form with approval of the Director, KCCO, or the Director's designee. Financial statements must show the financial condition of the warehouseman as of a date no earlier than 90 days prior to the date of the warehouseman's application, or such other date as CCC may prescribe. Additional financial statements must be furnished annually and at such other times as CCC may require. CCC also may require that financial statements prepared by the warehouseman or by a public accountant be examined by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Only one financial statement is required for a chain of warehouses owned or operated by a single business entity. If approved by the Director, KCCO, or the Director's designee, the financial statement of a parent company, which includes the financial position of a wholly-owned subsidiary, may be used to meet the CCC standards for approval for the wholly-owned subsidiary.

(3) Evidence that the warehouseman is licensed by the appropriate licensing authority as required under ยง 1427.1082(a)(2) and such other documents or information as CCC may require,

(4) For warehouseman not operating under the U.S. Warehouse Act, a sample copy of the warehouseman's receipts and bale tags, and

(5) Evidence of applicable fire insurance rates.
