
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1430 - DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Margin Protection Program for Dairy Producers
####### ยง 1430.101 Administration.

(a) MPP-Dairy is administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, and will be carried out by Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees and employees.

(b) State and county committees and their employees may not waive or modify any requirement of this subpart.

(c) The State committee will take any action required when not taken by the county committee, require correction of actions not in compliance, or require the withholding of any action that is not in compliance with this subpart.

(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, may determine any question arising under MPP-Dairy or reverse or modify any decision of the State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, may waive or modify MPP-Dairy requirements not statutorily required when failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect the operation of MPP-Dairy.

(f) A representative of CCC will execute a contract for registration in MPP-Dairy and related documents under the terms and conditions determined and announced by the Deputy Administrator on behalf of CCC. Any document not under such terms and conditions, including any execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void.
