
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1430 - DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart B - Milk Income Loss Contract Program
####### ยง 1430.201 Administration.

(a) This program is administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, and shall be carried out by Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees and employees.

(b) State and county committees, and their employees may not waive or modify any requirement of this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) The State committee shall take any action required when not taken by the county committee, require correction of actions not in compliance, or require the withholding of any action that is not in compliance with this subpart.

(d) The Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, may determine any question arising under the program or reverse or modify any decision of the State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, may waive or modify program requirements where failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the Milk Income Loss Contract Program.

(f) A representative of CCC may execute Milk Income Loss Contracts and related documents under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any document not under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, shall be null and void.
