
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1430 - DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart B - Milk Income Loss Contract Program
####### ยง 1430.205 Selection of starting month.

(a) A dairy operation that enters into a MILC contract with CCC must designate the starting month for each fiscal year for the calculation of payments and pound limits for the operation. Once a start month is chosen for a fiscal year the corresponding month will be the start month for each subsequent fiscal year unless changed by an affirmative request in writing on a form approved by CCC. The production start month must be selected on or before the 14th of the month before the month for which payment is sought. If such date falls on a weekend, the start month selection must be made on the last business day preceding the weekend. A dairy operation cannot select as the start month for payment a month which:

(1) Has already begun, except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;

(2) Has already passed; or

(3) During which no milk production was produced by the dairy operation.

(b) For FY 2009, if the operation signs its FY 2008 through 2012 MILC contract within 30 days of the beginning of the application period it can pick any preceding FY 2009 month as its start month for that period or can use the normal rule of paragraph (c) of this section to pick the start month.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the start month for a fiscal year may only be

(1) For the fiscal year in which the contract is submitted, the month the contract is submitted or

(2) For a fiscal year that has not yet begun, any month, provided that a month may not be selected after the 14th of the preceding month.

(d) Dairy operations may change the production start month on or before the 14th day of the month previously selected.

(e) If a change of the production starting month is not made by the dates required by paragraph (d) of this section, the MILC production starting month cannot be changed until the next fiscal year. If the selected MILC production starting month is never modified, it will remain the same throughout the duration of the contract.

(f) MILC payments will be made consecutively to the dairy operation on a monthly basis after the production starting month has been designated until the earlier of the following:

(1) Payment quantity is reached in accordance with ยง 1430.207; or

(2) The end of the applicable fiscal year.

(g)(1) MILC production start month selections made during the signup period designated by CCC may be made as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, otherwise MILC production start month selections must be made in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If a payment rate is not in effect during the production start month selected by the dairy operation, payments to the dairy operation will be issued based on the next consecutive month with a payment rate in effect following the MILC production start month selected by the dairy operation. Production in months in which the pay formula does not produce a payment will not count against the fiscal year's poundage limit for the operation.

(2) Dairy operations with MILC production start months that begin with the month a MILC contract is submitted to FSA or that begin with the first month of the fiscal year with an effective payment rate will receive payments made by CCC consecutively on a monthly basis, if otherwise provided for in this part, until the earlier of the following:

(i) The maximum payment quantity for the fiscal year or month is reached as determined in accordance with ยง 1430.207 or

(ii) The end of the applicable fiscal year.

(h) All producers involved in the dairy operation must agree to the month designated. The dairy operation assumes the risk of not reaching the maximum payment quantity based on the month selected by the dairy operation. Payments will not be issued for past months for the sole purpose of reaching the maximum payment quantity.
