
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1430 - DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart B - Milk Income Loss Contract Program
####### ยง 1430.208 Payment rate and dairy operation payment.

(a) Payments under this subpart may be made to dairy operations when the Boston Class I milk price under the applicable Federal milk marketing order is below $16.94 per cwt. No payments will be made to dairy operations for marketings during the months that the Boston Class I milk price under the applicable milk marketing order is equal to or exceeds $16.94.

(b) A per-hundredweight payment rate will be determined for the applicable month by:

(1) Subtracting from $16.94 the Class I milk price per cwt. in Boston;

(2) Multiplying the difference by 34 percent for marketings during the period beginning on October 1, 2007, and ending on September 30, 2008;

(3) Multiplying the difference by 45 percent for marketings during the period beginning on October 1, 2008, and ending on August 31, 2012; and

(4) Multiplying the difference by 34 percent for marketings in September 2012.

(c) The payment rate as calculated as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, will be adjusted to compensate for feed prices when the National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost for a month is greater than the levels set in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost per cwt. for each month will be calculated using the same procedures used to calculate the feed components of the estimated price of 16 percent Mixed Dairy Feed per pound noted on page 33 of the USDA monthly Agricultural Prices publication (including the data and factors noted in footnote 4). The payment rate adjustment for Entire Month feed prices will be determined by increasing $16.94 by the percentage that is 45 percent of the percentage by which the National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost exceeds $7.35 per cwt. (except that $7.35 will be $9.50 for September 2012 marketings.)

(d) Each eligible dairy operation payment will be calculated, as determined by the Secretary, by:

(1) Converting whole pounds of milk to hundredweight and

(2) Multiplying the payment rate determined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by the quantity of eligible production marketed by the operation during the applicable month as determined according to ยง 1430.205 and other provisions of this subpart.

(3) Payments to dairy operations will be based on calculated payment rates rounded seven places to the right of the decimal.

(e) Payments under this subpart may be made to a dairy operation only up to the maximum production limitations set in ยง 1430.207(b) of eligible production per applicable fiscal year.

(f) Dairy operations receiving benefits under this subpart, will receive earned payments on a monthly basis according to the MILC contract, to the extent practicable, not later than 60 days after the later of production evidence and all supporting documents for the applicable month are received by CCC or the entire month National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost is made available by USDA, as applicable. Payments issued by CCC more than 60 days after the later of all production evidence and supporting documentation are received by CCC or the entire month National Average Dairy Feed Ration Cost is made available by USDA, whichever is later, will be subject to prompt payment interest as allowed by law. However, CCC will endeavor where possible to make payments within 60 days of the end of the marketing month.
