
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1430 - DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart B - Milk Income Loss Contract Program
####### ยง 1430.214 Violations.

(a) If producers in a dairy operation violates the MILC or the requirements of this subpart, CCC may:

(1) Terminate the MILC for the remainder of the fiscal year in which the violation occurs, and allow the producer to retain any payments received under the contract; or

(2) Allow the MILC to remain in effect and require the producer to repay a portion of the payments received commensurate with the violation's severity, as CCC determines.

(3) If the MILC is terminated under this section, the participant shall forfeit all rights to further MILC benefits and shall refund all or part of the payments received as CCC determines appropriate.

(4) A producer or operation with a violation, as determined by CCC, shall refund all MILC funds disbursed under of this part. The remedies provided in this subpart shall be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies which may apply.

(b) A MILC is violated by the following actions:

(1) Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the MILC and addendum;

(2) Reconstitutions of the dairy operation for the sole purpose of receiving multiple program benefits;

(3) Failure to comply with highly erodible land conservation and wetland provisions of this 7 CFR part 12 or their successor regulations;

(4) Failure to meet the definition of a dairy operation according to ยง 1430.202;

(5) Any action that tends to defeat the purpose of the program, as CCC determines.

(c) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (DAFP) of the Farm Service Agency may terminate any MILC by mutual agreement upon request of the participant if DAFP determines that termination is in the best interest of the public.

(d) The DAFP may determine that failure of the dairy operation to perform the MILC does not warrant termination and may require the participant to refund part of the payments received or accept adjustments in the payment as the DAFP determines to be appropriate.
