
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1434 - NONRECOURSE MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS FOR HONEY
###### ยง 1434.2 Administration.

(a) The regulations of this part will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, and are carried out in the field by Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees.

(b) State and county committees, representatives and employees thereof, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part.

(c) The State committee will take any action required by the regulations of this part that has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; or

(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.

(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where timeliness or failure to meet such other requirements does not affect adversely the operation of the program.

(f) An approving official of CCC may execute loans and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any such document that is not executed in accordance with such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the date authorized by CCC, will be null and void unless affirmed by the Executive Vice President, CCC.
