
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1434 - NONRECOURSE MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS FOR HONEY
###### ยง 1434.8 Containers and drums.

(a)(1) To be eligible for assistance under this part, honey must be packed in:

(i) CCC-approved, 5-gallon plastic containers;

(ii) 5-gallon metal containers;

(iii) Steel drums with a capacity not less than 5 gallons nor greater than 70 gallons, or

(iv) Plastic Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBC's).

(2) Honey stored in plastic containers must be determined safe and secure from all possibility of contamination.

(3) Honey storage containers used for these purposes must meet requirements of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended and other specified requirements, as determined by CCC and must be generally fit for the purpose for which they are to be used.

(4) CCC-approved 5-gallon plastic containers must hold approximately 60 pounds of honey. The containers must be free and clear of leakage and punctures and of suitable purity for food contact use and meet food storage standards as provided by CCC. Plastic containers must be new or previously used only to store honey. Plastic containers previously used to store chemicals, pesticides, or any other product or substance other than honey are ineligible for honey storage. The handle of each container must be firm and strong enough to permit carrying the filled container. The cover opening must not be damaged in any way that will prevent a tight seal. Containers that have been punctured and resealed will not be acceptable;

(5) The 5-gallon metal containers must hold approximately 60 pounds of honey, and must be new, clean, sound, uncased, and free from appreciable dents and rusts. The handle of each container must be firm and strong enough to permit carrying the filled container. The cover and container opening must not be damaged in any way that will prevent a tight seal. Containers that are punctured or have been punctured and resealed by soldering will not be acceptable; and

(6) The steel drums must be an open type and filled no closer than 2 inches from the top of the drums. Drums must be new or must be used drums that have been reconditioned inside and outside. Drums must be clean, treated inside and outside to prevent rusting, fitted with gaskets that provide a tight seal and have an inside coating suitable for honey storage.

(7) IBC's are bulk containers with a polyethylene inner bottle and a galvanized steel protective cage, a capacity of either 275 or 330 gallons, and are reusable. IBC's must be clean, sound and provide a tight seal.

(b) Honey is not be eligible to be pledged as collateral for loans if such honey is stored in:

(1) 55-gallon steel drums having a tare weight less than 38 pounds, 30-gallon steel drums having a tare weight less than 26 pounds, or drums having removable liners of polyethylene or other materials;

(2) Bung-type drums;

(3) Bulk tanks;

(4) Containers that do not meet the specified requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or other CCC specifications or requirements.

(5) Steel drums that are severely enough dented as to cause damage to their lining, improper seal, or stacking capabilities; and

(6) Rusted drums with corroded areas.
