
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1434 - NONRECOURSE MARKETING ASSISTANCE LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS FOR HONEY
###### ยง 1434.16 Release of the honey pledged as collateral for a MAL.

(a)(1) A producer may not move or dispose of any honey pledged as collateral for a loan until prior written approval for such removal or disposition has been received from the county committee in accordance with this section.

(2) A producer may at any time obtain a release of all or part of the honey remaining as loan collateral by paying to CCC the amount of the loan and any charges that had been made by CCC to the producer with respect to the quantity of the honey released, plus interest.

(3) When the proceeds of a sale of honey are needed to repay all or part of a farm stored MAL, the producer must request and obtain prior written approval of the county office on a form prescribed by CCC in order to remove a specified quantity of the honey from storage. Any such approval will be subject to the terms and conditions in the applicable form, copies of which may be obtained by producers at the county office. Any such approval will not constitute a release of CCC's security interest in the commodity or release the producer from liability for any amounts due and owing to CCC with respect to any MAL indebtedness if full payment of such amounts is not received by the county office.

(b) The note and security agreement will not be released until all loan liability has been satisfied in full.

(c) After satisfaction of a MAL, CCC will release CCC's security interest in the honey at the producer's request. The producer is responsible for payment of any fee for such release if such fee can be determined.
