
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 28 - COTTON CLASSING, TESTING, AND STANDARDS
###### Subpart B - Classification for Foreign-Growth Cotton
####### § 28.183 Methods of cotton classification and comparison.

(a) The classification of foreign-growth cotton samples shall be determined by the quality of a sample in accordance with the Universal Cotton Standards (the official cotton standards of the United States) for the color grade and the leaf grade of Upland Cotton, the length of staple, and fiber property measurements such as length uniformity, strength, and micronaire. High Volume Instruments will determine all fiber property measurements except the determination of the presence of extraneous matter, special conditions and remarks. High Volume Instrument colorimeter measurements will be used for determining the official color grade. Cotton classers certified by the Cotton and Tobacco Program will determine the presence of extraneous matter, special conditions and remarks and authorized employees of the Cotton and Tobacco Program will determine all fiber property measurements using High Volume Instruments. The classification record issued by the Quality Assurance Division with respect to any cotton sample shall be deemed to be the classification record of the Department.

(b) Additional procedures and methods pertaining to the classification of foreign-growth cotton samples are outlined in §§ 28.36 through 28.40.

(c) When a comparison of such cotton samples with other actual samples or with a type is requested, the procedure and methods shall be as outlined in §§ 28.45 through 28.47.
