
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Sugar Loan Program
####### ยง 1435.104 Loan maintenance.

(a) All processors receiving loans shall:

(1) Abide by the terms and conditions of the loan application, note and security agreement and storage agreement;

(2) Pay interest on the principal at a rate determined in part 1405 of this chapter.

(b) The security interests CCC obtains as a result of the execution of security agreements by sugarcane and sugar beet processors shall be superior to all statutory and common law liens on raw cane sugar, refined beet sugar, and in-process sugar for the producers of sugarcane and sugar beets and all prior recorded and unrecorded liens on the crops of sugarcane and sugar beets from which the sugar was derived.

(c) A processor receiving a loan under this part shall pay all eligible producers who have delivered or will deliver sugar beets or sugarcane to such processors for processing not less than the minimum payment levels CCC specifies for the applicable crop year.

(1) In the case of sugar beets, the minimum payment shall not exceed the rate of payment provided for under the applicable contract between a sugar beet producer and a sugar beet processor.

(2) In the case of sugarcane, CCC will annually determine and announce the annual grower minimum payment.

(3) Processors are ineligible for loans for the crop year following their failure to meet the required minimum grower payment.

(d)(1) A processor shall maintain eligible sugar or in-process sugar of sufficient quality and quantity as collateral to satisfy the processor's loan indebtedness to CCC. CCC shall not assume any loss in quantity or quality of the loan collateral.

(2) The processor is responsible for storage costs through the loan maturity date or title transfer to CCC, whichever occurs later.

(3) Sugar and in-process sugar pledged as loan collateral need not be stored identity preserved.

(4) When the proceeds of the sale of loan collateral are needed to repay all or part of a sugar loan, the processor may request and obtain prior written approval from the loan making office by executing a loan collateral release request, as prescribed by CCC, to remove a specified quantity of the loan collateral from storage for the purpose of delivering it to a buyer before loan repayment. Any such approval shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the applicable form. The loan making office shall not approve such a request unless the buyer of the sugar agrees to pay CCC an amount necessary to satisfy the processor's loan indebtedness regarding collateral being sold. Any such approval shall not:

(i) Constitute a release of CCC's security interest in the loan collateral; or

(ii) Relieve the processor of liability for the full amount of the loan indebtedness, including interest.
