
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1435.4 Administration.

(a) This program shall be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, and may be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees.

(b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, may not modify or waive any of the provisions of part 1435.

(c) The State committee shall take any action required by this part that the county committee has not taken. The State committee shall also:

(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, a county committee action not under this part; or

(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action not under this part.

(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee shall preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any State or county committee determination.

(e) The Deputy Administrator may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such requirements do not adversely affect program operation.

(f) A CCC representative may execute loans and related documents only under the terms and conditions CCC determines and announces. Any such document not executed under such terms and conditions, including any purported execution before the CCC-authorized date, shall be null and void.
