
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Information Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
####### ยง 1435.200 Information reporting.

(a) Every sugar beet processor, sugarcane processor, cane sugar refiner, and importer of sugar, syrup, and molasses shall report, by the 20th of each month, on CCC-required forms, its imports and receipts, processing inputs, production, distribution, stocks, and other information necessary to administer the sugar programs. If the 20th of the month falls on a weekend or a Federal holiday, the report shall be due the next business day.

(b) Any processor must, upon CCC's request, provide such information as CCC deems appropriate for determining regional loan rates.

(c) Any processor must, upon CCC's request, provide such information as CCC deems appropriate for determining whether processors of sugarcane or sugar beets will be able to market their respective sugar allocations.

(d) Each sugarcane producer located in Louisiana shall report, in the manner CCC prescribes, sugarcane yields and sugarcane planted acres.

(e) Importers of sugars, syrups, or molasses to be used for domestic human consumption or to be used for the extraction of sugar for domestic human consumption must report such information as CCC requires, including the quantities of the products imported and the sugar content or equivalent of the products.

(f) The Secretary will collect information on the production, consumption, stocks and trade of sugar in Mexico and publish the data in each edition of the World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report.

(g) The Secretary will collect publicly available information on the production, consumption, and trade of high fructose corn syrup in Mexico and publish the data in each edition of the World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report.

(h) Based on the information received under this subsection, the Secretary shall publish on a monthly basis composite data on sugar production, imports, distribution, and stock levels.

(i) By November 20 of each year, sugar beet processors, sugarcane processors, sugarcane refiners, and importers of sugars, syrups, and molasses, as selected by CCC, will submit to CCC a report, as specified by CCC, from an independent Certified Public Accountant that reviews its information submitted to CCC during the previous October 1 through September 30 period.

(j) The sugar information reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this subpart are administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC.
