
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Sugar Loan Program
####### ยง 1435.103 Availability, disbursement, and maturity of loans.

(a) Before obtaining a loan, a processor must:

(1) File a loan application, as CCC prescribes, no earlier than October 1 and no later than September 30 of the applicable crop year, with the State committee of the State where such processor is headquartered, or with a county committee designated by the State committee.

(2) Execute a note and security agreement, and storage agreement with CCC;

(3) Provide quantity and quality information as prescribed by CCC of the commodity to be pledged as collateral;

(4) Pay CCC a loan service fee, as determined by CCC, for the disbursement of each loan.

(5) If there are any liens or encumbrances on sugar or in-process sugar pledged as loan collateral, obtain waivers that fully protect CCC's interest even though the liens or encumbrances are satisfied from the loan proceeds. No additional liens or encumbrances shall be placed on the sugar after loan approval; and

(6) Agree to reimburse CCC for any costs incurred as a result of the failure of the processor to obtain the waivers specified in subparagraph (5).

(b) No loan proceeds may be disbursed until the sugar and in-process sugar have actually been produced and are otherwise established as being eligible to be pledged as loan collateral.

(c)(1) A processor may, within the loan availability period, repledge as collateral sugar that previously served as loan collateral for a repaid loan. In making application for such a loan, the processor shall:

(i) Specify that the loan collateral should be treated as a quantity of eligible sugar that previously served as loan collateral for a repaid loan; and

(ii) Designate the loan to which the reoffered loan collateral was originally pledged.

(2) The subsequent loan shall have the same maturity date as the original loan.

(3) Loan collateral repledged that was previously redeemed from CCC is not included in determining the total quantity of sugar on which loans have been obtained for purposes of ยง 1435.102.

(d) Raw cane sugar loan disbursements shall be made without regard to the actual polarity or quality factors of the sugar pledged as loan collateral but shall be made on the assumption that the polarity of such sugar is 96 degrees by the polariscope.

(e)(1) Loans will mature at the earlier of:

(i) the end of the 9-month period beginning on the 1st day of the first month after the month in which the loan is made; or

(ii) September 30 following disbursement of the loan.

(2) CCC may accelerate loan maturity dates under ยง 1435.105(h).

(f) Processors receiving loans in July, August, or September may repledge the sugar as collateral for a supplemental loan. Such supplemental loan must:

(1) Be requested by the processor during the following October;

(2) Be made at the loan rate in effect at the time the first loan was made; and

(3) Mature in 9 months less the number of months that the first loan was in effect.
