
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Flexible Marketing Allotments For Sugar
####### ยง 1435.306 Allocation of marketing allotments to processors.

(a) Each sugar beet processor's allocation, other than a new entrant's, of the beet allotment will be calculated as the beet processor's share times the beet sector allotment:

(1) A beet processor's share is calculated as the beet processor's adjusted weighted average sugar production divided by the sum of all beet processors' adjusted weighted average sugar production.

(2) A beet processor's weighted average sugar production equals 0.25 times its 1998-crop sugar production plus 0.35 times its 1999-crop sugar production plus 0.40 times its 2000-crop sugar production, with the 2000 sugar PIK payments added to its 2000-crop sugar production.

(3) A beet processor's weighted average sugar production shall be adjusted by the following, as CCC determines:

(i) Increased 1.25 percent of the sum of all beet processors' weighted average sugar production for opening a sugar beet processing factory during the 1996 through 2000 crop years;

(ii) Decreased 1.25 percent of the sum of beet processors' weighted average sugar production for closing a sugar beet processing factory during the 1998 through 2000 crop years:

(iii) Increased 0.25 percent of the sum of all beet processors' weighted average sugar production for opening a molasses desugarization facility during the 1998 through 2000 crop years; and

(iv) Increased 1.25 percent of the sum of all beet processors' weighted average sugar production for suffering a substantial quality loss on stored beets, as CCC determines, during the 1998 through 2000 crop years.

(b) Each sugarcane processor's, other than a new entrant's, allocation from a State cane sugar allotment will be calculated as the cane processor's share times the State cane sector allotment.

(1) Each cane processor's share will be calculated as the processor's production base divided by the sum of the State's processor production bases.

(2) A processor's production base is the sum of 0.50 times its ability to market plus 0.25 times its past processings plus 0.25 times its past marketings. These weights may be adjusted as CCC deems appropriate for the crop year.

(c) An informal hearing will be held in August of each year, if requested by affected sugarcane processors and growers by July 15th, to afford all interested persons the opportunity to comment on the next crop year's marketing allotments and allocations. After consideration of comments obtained at the hearing, a final determination on cane State allotments and processor allocations will be announced.

(d) During any crop year in which marketing allotments are in effect and allocated to processors, the quantity of sugar and sugar products that a processor markets shall not exceed the quantity of the processor's allocation.

(e) Paragraph (d) of this section will not apply to:

(1) Any sugar marketings to facilitate the export of sugar or sugar-containing products as long as such exports are not eligible to receive credits under reexport programs administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service for refined sugar or sugar-containing products;

(2) Any sugar marketings for nonhuman consumption, except for the sale of sugar for the production of ethanol or other bioenergy under the Feedstock Flexibility program or the sale of sugar for the production of polyhydric alcohol under the Polyhydric Alcohol program administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service; and

(3) Any processor marketings of sugar to another processor made to enable the purchasing processor to fulfill its allocation if such sales;

(i) Are made before May 1, and

(ii) Reported to CCC within 51 days of the date of sale.

(f) Paragraph (d) of this section also shall not apply to marketings of purchased sugar marketed in the crop year of the purchase, but does apply to marketings of sugar purchased as part of a transaction pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(g) Paragraph (d) of this section also will not apply to the marketing of beet sugar processed from purchased in-process beet sugar if the processor purchased the in-process beet sugar before October 1, 2008.

(h) A sugar beet processor allocated a share of the beet sugar allotment may use only beet sugar to fill such allocation. A sugarcane processor allocated a share of the cane sugar allotment may only use cane sugar to fill such allocation.
