
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Flexible Marketing Allotments For Sugar
####### ยง 1435.312 Establishment of acreage bases under proportionate shares.

(a) CCC will establish a sugarcane crop acreage base for each farm subject to proportionate shares as the simple average of the acreage planted and considered planted for harvest for sugar or seed (meaning only those varieties dedicated to the production of sugarcane to produce sugar for human consumption) on the farm in the 2 highest of the 1999 through 2001 crop years. Acreage considered planted shall be determined under ยง 1435.315.

(b) In establishing crop acreage bases, CCC will:

(1) Not consider acreage prevented from planting, and

(2) Consider acreage planted to sugarcane that fails.

(c) In establishing crop acreage bases, CCC will allow producers who have not previously reported their sugarcane acreage to do so by a date CCC determines and announces. Late-filed acreage reports will be accepted as the Deputy Administrator determines appropriate.

(d) The farm's crop acreage base shall be used to determine the farm's proportionate share.

(e) The regulations at part 718 of this title shall apply to this subpart, except reconstitution of farms with a sugar crop acreage base shall not be allowed across State lines.
