
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Flexible Marketing Allotments For Sugar
####### ยง 1435.309 Reassignment of deficits.

(a) CCC will determine, from time to time, whether sugar beet or sugarcane processors will be unable to market their allocations.

(b) Sugar beet and sugar cane processors will report to CCC current inventories, estimated production, expected marketings, and any other pertinent factors CCC deems appropriate to determine a processor's ability to market their allocation.

(c) If CCC determines a sugarcane processor will be unable to market its full allocation for the crop year in which an allotment is in effect, the deficit will be reassigned as follows:

(1) First, to allocations of other sugarcane processors within that State based on each processor's initial allocation share of the State's allotment, but no processor may receive reassigned allocation such that its allocation exceeds its estimated total sugar supply.

(2) If the deficit cannot be eliminated after reassignment within the same State, be reassigned to the other cane States based on each State's initial share of the cane sugar allotment, but no State may receive reassigned State allotment such that its allocation exceeds its estimated total sugar supply, with the reassigned quantity to each State being allocated according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) If the deficit cannot be eliminated by paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, be reassigned to CCC. CCC shall sell such quantity from inventory unless CCC determines such sales would have a significant effect on the sugar price.

(4) If any portion of the deficit remains after paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section have been implemented, be reassigned to imports of raw cane sugar.

(d) The initial estimate of the sugarcane deficit will be reassigned by June 1. CCC will conduct later reassignments if CCC determines, after June 1, that a sugarcane processor will be unable to market its full allocation.

(e) If CCC determines that a sugar beet processor is unable to market its full allocation for the crop year in which an allotment is in effect, the deficit will:

(1) First, be reassigned proportionately to allocations of other sugar beet processors, depending on the capacity of other processors to fill the portion of the deficit to be reassigned to them, accounting for the interests of associated producers.

(2) If the deficit cannot be eliminated by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, be reassigned to CCC. CCC shall sell such quantity from inventory unless CCC determines such sales would have a significant effect on the sugar price.

(3) If any portion of the deficit remains after paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section have been implemented, be reassigned to imports of raw cane sugar.

(f) The crop year allocation of each sugar beet or sugarcane processor who receives a reassignment will be increased accordingly for that year.
