
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1435 - SUGAR PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Flexible Marketing Allotments For Sugar
####### ยง 1435.316 Acreage reports for purposes of proportionate shares.

(a) A report of planted and failed acreage shall be required on farms that produce sugarcane for sugar or seed. Such report shall also specify the total acreage intended for harvest for sugar and seed.

(b) The reports required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be on forms prescribed by CCC and shall be filed annually with the county FSA committee by the applicable final reporting date CCC establishes. The farm operator or farm owner shall file such reports.

(c) Acreage reports will be used to determine compliance with proportionate shares and acreage bases for future proportionate shares.

(d) An acreage report may be accepted after the established date for reporting if physical evidence is still available for inspection that may be used to make a determination relative to:

(1) Existence of the crop;

(2) Use made of the crop;

(3) Lack of crop; or

(4) Disaster condition affecting the crop.

(e) The farm operator shall pay the cost of a farm visit by an authorized FSA employee unless the county FSA committee has determined that failure to report in a timely manner was beyond the producer's control.

(f) The farm operator may revise an acreage report. Revised reports shall be filed in accordance with CCC instructions and shall be accepted at any time if:

(1) Evidence exists for inspection and determination of:

(i) Existence of the crop;

(ii) Use made of the crop;

(iii) Lack of crop; or

(iv) Disaster condition affecting the crops.

(2) The farm has not already been inspected and the acreage already determined or harvesting of sugarcane already begun.

(g) Provisions of part 718 of this chapter will apply for field inspections, tolerance, and variance. Assessments for false acreage reporting will be applied under ยง 1435.318.
