
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1436 - FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOAN PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### ยง 1436.2 Administration.

(a) The Farm Storage Facility Loan Program will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC or designee and will be carried out in the field by FSA State committees, FSA county committees and FSA employees.

(b) FSA State committees, FSA county committees and FSA employees, do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part.

(c) The FSA State committee will take any action required by these regulations that has not been taken by the county committee. The FSA State committee will also:

(1) Correct, or require the FSA county committee to correct, any action taken by such FSA county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; and

(2) Require the FSA county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part.

(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or FSA county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, or the Administrator, FSA, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by the State or FSA county committee.

(e) The Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, FSA, may authorize State and FSA county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not adversely affect the operation of the Farm Storage Facility Loan Program.

(f) A representative of CCC may execute Farm Storage Facility Loan Program applications and related documents only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by CCC. Any such document that is not executed in accordance with such terms and conditions, including any purported execution prior to the date authorized by CCC, will be void.

(g) The purpose of the Farm Storage Facility Loan Program is to provide CCC funded loans for producers of grains, oilseeds, pulse crops, sugar, hay, renewable biomass, fruits and vegetables (including nuts), aquaculture, butter, cheese, eggs, floriculture, honey, hops, maple sap, meat, milk, poultry, rye, yogurt, and other grains and storable commodities, as determined by the Secretary, to construct or upgrade storage and handling facilities for the eligible facility loan commodities they produce.
