
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 28 - COTTON CLASSING, TESTING, AND STANDARDS
###### Subpart C - Standards
####### Official Cotton Standards of the United States for Length of Staple
######## ยง 28.303 Standards for length of staple for American upland cotton.

(a) Effective July 12, 1985, standards for the lengths of staple of American upland cotton shall be measurements as determined by the Suter-Webb Duplex Cotton Fiber Sorter in accordance with the test method prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. Ranges for each official staple length are shown in the table below. Staple standards exceeding 1inches, in graduations of thirty-second inches, will be expressed in increments of .041 inches.

(b) Cotton selected for the preparation of practical forms of staple standards shall, to the extent practicable, measure at the mid-point of the appropriate staple range indicated in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Length measurements shall be performed in accordance with the "Standard Test Method for Length and Length Distribution of Cotton Fibers (Array Method), ANSI/ASTM D 1440-77 (1982), which is incorporated by reference pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(a). This standard test method has been adopted by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and approved as an American National Standard by the American National Standards Institute. It is published in the "Annual Book of ASTM Standards," Part 33, volume 07.02. Copies of the ASTM book and copies of ASTM standard D 1440-77 as a separate publication may be obtained from ASTM, Customer Service, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. A copy of the ASTM standard test method is also on file at the Office of the Federal Register. A notice of any change in the ASTM standard test method cited herein will be published in the
