
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1436 - FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOAN PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### ยง 1436.7 Loan term.

(a) For eligible facility loan commodities other than sugar, the term of the loan will not exceed 12 years, based on the total loan principal and loan request type, from the date a promissory note and security agreement is completed on both the partial and final loan disbursement. As determined by the Deputy Administrator, used equipment FSFLs may have a loan term of 3 or 5 years. The applicant will choose a loan term, based on the loan request type at the time of submitting the loan application and total cost estimates. Available loan terms are 3, 5, 7, 10, or 12 years; available terms for a specific loan will be based on the loan principal and facility or equipment type.

(b) The Deputy Administrator has the discretion and authority to extend loan terms for 1 or 2 years, on a case by case basis. Loan term extensions will only be granted after a written request is received from the producer before loan term expires and when determined appropriate by Deputy Administrator to assist borrowers with additional loan servicing options. Producers and participants who have already agreed to the loan term (maturity date) have no right to an extension of the loan term. The borrower agrees to the loan term through the Promissory Note at the time of distribution. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to exercise discretion to consider an extension will not be considered an adverse decision or a failure to act under any law or regulation and, therefore, is not appealable. Participants are not entitled to extensions or the consideration of a request for extension.

(c) For a sugar-related loan:

(1) CCC, at its discretion, may authorize a maximum loan term of 15 years. The minimum loan term of a sugar-related loan is 7 years.

(2) The loan balance and costs are due at the end of the loan term, which will be established on the date the promissory note and security agreement is executed.
