
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1436 - FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOAN PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### ยง 1436.8 Security for loan.

(a) Except as agreed to by CCC, all loans must be secured by a promissory note and security agreement covering the facility and such other assurances as CCC may demand, subject to the following:

(1) The promissory note and security agreement must grant CCC a security interest in the collateral and must be perfected in the manner specified in the laws of the State where the collateral is located.

(2) CCC's security interest in the collateral must be the sole security interest in such collateral except for prior liens on the underlying real estate that by operation of law attach to the collateral if it is or will become a fixture. If any such prior lien on the real estate will attach to the collateral, a severance agreement must be obtained in writing from each holder of such a lien, including all government or USDA agencies. No additional liens or encumbrances may be placed on the facility after the loan is approved unless CCC approves otherwise in writing.

(3) CCC will hold title in accordance to applicable State laws and motor vehicle administration title provisions, to all eligible equipment, structures, components and storage and handling trucks acquired using loan proceeds under this part.

(b) For loan amounts equal to or less than $100,000, or when the aggregate outstanding FSFLs balance will be equal to or less than $100,000, CCC will not require a severance agreement from the holder of any prior lien on the real estate parcel on which the facility is located. However, the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs, or a State Committee may, at their discretion, require a severance agreement for loan amounts greater than $50,000 or less than $100,000 for all FSFLs in the State, if deemed necessary to protect the interests of CCC. If no severance agreement is provided, then the borrower must:

(1) Agree to increase the down payment on the facility loan from 15 percent to 20 percent, except for an FSFL microloan; or

(2) Provides other security such as an irrevocable letter of credit or other form of security approved by CCC.

(c) For loan amounts equal to or less than $100,000, or when the aggregate outstanding FSFLs balance will be equal to or less than $100,000, CCC will not require a lien on the real estate parcel on which the facility is located. However, the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs or a State Committee may, at their discretion, require a lien in the form of a real estate mortgage, deed of trust, or other security instrument approved by USDA's Office of the General Counsel for loans greater than $50,000 or less than $100,000 for all FSFLs in the State, if deemed necessary to protect the interests of CCC. Liens are required for all loans greater than $100,000. All liens must meet the following conditions:

(1) CCC's interest in the real estate must be superior to all other liens, except a loan may be secured by a junior lien on real estate when the loan is adequately secured and a severance agreement is obtained from prior lien holders; and

(2) The real estate security for the loan must be at least equal to the loan amount; and

(3) If the real estate is covered by a prior lien, a lien waiver may be obtained by means of a subordination agreement approved for use in the State by USDA's Office of the General Counsel. CCC will not require such an agreement from any agency of USDA.

(d) Title insurance or a title opinion is required for loans secured by real estate.

(e) Real estate liens, with prior CCC approval, may cover land separate from the collateral if a lien on the underlying real estate is not feasible and if:

(1) The borrower owns the separate acreage and the acreage is not subject to any other liens or mortgages that are superior to CCC's lien interest and

(2) The acreage is of adequate size and value at the time of the application as determined by the county committee to adequately secure and insure repayment of the loan.

(f) A borrower, in lieu of such liens required by this section, may provide an irrevocable letter of credit, bond, or other form of security, as approved by CCC.

(g) If an existing structure is remodeled and an addition becomes an attached, integral part of the existing storage structure, CCC's security interest will include the remodeled addition as well as the existing storage structure.

(h) For all farm storage facility loans, except sugar loans, the borrower must pay the cost of loan closings by attorneys, title opinions, title insurance, title searches, filing, and recording all real estate liens, fixture filings, appraisals if requested by the borrower, and all subordinations. CCC will pay costs relating to credit reports, collateral lien searches, and filing and recording financing statements for the collateral.

(i) For loan amounts equal to or less than $100,000, or when the aggregate outstanding FSFLs balance will be equal to or less than $100,000, and secured by collateral without any resale value, as determined by CCC, additional security will not be required. However, the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs or a State Committee may, at their discretion, for all FSFLs in the State, require additional security for loan amounts greater than $50,000 or less than $100,000 that are secured by collateral without any resale value if deemed necessary to protect the interests of the CCC.

(j) For sugar storage facility loans, in addition to other requirements in this section, additional security, including real estate, chattels, crops in storage, and other assets owned by the applicant, is required if deemed necessary by CCC to adequately secure the loan. A sugar storage facility loan will generally be considered to be adequately secured when the CCC-determined value of security for the loan is equal to at least 125 percent of the loan amount.

(k) For sugar storage facility loans, paragraph (h) of this section is not applicable. However, the borrower must pay all loan making fees and closing costs. This includes, but is not limited to, attorney fees for loan closings, environmental assessments and studies, chattel and real estate appraisals, title opinions, title insurance, title searches, and filing and recording all real estate liens, fixture filings, subordinations, credit reports, collateral lien searches, and filing and recording financing statements for the collateral.
