
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1436 - FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOAN PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### ยง 1436.11 Disbursements and assignments.

(a) At the request of the borrower, one partial disbursement of loan principal and one final loan disbursement will be available. The partial loan disbursement will be made to facilitate the purchase and construction of an eligible facility and will be made after the approved applicant has completed construction on part of the structure. County FSA personnel will inspect and verify the amount of construction completed.

(1) The amount of the partial loan disbursement will be determined by CCC and made after the borrower provides acceptable documentation for that portion of the completed construction to the County Committee.

(2) Security required for the amount of the partial loan disbursement will be required before the partial loan disbursement is finalized.

(3) The final disbursement of the loan by CCC will be made after the facility has been completely and fully delivered, erected, constructed, assembled, or installed and a CCC representative has inspected and approved such facility.

(4) All additional security needed to fully secure both the partial and final loan disbursements must be received before the final loan disbursement.

(b) Both the partial and final loan disbursements will be made only if the borrower furnishes satisfactory evidence of the total cost of the facility and payment of all debts on the facility in excess of the amount of the loan. If deemed appropriate by CCC, the partial and final disbursement may have separate notes and separate security instruments.

(c) Both the partial and final loan disbursement will be made jointly to the borrower and the contractor or supplier, except disbursement may be made to the borrower solely where CCC determines, based upon information made available to CCC by the borrower, that the borrower has paid the contractor or supplier all amounts that are due and owing with respect to the facility and that all applicable liens, security interests, or other encumbrances have been released.

(d) A release of liability will be required from all contractors and suppliers providing goods and services to the loan applicant.

(e) Loan proceeds cannot be assigned.

(f) For sugar storage facility loans, only one disbursement will be made and such disbursement will be regarded as a final disbursement.
