
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1436 - FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOAN PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### ยง 1436.4 Application for loans.

(a) An application for an FSFL must be submitted to the administrative FSA county office that maintains the records of the farm or farms to which the applicant applies. If some or all of the land does not have farm records established, the application may be submitted to the FSA county office that services the county where the FSFL financed equipment or facility will be primarily located.

(b) Upon request, the applicant must furnish information and documents as the State or county committee deems reasonably necessary to support the application. This may include financial statements, receipts, bills, invoices, purchase orders, specifications, drawings, plats, or written authorization of access.

(c) For sugar storage facility loans, a loan application must be submitted to the county FSA office that maintains the applicant's records. If no such records exist, loan applications must be submitted to the county office serving the headquarters location of the sugar processor.

(d) Submitting an application does not ensure loan approval nor create any liability on behalf of CCC. Borrowers who authorize delivery, site preparation, or construction actions without an approved loan, do so at their own risk.

(e) The application must include documentation of the need for storage, or for FSFL microloans self-certification, as specified in ยง 1436.9.
