
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1436 - FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOAN PROGRAM REGULATIONS
###### ยง 1436.13 Loan installments, delinquency, and acceleration of maturity date.

(a) Equal installments of principal plus interest will be amortized over the loan term for purposes of setting a payment schedule. Installments are due and payable not later than the last day of each 12-month period of each of the partial and final loan disbursements, until the principal plus interest has been paid in full.

(b) Each installment may be paid in cash, money order, wire transfer, or by personal, certified, or cashier's check. Each payment will be applied first to accrued interest and then to principal.

(c) When installments are not paid on the due date:

(1) CCC will generally mail a demand for payment to the debtor after the due date has passed.

(2) If the installment is not paid within 30 calendar days of the due date or if a new due date acceptable to CCC has not been established based on a financial plan submitted by the debtor, CCC may send two subsequent written demands at approximately 30 calendar day intervals unless CCC needs to take other action to protect the interests of CCC.

(3) If the debtor files an appeal according to ยง 1436.18, CCC will generally cease collection action until the appeal process is complete, however, CCC may withhold any payments due the debtor and, depending on the outcome of the appeal, any payments due the debtor may later be offset and applied to reduce the indebtedness.

(4) In lieu of a foreclosure on the collateral or the land securing a loan in the case of a delinquency, CCC may permit a rescheduling of the debt or other measures consistent with the collection of other debts under the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter. Any rescheduling or alternate repayment arrangements will be permitted only with prior approval from the Deputy Administrator, Farm Programs. Alternately, CCC may implement such other collection procedures as it deems appropriate.

(d) A claim will be established against a borrower for any amounts remaining due after liquidation of the loan.

(e) CCC may declare the entire indebtedness immediately due and payable if the borrower violates any of the terms and conditions of this part, fails to pay any installment on time, or breaches any of the terms and conditions of any of the instruments executed in connection with the loan, or if , during the life of the loan, the collateral is used in connection with or by any unauthorized commercial facility including, but not limited to, elevators, warehouses, dryers, processing plants, or retail or wholesale cold storage facilities.

(f) Any action authorized by the provisions of this section may be taken:

(1) Against a debtor's pro rata share of payments due any entity that the borrower participates in, either directly or indirectly, as determined by CCC.

(2) Against related persons or entities, irrespective of the debtor's, share, when CCC determines that the debtor has established an entity, or reorganized, transferred ownership of, or changed in some other manner, their operation, for the purpose of avoiding the payment of the debt.

(g) The loan may be paid in full or in part without penalty at any time before maturity.

(h) Upon payment of a loan, CCC will release CCC's security interest in the collateral.
