
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1437.5 Coverage levels.

(a) NAP coverage for prevented planting is provided for approved prevented planting of an eligible NAP covered crop due to an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period. Payment is based on the approved prevented planted acreage in excess of 35 percent of the total intended acres to be planted.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, NAP coverage is equal to 50 percent of the yield or inventory value specified in paragraph (c) of this section at 55 percent of the average market price established by FSA.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, to be eligible for a NAP payment a producer must have suffered a yield or inventory value loss greater than 50 percent as the result of an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period as follows:

(1) For yield-based crops, a yield loss in excess of 50 percent of the approved yield;

(2) For value loss crops, a loss of value in excess of 50 percent of the total value of eligible inventory at the time of disaster;

(d) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, producers of eligible NAP crops, other than crops and grasses intended for grazing, may elect buy-up coverage at 100 percent of the average market price in amounts of 50 percent to 65 percent, in 5 percent increments, of:

(1) For yield-based crops, the approved yield; and

(2) For value loss crops, the lesser of the total value of eligible inventory at the time of disaster or the maximum dollar value for coverage sought.

(e) A producer cannot obtain buy-up coverage for a crop if the producer has not successfully produced the crop in a previous year for which documentation exists and that documentation shows that the crop can be successfully grown by the producer in the county. Production of the crop is considered to be successful if the producer produced at least 50 percent of the county expected yield for the same county for which buy-up coverage is sought, unless the producer suffered a loss on the crop due to an eligible cause of loss in ยง 1437.10. If not already provided to FSA for any reason including NAP coverage or assistance, the producer must submit documentation showing successful growing of the crop in a previous year and, in the event a loss due to an eligible cause of loss was sustained, submit documentation of that loss satisfying the requirements of ยง 1437.11.

(f) The quantity or value of any eligible NAP crop will not be reduced for any quality consideration unless a zero value is established based on a total loss of quality, except as specified in ยง 1437.105.

(g) For crop acreage intended to be grazed, to be eligible for a NAP payment, a producer must have suffered a loss of AUD in excess of 50 percent of expected AUD determined on the basis of acreage, carrying capacity, and grazing period.
