
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1437.7 Application for coverage, service fee, premium, transfers of coverage, and acreage report.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, with respect to each crop, commodity, or acreage, producers must file an application for coverage under this part by the application closing date.

(b) The service fee or certification of eligibility for service fee waiver specified in paragraph (g) of this section must accompany the application for coverage in order for it to be considered filed. The service fee is:

(1) For applications filed by April 7, 2019, $250 per crop per administrative county, up to $750 per producer per administrative county, not to exceed $1,875 per producer; and

(2) For applications filed on or after April 8, 2019, $325 per crop per administrative county, up to $825 per producer per administrative county, not to exceed $1,950 per producer.

(c) The service fee will be applied per administrative county by crop and by planting period, as determined by FSA.

(d) Producers who elect buy-up coverage must pay a premium, in addition to the service fee, equal to the lesser of:

(1) The product obtained by multiplying:

(i) A 5.25-percent premium fee; and

(ii) The applicable payment limit; or

(2) The sum of the premiums for each eligible crop, with the premium for each eligible crop obtained by multiplying:

(i) The producer's share of the eligible crop;

(ii) The number of acres devoted to the eligible crop;

(iii) The approved yield;

(iv) The coverage level elected by the producer;

(v) The average market price; and

(vi) A 5.25-percent premium fee.

(e) For value loss crops, premiums will be equal to the lesser of:

(1) The product obtained by multiplying:

(i) A 5.25-percent premium fee; and

(ii) The applicable payment limit; or

(2) The sum of the premiums for each eligible crop, with the premium for each eligible crop obtained by multiplying:

(i) The maximum dollar value for which coverage is sought by the applicant;

(ii) The coverage level elected by the producer; and

(iii) A 5.25-percent premium fee.

(f) Premiums will be calculated separately for each crop, type, and intended use as reported on the acreage report and as specified in the basic provisions.

(g) Beginning farmers and ranchers, limited resource farmers and ranchers, socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers, and veteran farmers and ranchers will receive, upon certification, a waiver of the service fee and a 50 percent premium reduction for any buy-up coverage elected. The certification is required on or before the time the application for coverage is filed using the form specified by FSA.

(h) Transfers of NAP coverage are governed by the basic provisions.

(i) For the 2019 and 2020 crop years, if a crop's application closing date is before April 8, 2019, FSA will accept applications for coverage without regard to whether or not the application for coverage was filed by the crop's application closing date, provided that the application for coverage includes buy-up coverage according to ยง 1437.5(d) and is filed by May 24, 2019. Except as specifically stated in this rule, the provisions of this paragraph do not apply to crops having an application closing date established on or after April 8, 2019, or to applications for coverage that do not include buy-up coverage as an option selected by the applicant. The coverage period for applications for coverage filed according to this paragraph will be as specified in ยง 1437.6.

(j) An accurate acreage report must be filed for each crop included on an application for coverage by the earliest of:

(1) The acreage reporting date for the crop announced by FSA;

(2) 15 calendar days before the onset of harvest or grazing of the crop acreage being reported; or

(3) The established normal harvest date for the end of the coverage period.

(k) Applications for coverage for hemp are governed by this part.

(l) Applications for coverage that were filed with FSA for all crops other than hemp that were covered under the regulations in effect at the time of filing and which meet all the other requirements of this section will be recognized by FSA.
