
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### § 1437.17 Matters of general applicability.

(a) The regulations in this part and FSA's interpretation of the regulations in this part, the basic provisions, and internal agency directives issued to FSA State and county offices are matters of general applicability and are not individually appealable in administrative appeals according to §§ 11.3 and 780.5 of this title. Additionally, the regulations in this part and any FSA decisions that are not based on specific facts derived from an individual participant's application, contract, or file are not appealable under parts 11 or 780 of this title. Examples of such decisions include how NAP is generally administered, signup deadlines, payment rates, or any other generally applicable matter or determination that is made by FSA for use in all similarly situated applications. The only extent to which the matters referenced in this section are reviewable administratively in an appeal forum is whether FSA's determination of facts incidental to the case and decision to apply the generally applicable matter is in conformance with the regulations in this part.

(b) The relief provisions of 7 CFR part 718 are applicable only to participant ineligibility and noncompliance decisions. The relief provisions cannot be used to extend a benefit or assistance not otherwise available under law or not otherwise available to others who have satisfied or complied with all the eligibility and compliance requirements of this part. Equitable relief provisions of part 718 of this title cannot be used to obtain a review of either these regulations, the requirements of this part, the agency's interpretations of this part, or compliance provisions of this part.
