
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1437.13 Crop definition.

(a) For the purpose of providing benefits under this part, FSA will, at its discretion, define crops as specified in this section.

(b) FSA may separate or combine types and varieties as a crop when specific credible information as determined by FSA is provided showing the crop of a specific type or variety has a significantly different or similar value when compared to other types or varieties, as determined by FSA.

(c) FSA may recognize two or more different crops planted on the same acreage intended for harvest during the same crop year as two or more separate crops. The crop acreage may include a crop intended for harvest before planting of a succeeding crop or a succeeding crop interseeded with the preceding crop prior to intended harvest of the preceding crop. The acreage must be in an area where the practice is recognized as a good farming practice, as determined by FSA, and all crops are recognized by FSA as able to achieve the expected yield, as determined by FSA.

(d) FSA may consider crop acreage that is harvested more than once during the same crop year from the same plant as a single crop. The acreage must be in an area where the practice is recognized as a good farming practice, as determined by FSA.

(e) FSA may consider each planting period of multiple planted acreage as a separate crop. The acreage must be in an area where the practice is recognized as a good farming practice, as determined by FSA.

(f) FSA may define forage as separate crops according to the intended method of harvest, either mechanical harvest or grazed.

(g) Forage acreage intended to be grazed may be further defined as warm and cool season forage crops.

(h) Forage acreage intended to be mechanically harvested may be defined as a separate crop from grazed forage and may be separated based upon the commodity used as forage, to the extent such separation is allowed under paragraph (b) of this section.

(i) Crop acreage intended for the production of seed may be considered a separate crop from other intended uses, as determined by FSA, if all the following criteria apply:

(1) The specific crop acreage is seeded, or intended to be seeded, with an intent of producing commercial seed as its primary intended use;

(2) There is no possibility of other commercial uses of production from the same crop without regard to market conditions; and

(3) The growing period of the specific crop acreage is uniquely conducive to the production of commercial seed and not conducive to the production of any other intended use of the crop, (e.g. vernalization in a biennial crop such as carrots and onions) and that accommodation renders the possibility of production for any other intended use of the crop improbable.
