
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Determining Yield Coverage Using Actual Production History
####### § 1437.105 Determining payments for low yield.

(a) Except to the extent that the loss calculation provisions of other subparts apply, and subject to limitations set out elsewhere in this part and in this title and to the availability of funds, payments under this part will be made on eligible crops with eligible losses by:

(1) Multiplying the total acres devoted to the eligible crop by the producers share, and subject to provisions for specific crops provided elsewhere in this part;

(2) Multiplying the product of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by 50, 55, 60, or 65 percent, as selected by the producer as specified in § 1437.5; of the approved yield per acre for the commodity for the producer.

(3) Multiplying the net production of the total eligible acreage by the producer's share;

(4) Subtracting the product of paragraph (a)(3) of this section from the product of paragraph (a)(2) of this section;

(5) Multiplying the amount calculated as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section by 55 or 100 percent (selected by the producer as specified in § 1437.5) of the final payment price calculated as specified in § 1437.12; and

(6) Adding the producer's share of any salvage value and secondary use and subtracting the result from the result of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(b) Further adjustments may be made as needed to accomplish the purposes and goals of the program.

(c) The crops and locations eligible for quality adjustments will be determined by the Deputy Administrator in advance of the coverage period, only if supporting documentation of industry standards for quality adjustments are available. For specific crops and locations determined by the Deputy Administrator for which buy-up coverage under § 1437.5(d) is elected and for which adjustments to net production based on quality losses will be authorized for a coverage period in accordance with this paragraph, producers may opt for an adjustment of net production of a covered crop as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section based on a specific measure of quality against a set of standards that are acceptable to FSA. The standards and permissible adjustments to net production based on alleged quality losses stemming from eligible causes of loss in a coverage period will be based on FSA's review of sufficient documentation and are subject to FSA acceptance and State committee recommendation to the Deputy Administrator. The crops and locations where quality adjustments will be permitted will be as specified on a list maintained by FSA.

(d) Production will not be adjusted under this section unless all other provisions of this section are met and the crop and location are included on a list of approved crops and locations before the beginning of the coverage period for the crop.

(e) A producer of a NAP covered crop in a location and coverage period approved by FSA as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section who opts for the quality loss adjustment option must submit verifiable records obtained by testing or analysis of the specific crop's production and the alleged loss of quality stemming from an eligible cause of loss in the coverage period. Records must meet requirements of § 1437.8(a)(3).

(f) If a quality adjustment option is sought by a producer and approved for a crop year, FSA will enter the adjusted value of net production into the producer's actual production history yield database for the loss year. The lower actual yield that results from the quality adjustment will be used for future approved yield calculations.
