
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Determining Yield Coverage Using Actual Production History
####### ยง 1437.103 Late-planted acreage.

(a) Producers planting crop acreage after the final planting date and during the late planting period, as determined by FSA, may be eligible for reduced coverage as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) Crops with multiple planting periods and value loss crops are not eligible for reduced coverage for late planting. Exceptions to this are the last planting period of multiple planted crops and multiple-planting periods having a defined gap of 60 days or more between harvest date of the previous planting period and beginning of the immediately following planting period.

(c) For crops with a growing period of:

(1) 60 days or less and planted:

(i) From 1 to 5 calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to 5 percent of unit expected production for each day the crop is actually planted after the final planting date;

(ii) From 6 days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to the unit guarantee for the late planted crop acreage.

(2) 61 to 120 calendar days and planted:

(i) From 1 to 5 calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to 5 percent of expected unit production of the applicable late-planted crop acreage and for days 6 through 20 an additional 1 percent for each day the crop is planted after the final planting date;

(ii) From 21 days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to the unit guarantee for the late planted crop acreage.

(3) 121 calendar days or more and planted:

(i) From 1 to 5 calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to 5 percent of expected production of the applicable late-planted crop acreage and for days 6 through 25 an additional 1 percent for each day the crop is planted after the final planting date.

(ii) From 26 or more calendar days after the final planting date, production will be assigned equal to unit guarantee of the producer's expected production of the applicable late-planted crop acreage.
