
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Determining Yield Coverage Using Actual Production History
####### ยง 1437.104 Assigned production.

(a) When determining losses under this section, assigned production will be used to offset the loss of production when, as determined by FSA, any of the following has occurred:

(1) The loss is a result of an ineligible cause of loss and the loss has not been otherwise accounted for.

(2) The unit acreage was destroyed without consent notwithstanding ยง 1437.11(e).

(3) The producer has a contract to receive a guaranteed payment for all or a portion of the production, as opposed to or regardless of delivery of such production.

(4) The crop is planted after the STC-established final planting date according to ยง 1437.103.

(5) Irrigation equipment is not capable of supplying adequate water to sustain the expected production of a normal irrigated crop.

(6) For normal irrigated annual, biennial, and perennial crops, the irrigation practice is not used.

(7) For normal irrigated annual and biennial crops, the supply of available water at the beginning of the crop year is not adequate.

(8) For normal irrigated perennial crops, the supply of available water at the beginning of the crop year is not adequate as a result of an ineligible cause of loss.
