
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Determining Yield Coverage Using Actual Production History
####### ยง 1437.102 Yield determinations.
######## i.e.

(2) Is a simple average of a minimum of four base period crop year yields,, actual yield, T-yield, assigned yield, or zero-credited yield. The base period is 10 crop years, except 5 crop years for apples and peaches, immediately preceding the crop year for which an approved yield is calculated, not including any crop year the crop was out of rotation, not planted, or prevented from being planted.

(3) Will be calculated according to the following criteria when the producer does not have at least four consecutive crop years of actual, assigned, or zero credited yields beginning with the most recent crop year.

(i) If there are no certified acceptable production records of actual production for the most recent crop year, or zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, and no formula provided for the producer under paragraphs (e)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section, then the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of 65 percent of the applicable T-yield for each of the minimum four APH crop years.

(ii) If certified acceptable production records of actual production are available for only the most recent crop year and there are no zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of the one actual yield plus 80 percent of the applicable T-yield for the remaining three of the minimum four APH crop years.

(iii) If certified acceptable production records of actual production are available for only the two most recent crop years and there are no zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of the two actual yields plus 90 percent of the applicable T-yield for the remaining two of the minimum four APH crop years.

(iv) If certified acceptable production records of actual production are available for only the three most recent crop years and there are no zero credited or assigned yields in the producer's APH base period, the approved yield for the current crop year will be calculated on the simple average of the three actual yields plus 100 percent of the applicable T-yield for the remaining crop year of the minimum four APH crop years.

(f) If, for one or more actual production history crop years used to establish the approved yield, the actual or appraised yield is less than 65 percent of the current crop year T-yield due to losses incurred in a disaster year, as determined by FSA, producers may request FSA replace the applicable yield with a yield equal to 65 percent of the current crop year T-yield.

(g) If approved yields were calculated for any of the 1995 through 2014 crop years, and subsequently in that period production was not certified, producers may request FSA replace the missing yields for such years with yields equal to the higher of 65 percent of the current crop year T-yield or the missing crop years actual yield.

(h) If producers add land in the farming operation and do not have available production records for the added land FSA will calculate an approved yield for the new unit by utilizing the actual production history yields for the existing unit. In the event the crop suffers a loss greater than the unit guarantee for the crop year and unit acreage has increased by more than 75 percent of the historical average acreage, FSA may adjust the approved yield, as determined by FSA.

(i) If a producer is a new producer, the approved yield may be based on unadjusted T-Yields or a combination of actual yields and unadjusted T-Yields. A new producer is a person who has not been actively engaged in farming for a share of the production of the eligible crop in the administrative county for more than two APH crop years. Formation or dissolution of an entity which includes individuals with more than two APH crop years of production history during the base period does not qualify the new entity as a new producer for APH determination purposes.

(j) A producer who has not shared in the risk of the production of the crop for more than two crop years during the base period, as determined by FSA, will have an approved yield calculated based on a combination of 100 percent of the applicable T-yield and any actual yield for the minimum crop years of the producer's APH base period. Producers who have produced the crop for one or more crop years must provide FSA, at the administrative county office serving the area in which the crop is located, a certification of production and production records for the applicable crop years as specified in ยง 1437.8.

(k) Further adjustments may be made as necessary to accomplish the purposes of this program.
