
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Determining Yield Coverage Using Actual Production History
####### ยง 1437.108 Hemp.

(a) Hemp is eligible for NAP coverage only if the hemp is:

(1) Grown under an official certification or license issued by the applicable governing authority that permits the production of the hemp;

(2) Grown under a hemp processor contract executed by the applicable acreage reporting date; and

(3) Planted for harvest as hemp in accordance with the requirements of the hemp processor contract and the production management practices of the hemp processor.

(b) In addition to all other requirements under this part, a producer who obtains NAP coverage for hemp must submit by the acreage reporting date:

(1) The certification or license number;

(2) A copy of the certification form or official license issued by the applicable governing authority authorizing the producer to produce hemp; and

(3) A copy of each fully executed hemp processor contract.

(c) A producer must submit THC test results taken at harvest of the hemp crop. If the producer does not submit the THC test results, that production will not be included in the producer's actual yield for the purpose of determining a producer's APH under ยง 1437.101.

(d) Hemp is not eligible for NAP coverage if it is planted on acres on which Cannabis, canola, dry beans, dry peas, mustard, rapeseed, soybeans in states as determined by the Deputy Administrator, or sunflowers were grown the preceding crop year.

(e) Hemp that has a THC level above 0.3 percent:

(1) Is not eligible for NAP benefits; and

(2) Is not included in the producer's actual yield for the purpose of determining a producer's APH under ยง 1437.101.

(f) Hemp will be ineligible for NAP payment for that NAP crop year if the producer's certification or license is terminated or suspended during that NAP crop year.
