
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Determining Coverage Using Value
####### ยง 1437.304 Floriculture.

(a) Floriculture, except for seed crops as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, is a value loss crop and is compensable only in accord with restrictions set in this section. Eligible floriculture is limited to commercial production of:

(1) Field-grown flowers, including flowers grown in containers or other growing medium maintained in a field setting according to industry standards, as determined by FSA; and

(2) Tubers and bulbs, for use as propagation stock of eligible floriculture plants; and

(3) Seed for propagation of eligible floriculture plants.

(b) Floriculture does not include flowering plants indigenous to the location of the floriculture facility or acreage.

(c) Eligible floriculture must be grown in a region or controlled environment conducive to the successful production of flowers, tubers, and bulbs, as determined by FSA.

(d) Claims on losses on the production of flower seed for propagation of eligible floriculture plants will not be treated under "value loss" rules, but under the rules for normal production low yield crops under subpart B of this part.

(e) The facility or acreage for eligible floriculture must be managed and maintained using good floriculture growing practices. At a minimum, producers are responsible for providing a controlled environment and must ensure adequate and proper fertilization, irrigation, weed control, insect and disease control, and rodent and wildlife control.

(f) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence the floriculture is produced in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) Flowers having any dollar value are counted as having full value for loss calculations. Damaged plants that are determined able to rejuvenate or determined to be merely stunted are counted as worth full value.
