
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Determining Coverage Using Value
####### ยง 1437.305 Ornamental nursery.

(a) Eligible ornamental nursery stock is a value loss crop and is compensable only in accord with restrictions set out in this section. Eligible ornamental nursery stock is limited to field-grown and containerized decorative plants grown in a controlled environment for commercial sale.

(b) The property upon which the nursery stock is located must be owned or leased by the producer.

(c) The eligible nursery stock must be placed in the ornamental nursery facility and not be indigenous to the facility.

(d) The facility must be managed and cared for using good nursery growing practices for the geographical region. At a minimum producers must provide a controlled environment and ensure adequate and proper flood prevention, growing medium, fertilization, irrigation, insect and disease control, weed control, rodent and wildlife control, and over-winterization storage facilities.

(e) An ornamental plant having any value as an ornamental plant, or a damaged ornamental plant that may rejuvenate and re-establish value as an ornamental plant, will be considered as worth full value based on the age or size of the plant at the time of disaster.

(f) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence the ornamental nursery is maintained in accordance with this section.

(g) For the 2010 and subsequent crops, the crop year for ornamental nursery is June 1 through May 31.
