
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1437 - NONINSURED CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Determining Coverage Using Value
####### § 1437.310 Sea grass and sea oats.

(a) Sea grass and sea oats are value loss crops and eligibility will be limited to ornamental plants grown for commercial sale and seeds and transplants produced for commercial sale as propagation stock.

(b) An eligible commodity under this section intended for sale on a commercial basis as:

(1) An ornamental plant can produce a claim in the event of a loss due to a qualifying condition only in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as ornamental nursery stock under § 1437.305 and such claims will not, as such, be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section, except to the extent that similar provisions apply to claims under § 1437.305.

(2) Propagation stock (seed or transplant) can produce a claim under this part but only in accord with the provisions that follow in this section and subject to other conditions on payment as may be imposed elsewhere in this part.

(c) For purposes of a loss calculation arising under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the value of:

(1) Seed will be determined on a yield basis made in accordance with subpart B of this part and average market price established in accordance with § 1437.12.

(2) Transplant losses will be determined based on inventory that existed immediately before and after the disaster and average market price established in accordance with § 1437.12.

(d) Transplant producers must have up-to-date inventory and sales records and other documents, sufficient to document actual losses, as determined by FSA.

(e) The land, waterbed, or facility in which the eligible commodity was located at the time of loss must:

(1) Be owned or leased by the producer;

(2) Have readily identifiable boundaries; and

(3) Be managed and maintained using acceptable growing practices for the geographical region, as determined by FSA.

(f) The producer must have control of the land, waterbed, or facility and must ensure adequate and proper:

(1) Flood prevention;

(2) Growing medium;

(3) Fertilization or feeding;

(4) Irrigation and water quality;

(5) Weed control;

(6) Pest and disease control;

(7) Rodent and wildlife control; and

(8) Over-winterization facilities, as applicable.

(g) The eligible commodity must be:

(1) Grown in a region or controlled environment conducive to successful production, as determined by FSA; and

(2) Placed in the waterbed or facility in which the loss occurs and not be indigenous to the waterbed or facility.

(h) Eligible commodities having any dollar value after the disaster will be considered as having full value when making loss calculations. Also, damaged plants that do not have any value after the disaster but that can be rejuvenated or may, if not fully rejuvenated, reacquire value, will be counted as worth full value as well.

(i) In the crop year in which a notice of loss is filed, producers may be required, at the discretion of FSA, to provide evidence that the eligible commodity was produced in accordance with paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section and other provisions of this part.
