
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1450 - BIOMASS CROP ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (BCAP)
###### Subpart A - Common Provisions
####### ยง 1450.1 Administration.

(a) The regulations in this part are administered under the general supervision and direction of the Executive Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), or a designee. In the field, the regulations in this part will be implemented by the Farm Service Agency (FSA) State and county committees ("State committees" and "county committees," respectively).

(b) State executive directors, county executive directors, and State and county committees do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions in this part unless specifically authorized by the FSA Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs (Deputy Administrator).

(c) The State committee may take any action authorized or required by this part to be taken by the county committee, but which has not been taken by such committee, such as:

(1) Correct or require a county committee to correct any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with this part; or

(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.

(d) No delegation of authority to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee, from determining any question arising under this part or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.

(e) Data furnished by participants will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, the failure to provide data could result in program benefits being withheld or denied.

(f) Subject to the availability of funds and all other eligibility provisions of this part, this part provides the terms, conditions and requirements of BCAP. In the event that CCC determines that available funds are insufficient to accommodate the demand for establishment and annual payments as well as all potential applications for matching payments for collection, harvest, storage, and transportation of eligible material, without any advance notice other than that stated here, CCC may prioritize the expenditure of program funds in favor of funding for the selection of BCAP project areas and the establishment and annual payments related to those project areas, and may make such other priorities in approvals that will, in the determination of the Deputy Administrator, advance the purposes of BCAP.
