
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1455 - VOLUNTARY PUBLIC ACCESS AND HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1455.30 Reporting requirements.

(a) Grantees must provide the following to NRCS:

(1) A "Financial Status Report" listing expenditures according to agreed upon budget categories, on a periodic basis as specified in the grant document.

(2) Annual performance reports that compare accomplishments to the objectives stated in the application, and that also:

(i) Identify all tasks completed to date and provide documentation supporting the reported results;

(ii) If the original schedule provided in the work plan is not being met, the report must discuss the problems or delays that may affect completion of the project;

(iii) List objectives for the next reporting period; and

(iv) Discuss compliance with any special conditions on the use of award funds. Reports are due as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) Final project performance reports, inclusive of supporting documentation. The final performance report is due within 90 days of the completion of the project.

(b) All reports submitted to NRCS will be held in confidence to the extent permitted by law.

(c) Grantees must comply with applicable registration and reporting requirements of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282, as amended) and 2 CFR parts 25 and 170.
