
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1463 - 2005-2014 TOBACCO TRANSITION PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Tobacco Transition Payment Program
####### ยง 1463.101 Administration.

(a) The program will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC, and shall be carried out by FSA State and county committees (State and county committees).

(b) State and county committees and their representatives and employees have no authority to modify or waive provisions of this subpart.

(c) The State committee shall take any action required by the regulations of this subpart that has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee shall also:

(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with this subpart; or

(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this subpart.

(d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee shall preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, or designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee. Further, the Executive Vice-President, CCC, or designee, may modify any deadline in this subpart to the extent doing so is determined to be appropriate and consistent with the purposes of the program.

(e) A representative of CCC may execute a contract for a transition payment only under the terms and conditions of this part, and as determined and announced by the Executive Vice President, CCC. Any contract that is not executed in accordance with such terms and conditions, including any purported execution prior to the date authorized by the Executive Vice President, CCC, is null and void and shall not be considered to be a contract between CCC and any person executing the contract.
