
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1463 - 2005-2014 TOBACCO TRANSITION PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - Tobacco Transition Assessments
####### ยง 1463.11 Appeals and judicial review.

(a) An entity may appeal any adverse determination made under this subpart, including with respect to the amount of the assessment, by submitting a written statement that sets forth the basis of the dispute to Darlene Soto, Tobacco Transition Assessment Program Manager, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Room 3722, Mail Stop 0515, Washington DC 20250-0514, within 30 business days of the date of receipt of the notification by CCC of its determination.

(b) The Executive Vice President shall assign a person to act as the hearing officer on behalf of CCC. The duty of the hearing officer will be to develop an administrative record that will provide the Executive Vice President, or a designee, with sufficient information to render a final determination on the matter in dispute. The hearing to be conducted by the hearing officer will be an informal hearing at which the appellant may present oral and written evidence in support of the appellant's position. A copy of the rules of conduct that will be applicable to the proceeding will be provided to the appellant upon receipt of the appeal by CCC.

(c) For any appeals filed after October 1, 2014, appellants must submit all supporting documentation within 30 calendar days following the date of the initial written appeal to CCC. Any documents received after that time will not be considered by the hearing officer.

(1) The final date that entities may file an appeal is January 14, 2016.

(2) If 30 calendar days elapse following receipt by CCC of the final submission of supporting documentation by an appellant with respect to any appeal filed under this section regarding an assessment imposed on a domestic manufacturer or importer of tobacco products, without a final administrative decision by CCC, then all administrative remedies available to the appellant will be deemed to be exhausted; except, if the 30th calendar day would fall on a weekend day or federal holiday, then the 30th calendar day will be deemed the next business day following such weekend day or federal holiday.

(d) Any domestic manufacturer or importer of tobacco products aggrieved by a determination made by CCC under this subpart may seek review of the determination upon the exhaustion of the administrative remedies provided by this part in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, or for the district in which such importer or manufacturer has its principal place of business.
