
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1463 - 2005-2014 TOBACCO TRANSITION PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Tobacco Transition Payment Program
####### ยง 1463.100 General.

(a) The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) will make payments to tobacco quota holders and tobacco producers as provided in this subpart with respect to farms for which a tobacco marketing quota had been established by the Farm Service Agency (FSA). To be eligible for a payment, such person must meet all provisions of this part; submit to CCC an application provided by CCC to enter into a contract for payment; and submit other information as may be required by CCC. Payments will be made by CCC annually over a 10-year period.

(b) As provided in this part, a tobacco quota holder or tobacco producer who is not the subject of an outstanding claim established by the United States may, under the terms and conditions established by CCC and with the prior approval of CCC, enter into a successor in interest contract with another person or entity. Upon approval by CCC, all rights and obligations of the quota holder or producer, with respect to payments made by CCC under this part, will be terminated and transferred to the successor party.

(c) As provided in this part, a tobacco quota holder or tobacco producer who may, under the terms and conditions established by CCC, and with the prior approval of CCC, may assign the right to receive a payment to be made under this part by executing an assignment as provided in ยง 1463.111.

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the provisions of 7 CFR parts 723 and 1464 shall not be applicable to the 2005 and subsequent crops and the 2005 and subsequent marketing years.
