
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1463 - 2005-2014 TOBACCO TRANSITION PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Tobacco Transition Payment Program
####### ยง 1463.105 Base quota levels for eligible quota holders.

(a) The BQL is determined separately for each kind of tobacco for each farm for which a 2004 basic marketing year quota was established under part 723 of this title. Any marketing quota assigned by FSA to a new farm in 2003 or 2004, other than through transfer from another farm, shall not be considered when determining the BQL.

(b) For burley tobacco quota holders BQL is established according to the following table, except as adjusted under paragraph (e) of this section:

(1) Farm BQL. The 2004 basic quota, multiplied by the BQL adjustment factor 1.071295. (The factor adjusts the 2004 basic quota to the 2002 basic quota level.)

(2) Quota holder BQL. The farm BQL multiplied by the quota holder's ownership share in the farm. (In the case of undivided tract ownership, BQL must be distributed among the tract quota holders by the tract owners.)

(c) For flue-cured tobacco quota holders the BQL is established according to the following table, except as adjusted under paragraph (e) of this section:

(1) Farm BQL. The 2004 basic quota, multiplied by the BQL adjustment factor 1.23457. (The factor adjusts the 2004 basic quota to the 2002 level.)

(2) Quota holder BQL. The farm BQL multiplied by the quota holder's ownership share in the farm. (In the case of undivided tract ownership, BQL must be distributed among the tract quota holders by the tract owner.)

(d) For quota holders of all other kinds of tobacco the BQL is established according to the following table, except as adjusted under paragraph (e) of this section:

(1) Farm BQL. The basic allotment established for the farm in 2002 multiplied by the county average production yield. The following NASS yields are to be used for any county without production:

(i) Fire-cured (type 21)-1746 lbs.

(ii) Fire-cured (types 22-23)-2676 lbs.

(iii) Dark Air-cured (types 35-36)-2475 lbs.

(iv) Virginia Sun-cured (type 37)-1502 lbs.

(v) Cigar Filler/Binder (types 42-44, 54, 55)-2230 lbs.

(2) Quota holder BQL. The farm BQL multiplied by the quota holder's ownership share in the farm. (In the case of undivided tract ownership, BQL must be distributed among the tract quota holders by the tract owner.)

(e)(1) CCC will divide the BQL for the farm between the parties to the agreement as CCC determines to be fair and equitable, taking into consideration the proportionate amounts of cropland sold, if:

(i) On or before October 22, 2004, the owner of a farm had entered into an agreement for the sale of all or a portion of a farm for which a farm marketing quota was established for the 2004 marketing year; and

(ii) Such agreement had not been fulfilled or terminated prior to that date; and

(iii) The parties to the agreement are unable to agree to the disposition of the contract payment to be made with respect to the farm.

(2) If, on or before October 22, 2004, the owner of a farm had entered into an agreement for the permanent transfer of all or a portion of a tobacco marketing quota and the transfer had not been completed by such date, the owner of the farm to which such quota was to be transferred shall be considered to be the owner of the marketing quota for the purposes of this subpart. The BQL's for the transferring farm and the receiving farm will be adjusted to reflect this transfer.

(f) Any tobacco marketing quota preserved under part 1410 of this chapter as the result of the enrollment of a farm in the Conservation Reserve Program shall be included in the determination of the BQL of the farm.
