
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1467 - WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1467.4 Program requirements.
####### General.

(a)(1) Under the WRP, NRCS may purchase conservation easements from, or enter into 30-year contracts or restoration cost-share agreements with, eligible landowners who voluntarily cooperate to restore, protect, or enhance wetlands on eligible private and Tribal lands. The 30-year contract enrollment option is only available to acreage owned by Indian Tribes.

(2) To participate in WRP, a landowner must agree to the implementation of a WRPO, the effect of which is to restore, protect, enhance, maintain, and manage the hydrologic conditions of inundation or saturation of the soil, native vegetation, and natural topography of eligible lands. NRCS may provide cost-share assistance through a restoration cost-share agreement or an easement restoration agreement for the conservation practices and activities that promote the restoration, protection, enhancement, maintenance, and management of wetland functions and values. For easement transactions, NRCS may implement such conservation practices and activities through an agreement with the landowner, a contract with a vendor, or a cooperative agreement with a cooperating entity. Specific restoration, protection, enhancement, maintenance, and management actions may be undertaken by the landowner, NRCS, or other designee.
