
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1467 - WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1467.8 Compensation for easements and 30-year contracts.
####### Determination of easement payment rates.

(a)(1) Compensation for an easement under this part shall be made in cash in such amount as is agreed to and specified in the option agreement to purchase or 30-year contract.

(2) Payments for non-permanent easements or 30-year contracts shall be not more than 75 percent of that which would have been paid for a permanent easement as determined by the methods listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) NRCS shall pay as compensation the lowest of the following:

(i) The fair market value of the land using the Uniform Standards for Professional Appraisal Practices, or based on an area-wide market analysis or survey;

(ii) The geographic area rate cap determined under paragraph (a)(4) of this section; or

(iii) The landowner offer.

(4) The State Conservationist, in consultation with the State Technical Committee, shall establish one or more geographic area rate caps within a state. The State Conservationist shall submit geographic area rate caps and supporting documentation to the Chief for approval. Each State Conservationist will determine the geographic area rate cap using the best information which is readily available in that State. Such information may include: Soil types, type(s) of crops capable of being grown, production history, location, real estate market values, and tax rates and assessments.
