
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1467 - WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1467.8 Compensation for easements and 30-year contracts.
####### Acceptance of offered easement compensation.

(b)(1) NRCS will not acquire any easement unless the landowner accepts the amount of the easement payment offered by NRCS. The easement payment may or may not equal the fair market value of the interests and rights to be conveyed by the landowner under the easement. By voluntarily participating in the program, a landowner waives any claim to additional compensation based on fair market value.

(2)(i) For easements or 30-year contracts valued at $500,000 or less, NRCS will provide compensation in up to 30 annual payments, as requested by the participant, as specified in the option agreement to purchase or 30-year contract between NRCS and the participant.

(ii) For easements or 30-year contracts valued at more than $500,000, the Secretary may provide compensation in at least 5, but not more than 30 annual payments. NRCS may provide compensation in a single payment for such easements or 30-year contracts when, as determined by the Chief, it would further the purposes of the program. The applicable payment schedule will be specified in the option agreement to purchase, warranty easement deed, or 30-year contract between NRCS and the participant.
