
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1467 - WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1467.10 Cost-share payments.

(a) NRCS may share the cost with participants of implementing the WRPO on the enrolled land. The amount and terms and conditions of the cost-share assistance shall be subject to the following restrictions on the costs of establishing or installing conservation practices or activities specified in the WRPO:

(1) On enrolled land subject to a permanent easement, NRCS will offer to pay at least 75 percent but not more than 100 percent of such costs; and

(2) On enrolled land subject to a non-permanent easement, 30-year contract, or restoration cost-share agreement, NRCS will offer to pay at least 50 percent but not more than 75 percent of such costs.

(3) The total amount of payments that a person or legal entity may receive, directly or indirectly, for one or more restoration cost-share agreements, for any year, may not exceed $50,000.

(b) Cost-share payments may be made only upon a determination by NRCS that an eligible conservation practice or component of the conservation practice has been implemented in compliance with appropriate NRCS standards and specifications; or an eligible activity has been implemented in compliance with the appropriate requirements detailed in the WRPO. Identified conservation practices or activities may be implemented by the participant, NRCS, or other NRCS designee.

(c) Cost-share payments may be made for replacement of an eligible conservation practice, if NRCS determines that the practice is still needed and that the failure of the original conservation practice was due to reasons beyond the control of the participant.

(d) A participant may seek additional cost-share assistance from other public or private organizations as long as the conservation practices or activities funded are in compliance with this part. In no event shall the participant receive an amount that exceeds 100 percent of the total actual cost of the restoration.
