
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1467 - WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1467.9 Wetlands Reserve Enhancement Program.
####### Wetlands Reserve Enhancement Program (WREP).

(a)(1) The purpose of WREP is to target and leverage resources to address high priority wetlands protection, restoration, and enhancement objectives through agreements with States (including a political subdivision or agency of a State), nongovernmental organizations, and Indian Tribes.

(2) Funding for WREP agreements will be announced in the

(i) The announcement will provide details on the priorities for funding, required level of partner matching funds, ranking criteria, level of available funding, and additional criteria as determined by the Chief.

(ii) The Chief will determine the funding level for WREP on an annual basis. Funds for WREP are derived from funds available for WRP.

(3) Proposals will be submitted to the State Conservationist of the State in which the majority of the project area resides.

(i) State Conservationists will evaluate proposals based on the ranking criteria established in the announcement and provide proposals recommended for funding to the Chief.

(ii) The Chief will evaluate proposals recommended for funding and make final funding selections, in accordance with ranking factors identified in the announcement.

(4) Selected proposals and associated funding will be provided to the State Conservationist to enter into WREP agreements with the eligible partner to carry out the project.
