
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1467 - WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
###### ยง 1467.15 Violations and remedies.
####### Easement violations.

(a)(1) In the event of a violation of the easement, 30-year contract, or any restoration cost-share agreement involving the participant, the participant shall be given reasonable notice and an opportunity to voluntarily correct the violation within 30 days of the date of the notice, or such additional time as the State Conservationist determines is necessary to correct the violation at the landowner's expense.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, NRCS reserves the right to enter upon the easement area at any time to remedy deficiencies or easement violations. Such entry may be made at the discretion of NRCS when such actions are deemed necessary to protect important wetland functions and values or other rights of the United States under the easement. The participant shall be liable for any costs incurred by the United States as a result of the participant's negligence or failure to comply with easement or contractual obligations.

(3) At any time there is a material breach of the easement covenants or any associated agreement, the easement shall remain in force and NRCS may withhold or require the refund of any easement and cost-share payments owed or paid to participants. Such withheld or refunded funds may be used to offset costs incurred by the United States in any remedial actions or retained as damages pursuant to court order or settlement agreement. This remedy is in addition to any and all legal or equitable remedies available to the United States under applicable Federal or State law.

(4) The United States shall be entitled to recover any and all administrative and legal costs, including attorney's fees or expenses, associated with any enforcement or remedial action.
