
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1468 - AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION EASEMENT PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1468.1 Applicability.

(a) The regulations in this part set forth requirements, policies, and procedures for implementation of the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP) administered by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). ACEP purposes include:

(1) Combining the purposes and coordinating the functions of the Wetlands Reserve Program established under section 1237, the Grassland Reserve Program established under section 1238N, and the Farmland Protection Program established under section 1238I, as such sections were in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Agricultural Act of 2014;

(2) Restoring, protecting, and enhancing wetlands on eligible land;

(3) Protecting the agricultural use and future viability, and related conservation values, of eligible land by limiting nonagricultural uses of that land that negatively affect the agricultural uses and conservation values; and

(4) Protecting grazing uses and related conservation values by restoring or conserving eligible land.

(b) The NRCS Chief may implement ACEP in any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(c) Subpart B of this part sets forth additional requirements, policies, and procedures for implementation of the Agricultural Land Easements (ALE) component of ACEP.

(d) Subpart C of this part sets forth additional requirements, policies, and procedures for the Wetland Reserve Easement (WRE) component of ACEP.

(e) Easement lands previously enrolled under the predecessor programs Farm and Ranch Lands Protection Program (7 CFR part 1491), the Grassland Reserve Program (7 CFR part 1415), and the Wetlands Reserve Program (7 CFR part 1467) are considered enrolled in ACEP. Existing easements and agreements remain valid and enforceable, and subject to the legal framework in place at the time of enrollment, except that the long-term stewardship and management of these easements, and any ACEP funding made available for implementation, will be in accordance with this part.
