
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 28 - COTTON CLASSING, TESTING, AND STANDARDS
###### Subpart D - Cotton Classification and Market News Service for Producers
####### Classification
######## § 28.910 Classification of samples and issuances of classification data.

(a)(1) The samples submitted as provided in the subpart shall be classified by employees of the Division, and classification memoranda showing the official quality determination of each sample according to the official cotton standards of the United States shall be issued by any one of the following methods at no additional charge:

(i) Electronic means; or

(ii) Telecommunications, with all long distance telephone line charges paid by the receiver of data.

(2) When an additional copy of the classification memorandum is issued by any method listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, there will be a charge determined as described in § 28.116. If provided as an additional method of data transfer, the minimum fee for each method issued shall also be determined as described in § 28.116.

(b) Owners of cotton, other than producers, may receive classification data showing the official quality determination of each sample by means of telecommunications from a central database to be maintained by the Division. The fee for this service shall be determined as described in § 28.116, with all communication charges paid by the receiver of data.

(c) Upon request of an owner of cotton for which classification memoranda have been issued under the subpart, a new memorandum shall be issued for the business convenience of such owner without the reclassification of the cotton. Such rewritten memorandum shall bear the date of its issuance and the date or inclusive dates of the original classification. The per-hour fee for a new memorandum shall be determined according to § 28.116, with a minimum per-sheet fee determined under the same provisions.
