
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1468 - AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION EASEMENT PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Agricultural Land Easements
####### ยง 1468.25 Agricultural land easement deeds.

(a) Under ACEP-ALE, a landowner grants an easement to an eligible entity with which NRCS has entered into an ALE-agreement. The easement deed will require that the easement area be maintained in accordance with ACEP-ALE goals and objectives for the term of the easement.

(b) The term of an agricultural land easement must be in perpetuity, except where State law prohibits a permanent easement. In such cases where State law limits the term of a conservation easement, the easement term will be for the maximum duration allowed under State law.

(c) The eligible entity may use its own terms and conditions in the agricultural land easement deed, but the agricultural land easement deed must provide for the effective administration, management, and enforcement of the agricultural land easement by the eligible entity or its successors and assigns and must address the deed requirements as specified by this part and by NRCS in the ALE-agreement.

(d) All deeds, as further specified in the ALE-agreement, must address the following regulatory deed requirements:

(1) Include a right of enforcement clause for NRCS. NRCS will specify the terms for the right of enforcement clause, including that such interest in the agricultural land easement:

(i) May be used only if the terms and conditions of the easement are not enforced by the eligible entity;

(ii) Extends to a right of inspection only if the holder of the easement fails to provide monitoring reports in a timely manner or NRCS has a reasonable and articulable belief that the terms and conditions of the easement have been violated;

(iii) Remains in effect for the duration of the easement and any changes that affect NRCS's interest in the agricultural land easement must be reviewed and approved by NRCS under ยง 1468.6 of this part.

(2) Specify that impervious surfaces will not exceed 2 percent of the ACEP-ALE easement area, excluding NRCS-approved conservation practices unless NRCS grants a waiver as follows:

(i) The eligible entity may request a waiver of the 2-percent impervious surface limitation at the time an individual parcel is approved for funding,

(ii) NRCS may waive the 2-percent impervious surface limitation on an individual easement basis, provided that no more than 10 percent of the easement area is covered by impervious surfaces,

(iii) Before waiving the 2 percent limitation, NRCS will consider, at a minimum, population density; the ratio of open, prime, and other important farmland versus impervious surfaces on the easement area; the impact to water quality concerns in the area; the type of agricultural operation; parcel size; and the purposes for which the easement is being acquired,

(iv) Eligible entities may submit an impervious surface limitation waiver process to NRCS for review and consideration. The eligible entities must apply any approved impervious surface limitation waiver processes on an individual easement basis, and

(v) NRCS will not approve blanket waivers or entity blanket waiver processes of the impervious surface limitation. All ACEP-ALE easements must include language limiting the extent of impervious surfaces within the easement area.

(3) Include an indemnification clause requiring the landowner to indemnify and hold harmless the United States from any liability arising from or related to the property enrolled in ACEP-ALE.
