
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1469 - CONSERVATION SECURITY PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Contracts and Payments
####### ยง 1469.23 Program payments.
######## Eligible enhancement payments.

(5)(i) State Conservationists, with advice from the State Technical Committees, will develop proposed enhancement payment amounts for each practice and activity.

(ii) An enhancement payment will be made to encourage a producer to perform or continue a management practice or activity, resource assessment and evaluation project, or field-test a research, demonstration, or pilot project that produces enhanced environmental performance and benefits or produces information and data to improve a resource concern or update the NRCS technical guides. Enhancement payments will be:

(A) For activities where NRCS can demonstrate the economic value of the environmental benefits, based on a given activity's expected environmental benefit value. The payment may not exceed the activity's expected economic value; or

(B) For activities where NRCS cannot demonstrate the economic value of the environmental benefits, a rate that will not exceed a producer's cost to implement a given activity.

(iii) NRCS will post the list of approved enhancement activities and payment amounts for each activity concurrent with the CSP sign-up notice.

(6) The Chief may set a not-to-exceed limit or variable payment rate for the enhancement payment in any given sign-up notice.

(7) Enhancements above the minimum criteria for the resource concern that are included in the benchmark inventory may be included in the first CSP payment.

(e) Contracts will be limited as follows:

(1) $20,000 per year for a Tier I conservation stewardship contract,

(2) $35,000 per year for a Tier II conservation stewardship contract, or

(3) $45,000 per year for a Tier III conservation stewardship contract.

(4) Stewardship components of CSP payments cannot exceed $5,000 per year for Tier I, $10,500 per year for Tier II, or $13,500 per year for Tier III.

(5) The new practice payment will not exceed 50 percent of the average county costs of installing the practice (or a similar practice, if new) in the 2001 crop year with the exception of beginning and limited resource producers, in which case the new practice payment may be up to 65 percent.

(f) The new practice and enhancement components of the conservation stewardship contract payment may increase once the participant applies and agrees to maintain additional conservation practices and activities as described in the conservation stewardship plan.

(g) The Chief of NRCS may limit the stewardship, practice, and enhancement components of CSP payments in order to focus funding toward targeted activities and conservation benefits the Chief identifies in the sign-up notice and any subsequent addenda.

(h) In the event that annual funding is insufficient to fund existing contract commitments, the existing contracts will be pro-rated in that contract year.

(i) NRCS may not make any payments to participants for:

(1) Practices within their conservation stewardship plan that are required to meet conservation compliance requirements found in 7 CFR Part 12;

(2) Practices that are included in maintenance agreements (with financial reimbursements for maintenance) that existed prior to the conservation stewardship contract approval;

(3) Construction or maintenance of animal waste storage or treatment facilities or associated waste transport or transfer devices for animal feeding operations;

(4) The purchase or maintenance of equipment;

(5) A non-land based structure that is not integral to a land based practice, as determined by the Chief; or

(6) New practices that were applied with cost-share assistance through other USDA cost-share programs.
