
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans, Purchases, and Other Operations
##### PART 1470 - CONSERVATION STEWARDSHIP PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - General Administration
####### § 1470.37 Environmental credits for conservation improvements.

(a) NRCS will not prohibit a participant under this part from participating in, and receiving compensation from, an environmental services market if one of the purposes of the market is the facilitation of additional conservation benefits that are consistent with CSP purposes, as determined by NRCS. CSP participation may create environmental benefits that qualify for environmental credits under an environmental credit-trading program. NRCS will not prohibit a participant under this part from participating in, or receiving compensation from, an environmental credit-trading program, and NRCS asserts no direct or indirect interest in these credits. However, in addition, any requirements or standards of an environmental market program in which a CSP participant simultaneously enrolls to receive environmental credits must be compatible with the purposes and requirements of the CSP contract and with this part. NRCS retains the authority to ensure that CSP purposes are met and that one of the purposes of the market is the facilitation of additional conservation benefits that are consistent with CSP purposes.

(b) The participant must meet all operation and maintenance requirements for CSP-funded activities, consistent with §§ 1470.21 and 1470.23. Where activities required under an environmental credit agreement may affect the land and conservation activities under a CSP contract, NRCS recommends that CSP participants request assistance with the development of a compatibility assessment prior to entering into any credit agreement. The CSP contract may be modified in accordance with policies outlined in § 1470.25 provided the modifications meet CSP purposes and is in compliance with this part.

(c) CSP participants may not use CSP funds to implement conservation practices and activities that the participant is required to establish because of a court order.
