
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1484 - PROGRAMS TO HELP DEVELOP FOREIGN MARKETS FOR AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart E - Reporting, Evaluation, and Compliance
####### ยง 1484.74 Compliance reviews and notices.

(a) USDA staff may conduct compliance reviews of a Cooperator's activities under this program to ensure compliance with this part, applicable Federal laws and regulations, and the terms of the agreements and approval letters. Cooperators shall cooperate fully with relevant USDA staff conducting compliance reviews and shall comply with all requests from USDA staff to facilitate the conduct of such reviews. Program funds spent inappropriately or on unapproved activities must be returned to CCC.

(b) Any project or activity funded under the program is subject to review or audit at any time during the course of implementation or after the completion of the project.

(c) Upon conclusion of the compliance review, USDA staff will provide a written compliance report to the Cooperator. The compliance report will detail any instances where it appears that the Cooperator is not complying with any of the terms or conditions of the agreement, approval letter, or the applicable laws and regulations. The report will also specify if it appears that CCC may be entitled to recover funds from the Cooperator and will explain the basis for any recovery of funds from the Cooperator. If, as a result of a compliance review, CCC determines that further review is needed in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Cooperator program, CCC may require the Cooperator to contract for an independent audit.

(d) In addition, CCC may notify a Cooperator in writing at any time if CCC determines that CCC may be entitled to recover funds from the Cooperator. CCC will explain the basis for any recovery of funds from the Cooperator in the written notice. The Cooperator shall, within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice, repay CCC the amount owed either by submitting a check payable to CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The Cooperator shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC. If, however, a Cooperator notifies CCC within 30 calendar days of the date of the written notice that the Cooperator intends to file an appeal pursuant to the provisions of this part, the amount owed to CCC by the Cooperator is not due until the appeal procedures are concluded and CCC has made a final determination as to the amount owed.

(e) The fact that a compliance review has been conducted by USDA staff does not signify that a Cooperator is in full compliance with its agreement, approval letter, and/or applicable laws and regulations.
