
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1484 - PROGRAMS TO HELP DEVELOP FOREIGN MARKETS FOR AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart D - Contribution and Reimbursements
####### ยง 1484.55 Advances.
######## Exception.

(b)Upon request, CCC may make two types of advance payments to a Cooperator. The first is a revolving fund operating advance provided by CCC only to Cooperators with foreign offices supported with project funds. The second is a special advance payment used to pay an impending large cost item. CCC will provide this type of advance expense payment in lieu of direct payments by CCC to vendors or other third parties. All Cooperators, with or without project fund-supported foreign offices, are eligible to request special advance payments. CCC will not make any special advance payment to a Cooperator where a special advance is outstanding from a prior program year. When approving a request for an advance, CCC may require the Cooperator to carry adequate fidelity bond coverage when the absence of such coverage is considered to create an unacceptable risk to the interests of the Cooperator program. Whether an "unacceptable risk" exists in a particular situation will depend on a number of factors, such as, the Cooperator's history of performance in the Cooperator program, the Cooperator's perceived financial stability and resources, and any other factors presented in the particular situation that may reflect on the Cooperator's responsibility or the riskiness of its activities.
