
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1484 - PROGRAMS TO HELP DEVELOP FOREIGN MARKETS FOR AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart E - Reporting, Evaluation, and Compliance
####### ยง 1484.72 Evaluation.

(a) The Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993 (5 U.S.C. 306, 31 U.S.C. 1105, 1115-1119, 3515, 9703-9704) requires performance measurement of Federal programs, including the Cooperator program. Evaluation of the Cooperator program's effectiveness will depend on a clear statement by each Cooperator of the constraints and opportunities facing U.S. exports, goals to be met within a specified time, a schedule of measurable milestones for gauging success, a plan for achievement, and reports of activity results at regular intervals. The overall goal of Cooperators' programming is to achieve or maintain sales that would not have occurred in the absence of FMD funding. A Cooperator that can demonstrate such sales, taking into account extenuating factors beyond the Cooperator's control, will have met the overall objective of the GPRA and the need for evaluation.

(b) Evaluation is an integral element of program planning and implementation, providing the basis for the strategic plan. The evaluation results guide the development and scope of a Cooperator's program, contribute to program accountability, and provide evidence of program effectiveness.

(c) When required by CCC, a Cooperator shall complete a program evaluation. A program evaluation is a review of the Cooperator's entire program, or an appropriate portion of the program as agreed to by the Cooperator and CCC, to determine the effectiveness of the Cooperator's strategy in meeting specified goals. The actual scope and timing of the program evaluation shall be determined by the Cooperator and CCC and specified in the Cooperator's approval letter. A Cooperator may contract with an independent evaluator to satisfy this requirement, although CCC reserves the right to have direct input and control over the design, scope, and methodology of any such evaluation, including direct contact with and provision of guidance to the independent evaluator. In addition to the requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200, a program evaluation shall contain:

(1) The name of the party conducting the evaluation;

(2) The activities covered by the evaluation;

(3) A concise statement of the constraint(s) and opportunities and the goals specified in the approved agreement;

(4) A description of the evaluation methodology;

(5) A description of additional export sales achieved, including the ratio of additional export sales in relation to Cooperator program funding received;

(6) A summary of the findings, including an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the program(s); and

(7) Recommendations for future programs.

(d) A Cooperator shall submit, via a cover letter to CCC, an executive summary that assesses the program evaluation's findings and recommendations and proposed changes in program strategy or design as a result of the evaluation.

(e) On an annual basis, or more often when appropriate or required by CCC, a Cooperator shall complete and submit program success stories. CCC will announce to all Cooperators the detailed requirements for completing and submitting program success stories.
