
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.10 General purpose and scope.
######## et seq.

(3) In addition to the provisions of this subpart, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the MAP, to the extent that these regulations do not directly conflict with the provisions of this subpart. The provisions of the CCC Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714) and any other statutory or regulatory provisions that are generally applicable to CCC also apply to the MAP.

(c) Under the MAP, CCC may provide grants to eligible U.S. entities to conduct certain marketing and promotion activities aimed at developing, maintaining, or expanding commercial export markets for U.S. agricultural commodities. MAP Participants may receive assistance for either generic or brand promotion activities. While activities generally take place overseas, reimbursable activities may also take place in the United States. CCC expects all activities that occur in the United States for which MAP reimbursement is sought to develop, maintain, or expand the commercial export market for the relevant U.S. agricultural commodity in accordance with the MAP Participant's approved MAP program.

(d) The MAP generally operates on a reimbursement basis.

(e) CCC's policy is to ensure that benefits generated by MAP agreements are broadly available throughout the relevant agricultural sector and that no single entity gains an undue advantage or sole benefit from program activities. CCC also endeavors to enter into MAP agreements covering a broad array of agricultural commodity sectors. The MAP is administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) acting on behalf of CCC.
