
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.18 Reimbursement procedures.

(a) Following the implementation of a project for which CCC has agreed to provide funding, a Participant may submit claims for reimbursement of eligible expenses incurred in implementing MAP activities, to the extent that CCC has agreed to pay such expenses. Any changes to approved activities must be approved in writing by CCC before any reimbursable expenses associated with the change can be incurred. A Participant will be reimbursed after CCC reviews the claim and determines that it is complete.

(b) All claims for reimbursement shall be submitted by the MAP Participant's U.S. office to CCC. CCC will make all payments to Participants in U.S. dollars. FAS will initiate payment within 30 days after receipt of the billing, unless the billing is improper.

(c) Participants will be authorized to submit requests for reimbursement or advance at least monthly when electronic fund transfers (EFTs) are not used, and as frequently as desired when electronic transfers are used, in accordance with the provisions of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693-1693r).

(d) CCC will not reimburse claims submitted later than 6 months after the end of a MAP Participant's program year.

(e) If CCC overpays a reimbursement claim, the MAP Participant shall repay CCC within 30 calendar days of such overpayment the amount of the overpayment either by submitting a check payable to CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The MAP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC.

(f) If a MAP Participant receives a reimbursement or offsets an advanced payment which is later disallowed, the MAP Participant shall repay CCC within 30 calendar days of such disallowance the amount disallowed either by submitting a check payable to CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The MAP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC.

(g) MAP funds may be expended by MAP Participants only on legitimate, approved activities as set forth in the agreement and approval letter. If a MAP Participant discovers that MAP funds have not been properly spent, it shall notify CCC and shall within 30 calendar days of its discovery repay CCC the amount owed either by submitting a check payable to CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The MAP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC.

(h) The MAP Participant shall report any actions that may have a bearing on the propriety of any claims for reimbursement in writing to the appropriate Attach&#xE9;/Counselor and its U.S. office shall report such actions in writing to the appropriate FAS Division Director.
