
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.17 Reimbursement rules.
######## e.g.,

(32) Entertainment,amusements, diversions, cover charges, personal gifts, or tickets to theatrical or sporting events;

(33) Refreshments, or related equipment, for office staff; and

(34) Expenditures associated with a MAP Participant's creation or review of their fraud prevention program, contracting procedures, or brand program operational procedures.

(e) Paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section shall apply to the approval of Supergrades.

(1) With respect to individuals who are not U.S. citizens and who are hired by MAP Participants either as employees or contractors acting as employees, CCC will not ordinarily reimburse any portion of such individual's compensation that exceeds the compensation prescribed for the most comparable position in the FSN salary plan applicable to the country in which the employee or contractor works. However, a MAP Participant may seek a higher level of reimbursement for a non-U.S. citizen employee or contractor who will be employed as a country director or regional director by requesting that CCC approve that employee or contractor as a Supergrade.

(2) To request approval of a Supergrade, the MAP Participant shall provide CCC with a detailed description of both the duties and responsibilities of the position and the qualifications and background of the employee or contractor concerned. The Participant shall also justify why the comparable FSN salary level is insufficient.

(3) Where a non-U.S. citizen employee or contractor will be employed as a country director, the MAP Participant may request approval for a "Supergrade I" salary level, equivalent to a single grade increase over the existing top grade of the FSN salary plan. The Supergrade I and its step increases are calculated by increasing each of the steps in the top FSN grade by the percentage difference between the second highest and the highest grade in the FSN salary plan. Where the non-U.S. citizen employee or contractor will be employed as a regional director, with responsibility for activities and/or offices in more than one country, the MAP Participant may request approval for a "Supergrade II" salary level, which is calculated relative to a Supergrade I in the same way the latter is calculated relative to the highest grade in the FSN salary plan.

(4) A U.S. citizen with dual citizenship with another foreign country or countries shall not be considered a non-U.S. citizen.

(f) For a brand promotion activity, CCC will reimburse no more than 50 percent of the total eligible expenditures made on that activity.

(g) CCC will reimburse for expenditures made after the conclusion of a MAP Participant's program year provided:

(1) The activity was approved by CCC prior to the end of the program year;

(2) The activity was completed within 30 calendar days following the end of the program year; and

(3) All expenditures were made for the activity within 6 months following the end of the program year.

(h) A MAP Participant shall not use MAP funds for any activity, or any expenses incurred by the MAP Participant prior to the date specified in the approval letter or after the date the agreement is suspended or terminated, except as otherwise permitted by CCC.

(i) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, MAP-funded travel shall conform to the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 300 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, and MAP-funded air travel shall conform to the requirements of the Fly America Act (49 U.S.C. 40118). The MAP Participant shall notify the Attach&#xE9;/Counselor in the destination country(ies) in writing in advance of any proposed travel. The timing of such notice should be far enough in advance to enable the Attach&#xE9;/Counselor to schedule appointments, make preparations, or otherwise provide any assistance being requested. Failure to provide advance notification of travel generally will result in disallowance of the expenses related to the travel, unless CCC determines it was impractical to provide such notification.

(j) CCC may determine, at CCC's discretion, whether any cost not expressly listed in this section will be reimbursed.
