
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.19 Advances.
######## Exception.

(b)A MAP Participant may request an advance of MAP funds from CCC for generic promotion activities, provided the MAP Participant meets the criteria for advance payments in 2 CFR part 200. CCC will not approve any request for an advance submitted after the end of a MAP Participant's program year. At any given time, total payments advanced shall not exceed 40 percent of a MAP Participant's total approved generic activity budget for the program year. CCC will not advance funds to a MAP Participant for brand promotion activities. When approving a request for an advance, CCC may require the MAP Participant to carry adequate fidelity bond coverage when the absence of such coverage is considered to create an unacceptable risk to the interests of the MAP. Whether an "unacceptable risk" exists in a particular situation will depend on a number of factors, such as, for example, the Participant's history of performance in the MAP, the Participant's perceived financial stability and resources, and any other factors presented in the particular situation that may reflect on the Participant's responsibility or the riskiness of its activities.
