
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.23 Evaluation.

(a)(1) The Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993 (5 U.S.C. 306; 31 U.S.C. 1105, 1115-1119, 3515, 9703-9704) requires performance measurement of Federal programs, including the MAP. Evaluation of the MAP's effectiveness will depend on a clear statement by Participants of the constraints and opportunities facing U.S. exports, goals to be met within a specified time, schedule of measurable milestones for gauging success, plan for achievement, and assessment of results of activities at regular intervals. The overall goal of the MAP and of individual Participants' programming is to achieve or maintain sales that would not have occurred in the absence of MAP funding. A MAP Participant that can demonstrate such sales, taking into account extenuating factors beyond the Participant's control, will have met the overall objective of the GPRA and the need for evaluation.

(2) Evaluation is an integral element of program planning and implementation, providing the basis for the strategic plan. The evaluation results guide the development and scope of a MAP Participant's program, contribute to program accountability, and provide evidence of program effectiveness.

(b) When required by CCC, a MAP Participant shall complete a program evaluation. A program evaluation is a review of the MAP Participant's entire program, or an appropriate portion of the program as agreed to by the MAP Participant and CCC, to determine the effectiveness of the MAP Participant's strategy in meeting specified goals. The actual scope and timing of the program evaluation shall be determined by the MAP Participant and CCC and specified in the approval letter. A MAP Participant may contract with an independent evaluator to satisfy this requirement, although CCC reserves the right to have direct input and control over the design, scope, and methodology of any such evaluation, including direct contact with and provision of guidance to the independent evaluator. A MAP Participant shall submit, via a cover letter to CCC, an executive summary that assesses the program evaluation's findings and recommendations and proposed changes in program strategy or design as a result of the evaluation. In addition to the requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200, a program evaluation shall contain:

(1) The name of the party conducting the evaluation;

(2) The scope of the evaluation;

(3) A concise statement of the market constraint(s)/opportunity(ies) and the goals specified in the approved strategic plan;

(4) A description of the evaluation methodology;

(5) A description of additional export sales achieved, including the ratio of additional export sales in relation to the MAP Participant's program funding received;

(6) A summary of the findings, including an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the program(s); and

(7) Recommendations for future programs.

(c) MAP Participants conducting a branded program must also complete a brand promotion evaluation. A brand promotion evaluation is a review of the U.S. and foreign commercial entities' export sales to determine whether the activity achieved the goals specified in the approved MAP program. This evaluation shall be completed and submitted to CCC no later than 6 months following the end of the Participant's program year.

(d) On an annual basis, or more often when appropriate or required by CCC, a MAP Participant shall complete and submit program success stories. CCC will announce to all MAP Participants the detailed requirements for completing and submitting program success stories.
