
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.31 Anti-fraud requirements.
######## MAP Participants with brand programs.

(b)(1) The MAP Participant may charge a fee to brand participants to cover the cost of the fraud prevention program.

(2) The MAP Participant shall repay to CCC funds paid to a brand participant through the MAP Participant on claims that the MAP Participant or CCC subsequently determines are unauthorized or otherwise non-reimbursable expenses within 30 calendar days of the MAP Participant's determination or CCC's disallowance. The MAP Participant shall repay CCC by submitting a check to CCC or by offsetting the MAP Participant's next reimbursement claim. The MAP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC. A MAP Participant operating a brand program in strict accordance with an approved fraud prevention program, however, will not be liable to reimburse CCC for MAP funds paid on such claims if the claims were based on misrepresentations or fraud of the brand participant, its employees, or agents, unless CCC determines that the MAP Participant was grossly negligent in the operation of the brand program regarding such claims. CCC shall communicate any such determination to the MAP Participant in writing.
