
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.28 Ethical conduct.

(a) A MAP Participant shall conduct its business in accordance with the laws and regulations of the country(s) in which an activity is carried out and in accordance with applicable U.S. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations. A MAP Participant shall conduct its business in the United States in accordance with applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations.

(b) Except for a U.S. agricultural cooperative or a U.S. for-profit entity, neither a MAP Participant nor its affiliates shall make export sales of eligible commodities covered under the terms of the applicable MAP agreement. Nor shall such entities charge a fee for facilitating an export sale. A MAP Participant may, however, collect check-off funds and membership fees that are required for membership in the MAP Participant's organization.

(c) A MAP Participant shall not limit participation in its MAP activities to members of its organization. Participants shall ensure that their MAP-funded programs and activities are open to all otherwise qualified individuals and entities on an equal basis and without regard to any non-merit factors. The MAP Participant shall publicize its program and make participation possible for commercial entities throughout the relevant commodity sector or, in the case of SRTGs, throughout the corresponding region. This includes providing to such commercial entities, upon request, a copy of any document in its possession or control containing market information developed and produced under the terms of its MAP agreement. The Participant may charge a fee not to exceed the costs for assembling, duplicating, and distributing the materials. This paragraph does not apply to U.S. agricultural cooperatives when implementing their own brand program.

(d) A MAP Participant shall select U.S. agricultural industry representatives to participate in generic MAP activities such as trade teams, sales teams, and trade fairs based on criteria that ensure participation on an equitable basis by a broad cross section of the U.S. industry. If requested by CCC, a MAP Participant shall submit such selection criteria to CCC for approval.

(e) All MAP Participants should endeavor to ensure fair and accurate fact-based advertising. Deceptive or misleading promotions may result in cancellation or termination of a MAP Participant's agreement and the recovery of CCC funds related to such promotions from the Participant.

(f) The MAP Participant must report any actions or circumstances that may have a bearing on the propriety of its MAP program to the appropriate Attach&#xE9;/Counselor, and its U.S. office shall report such actions or circumstances in writing to CCC.
