
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1485 - GRANT AGREEMENTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF FOREIGN MARKETS FOR U.S. AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart B - Market Access Program
####### ยง 1485.30 Property standards.

(a) A Participant shall maintain an inventory of all personal property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $500 or more that was acquired in furtherance of program activities. The inventory shall list and number each item and include the date of purchase or acquisition, cost of purchase, replacement value, serial number, make, model, and electrical requirements, as applicable.

(b) The Participant shall insure all real property and equipment that was acquired, in whole or in part, with MAP funds at a level minimally equal to the equivalent insurance coverage for property owned by the Participant. The Participant shall safeguard such property and equipment against theft, damage, and unauthorized use. The Participant shall promptly report any loss, theft, or damage of such property and equipment to the insurance company.

(c) Personal property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $500 or more purchased by the Participant, and for which the Participant is reimbursed, in whole or in part, with MAP funds, that is unusable, unserviceable, or no longer needed for project purposes shall be disposed of in one of the following ways. The Participant may:

(1) Exchange or sell the property, provided that it applies any exchange allowance, insurance proceeds, or sales proceeds toward the purchase of other property needed in the project;

(2) With CCC approval, transfer the property to other Participants for their activities, or to a foreign entity; or

(3) Upon Attach&#xE9;/Counselor approval, donate the property to a local charity, or convey the property to the Attach&#xE9;/Counselor, along with an itemized inventory list and any documents of title.

(d) The Participant is responsible for reimbursing CCC for the value of any uninsured property at the time of the loss or theft of the property.
