
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1486 - EMERGING MARKETS PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Information
####### ยง 1486.100 General purpose and scope.
######## et seq.

(3) In addition to the provisions of this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, IV, also apply to the EMP, to the extent that these regulations do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part. The provisions of the CCC Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714) and any other statutory or regulatory provisions that are generally applicable to CCC also apply to the EMP.

(d) Under the EMP, CCC provides grants to eligible U.S. private or government entities who demonstrate a role or interest in the export of U.S. agricultural commodities to conduct assessments of food and rural business system needs of emerging markets, make recommendations on measures necessary to enhance the effectiveness of such systems, including potential reductions in trade barriers, and identify and carry out specific opportunities and projects to enhance the effectiveness of such systems. The EMP may only be used to support exports of U.S. agricultural commodities through generic activities.

(e) Only initiatives that support the export of U.S. agricultural commodities are eligible for assistance under the program. The program's resources may not be used to support the export of another country's products to the United States or another country, or to promote the development of a foreign economy as a primary objective.

(f) The EMP generally operates on a reimbursement basis. The program is administered by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) acting on behalf of CCC.

(g) EMP recipients are responsible for complying with all applicable laws and regulations.
