
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1486 - EMERGING MARKETS PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Cost Share and Reimbursements
####### ยง 1486.403 Reimbursement rules.

(a) A Recipient may seek reimbursement for an eligible expenditure if:

(1) The expenditure was necessary and reasonable for the performance of an approved activity; and

(2) The Recipient has not been and will not be reimbursed for such expenditure by any other source.

(b) Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, as well as applicable cost principles in 2 CFR part 200, to the extent these principles do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part, CCC will reimburse, in whole or in part, the cost of:

(1) Salaries and benefits of the Recipient's existing personnel or any other participating entity that are directly assigned to EMP-funded projects. Salaries of administrative and clerical staff should normally be treated as indirect costs. Federal, state, and local government Recipients may not be reimbursed for salaries and benefits. Reimbursement of salaries and benefits for other Recipients is limited to:

(i) The actual daily rate paid by the Recipient for the employee's salary or the daily rate of a GS-15, Step 10 U.S. Government employee in effect during the calendar year in which the project or activity is approved for funding, whichever is less;

(ii) The actual assigned time of the employee to the project; and

(iii) Benefits at a maximum rate of 30 percent of the existing salary of the employee, prorated to the time assigned to the project, provided that such benefits are required and granted pursuant to the Recipient's established written policies.

(2) Consulting fees for professional services, limited to the daily rate of a GS-15, Step 10 U.S. Government employee in effect during the calendar year in which the project or activity is approved for funding. Reimbursement is authorized only for actual days worked and is not authorized for travel and rest days. Benefits are not reimbursable.

(3) STRE for social events or receptions that are primarily attended by foreign officials and that are held at foreign venues and are part of an approved activity. Such expenses must conform to the American Embassy representational funding guidelines as the standard for judging the appropriateness of the STRE costs. The amount of unauthorized STRE expenses that exceed the guidelines will not be reimbursed. Recipients must pay the difference between the total cost of STRE events and the appropriate amount as determined by the guidelines. STRE incurred in the United States is not authorized for reimbursement but may be counted as a cost share to the project.

(4) Travel expenses, subject to the following:

(i) All expenses while in travel status must conform to the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 300 through 304);

(ii) Air travel must comply with the Fly America Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1517) and is limited to the full-fare economy class rate;

(iii) Per diem is limited to the allowable rate for each domestic or foreign locale (41 CFR part 301-11). Expenses in excess of the authorized per diem rates may be allowed in special or unusual circumstances (41 CFR part 301-11), but must be approved in advance; and

(iv) The Recipient shall notify the Attach&#xE9;/Counselor in the destination countries in writing in advance of any proposed travel by the Recipient or its consultants or other Recipients. The timing of such notice should be far enough in advance to enable the Attach&#xE9;/Counselor to schedule appointments, make preparations, or otherwise provide any assistance being requested. Failure to provide advance notification of travel generally will result in disallowance of the expenses related to the travel, unless CCC determines it was impractical to provide such notification.

(5) Direct administrative costs.

(6) Indirect costs not identified as direct costs, but which are necessary for the implementation of a project. Indirect costs must be specified to be eligible for reimbursement. Indirect costs may be reimbursed up to a maximum of 10 percent of the EMP-funded portion of the project budget, excluding indirect costs, except that Recipients in FAS' Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development Cooperator Program, SRTGs, for-profit entities, and government Recipients may not be reimbursed for indirect costs.

(7) Rental costs for equipment necessary to carry out approved projects. Equipment rentals must be returned by the Recipient to the supplier in accordance with the lease agreements, but in no case later than 90 calendar days from the completion date of the project.

(8) Procuring samples of specific agricultural commodities that are appropriate and necessary to the success of a technical assistance activity.
