
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1486 - EMERGING MARKETS PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Reporting, Evaluation, and Compliance
####### ยง 1486.507 Ethical conduct.

(a) The Recipient shall maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees engaged in the award and administration of contracts.

(b) A Recipient shall conduct its business in accordance with the laws and regulations of the country(s) in which each activity is carried out and in accordance with applicable U.S. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations. A Recipient shall conduct its business in the United States in accordance with applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations.

(c) Neither a Recipient nor its affiliates shall make export sales of U.S. agricultural commodities covered under the terms of an agreement. Neither a Recipient nor its affiliates shall charge a fee for facilitating an export sale. A Recipient may collect check-off funds and membership fees that are required for membership in the Recipient's organization.

(d) The Recipient shall not use program activities or project funds to promote private self-interests or conduct private business.

(e) A Recipient shall not limit participation in its EMP activities to members of its organization. Recipients shall ensure that their EMP-funded programs and activities are open to all otherwise qualified individuals and entities on an equal basis and without regard to any non-merit factors.

(f) A Recipient shall select U.S. agricultural industry representatives to participate in activities based on criteria that ensure participation on an equitable basis by a broad cross section of the U.S. industry. If requested by CCC, a Recipient shall submit such selection criteria to CCC for approval.

(g) The Recipient must report any actions or circumstances that may have a bearing on the propriety of program activities to the appropriate Attach&#xE9;/Counselor, and the Recipient's U.S. office shall report such actions or circumstances in writing to CCC.

(h) The officers, employees, board members, and agents of the Recipient shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, sub-contractors, or parties to sub-agreements. However, Recipients may set standards for situations in which the financial interest is not substantial, or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value. The standards of conduct shall provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by officers, employees, board members, or agents of the Recipient.
