
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1487 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SPECIALTY CROPS
###### ยง 1487.3 Program eligibility.

(a) An eligible organization can submit an application under this part to become a Participant under the TASC Program. FAS will set forth specific eligibility information, including any factors or priorities that will affect the eligibility of an applicant or application for selection, in the full text of the applicable NOFO posted on the U.S. Government website for grant opportunities.

(b) In order to be eligible for funding under the TASC program, activities must address existing or potential sanitary, phytosanitary, or technical barriers to the export of U.S. specialty crops. Examples of expenses that CCC may agree to cover under the TASC program include but are not limited to expenses associated with: Initial pre-clearance programs, export protocol and work plan support, seminars and workshops, study tours, field surveys, development of pest lists, pest and disease research, database development, reasonable logistical and administrative support, and travel and per diem expenses.

(c) Eligible projects may take place in the United States or abroad.

(d) Proposals from research and consulting entities will be considered for funding assistance only with evidence of substantial participation in and financial support to the proposed project by U.S. industry. Such support is most credibly demonstrated through actual monetary contributions to the cost of the project.

(e) Foreign organizations, whether government or private, may participate as third parties in activities carried out by U.S. entities, but are not eligible for funding assistance from the program.
