
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1488 - FINANCING OF SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart A - Financing of Export Sales of Agricultural Commodities From Private Stocks Under CCC Export Credit Sales Program (GSM-5)
####### General
######## ยง 1488.1 General statement.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a), the regulations and the supplements thereto contained in this subpart A supersede the regulations and supplements revised April 1975, and set forth the terms and conditions governing the CCC Export Credit Sales Program (GSM-5). The maximum financing period shall be three years. The regulations and supplements as revised in April 1971 and April 1975, shall remain in effect for all transactions under financing approvals issued thereunder.

(b) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this subpart A, CCC will purchase for cash, after delivery, the exporter's account receivable arising from the export sale.

(c) The provisions of Pub. L. 83-664 are not applicable to shipments under this program.

(d) The regulations contained in this subpart A may be supplemented by such additional terms and conditions, applicable to specified agricultural commodities, and, to the extent that they may be in conflict or inconsistent with any other provisions of this subpart A, such additional terms and conditions shall prevail.
