
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1488 - FINANCING OF SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart A - Financing of Export Sales of Agricultural Commodities From Private Stocks Under CCC Export Credit Sales Program (GSM-5)
####### Financing Export Sales
######## ยง 1488.4 Submission of requests for sale registrations.

(a) An eligible exporter shall submit a request for a sale registration for financing to the office specified in ยง 1488.22.

(b) Requests for sale registrations shall be in writing. If such a request is made by telephone, it must be confirmed by letter or wire.

(c) The total amount requested to be registered under a sale shall not exceed the sale contract value, including the upward tolerance, if any.

(d) Requests for sale registration shall incorporate by reference all terms and conditions of GSM-5. The following information shall also be included in the exporter's request for a sale registration:

(1) The name, class, grade, or quality, as applicable, and quantity of the commodity to be exported.

(2) The country of destination.

(3) The port value of the commodity to be exported and the sale contract tolerance, if applicable.

(4) The date of sale and exporter's sale number.

(5) The date of delivery or the period for delivery and the month in which application for payment will be submitted.

(6) The financing period.

(7) Whether the bank obligation assuring payment of the account receivable will be issued by a U.S. bank, branch bank, or foreign bank. If it will be issued by a foreign bank, its name and address, and the name of the confirming U.S. bank, branch bank, or agency bank (if approved as provided in ยง 1488.12b), and the percentage of confirmation.

(8) The name and address of the foreign importer.

(9) If delivery of the commodity to be exported is before export in a warehouse, the name and address of the warehouse to which delivery is to be made.

(10) If the commodity will be sold through an intervening purchaser, the name and address of the intervening purchaser, and a statement that the sale of the commodity is or will be conditioned on its resale by the intervening purchaser and that the commodity will be shipped directly to the foreign importer in the destination country specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section pursuant to a contract in which the foreign importer agrees to pay the U.S. exporter the amount to be financed in accordance with the terms of GSM-5 financing agreement.

(11) Any additional information as determined by CCC.
