
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1488 - FINANCING OF SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart A - Financing of Export Sales of Agricultural Commodities From Private Stocks Under CCC Export Credit Sales Program (GSM-5)
####### Bank Obligations and Repayment
######## ยง 1488.12 Coverage of bank obligations.

(a) U.S. banks and branch banks shall be liable without regard to risk (1) for payment of bank obligations issued by them or (2) for payment of bank obligations confirmed by them without regard to risk if a requirement for such confirmation is included in the financing agreement or (3) as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(b) An obligation issued by a foreign bank must be confirmed and advised, as provided in paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, by a U.S. bank or a branch bank, or may be confirmed by an agency bank when determined by the President or Vice President, CCC after consultation with the Controller, CCC, to be in the interest of CCC.

(c) A U.S. bank must confirm the full amount of an obligation issued by its foreign branch. CCC will hold the U.S. bank liable for payment without regard to risks.

(d) If a branch bank confirms an obligation issued by its home office, or by another branch of its home office, it must confirm the full amount thereof. CCC will hold the branch bank liable for payment without regard to risks.

(e) If CCC accepts an agency bank confirmation of a foreign bank obligation, it must be for the full amount thereof without regard to risks and will be subject to such terms and conditions as may be contained in the financing agreement. CCC will not accept an agency bank confirmation of an obligation issued by its home office, or by a branch of its home office.

(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section, if a U.S. bank or a branch bank confirms an obligation issued by a foreign bank, it must confirm at least 10 percent pro rata and must advise the remainder of the foreign bank obligation. The percentage of confirmation shall be the same for both the account receivable and the interest portions of the obligation. For the confirmed amount, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, CCC will hold the U.S. bank or branch bank liable for commercial risks but not for non-commercial risks. For the advised amount, CCC will not hold the U.S. bank or branch bank liable for commercial or non-commercial risks. CCC will hold the foreign bank liable without regard to risks for all amounts not recovered from the U.S. or branch bank.

(g) Under special circumstances, on application in writing, the Vice President, CCC, may reduce or waive requirements for 10 percent confirmation by a U.S. or branch bank, but a bank will not be relieved of any obligation it undertakes.

(h) Any bank obligation which provides for a bank acceptance of a time draft by CCC (banker's acceptance) shall not be acceptable to CCC.

(i) CCC will consent to cancellation or reduction of a bank obligation to the extent of any payment it receives from other sources or amounts otherwise payable under such bank obligation.

(j) Collection of accounts receivable purchased under GSM-5 will be effected through the issuance by CCC of sight drafts against the bank obligations, but this method of collection shall not be exclusive of any other collection procedures or rights available to CCC.
