
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1488 - FINANCING OF SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart A - Financing of Export Sales of Agricultural Commodities From Private Stocks Under CCC Export Credit Sales Program (GSM-5)
####### Documents Required for Financing
######## ยง 1488.9 Evidence of export.

(a) If the commodity is exported by rail or truck, the exporter shall furnish to the Treasurer, CCC, one copy of the bill of lading covering the commodity exported, certified by the exporter as being a true copy, and an authenticated landing certificate or similar document issued by an official of the government of the country to which the commodity is exported, showing the quantity, the gross landed weight of the commodity, the place and date of entry, and the name and address of both the exporter and the importer.

(b) If the commodity is exported by ocean carrier, the exporter shall furnish to the Treasurer, CCC, one non-negotiable copy or photo copy or other type of copy of either (1) an on-board ocean bill of lading or (2) an ocean bill of lading with an onboard endorsement, dated and signed or initialed on behalf of the carrier. The bill of lading must be certified by the exporter as being a true copy and must show the quantity, the date and place of loading the commodity, the name of the vessel, the destination of the commodity and the name and address of both the exporter and the importer.

(c) If the commodity is exported by aircraft, the exporter shall furnish to the Treasurer, CCC, one non-negotiable copy of an airway bill, dated and signed or initialed on behalf of the carrier. The airway bill must be certified by the exporter as being a true copy and must show the date and place of loading the commodity, the name of the airline, the destination of the commodity, and the name and address of both the exporter and the importer.

(d) If the exporter is unable to supply documentary evidence of export as specified in this section, he shall submit such other documentary evidence as may be acceptable to CCC.

(e) For commodities transshipped through Canada via the Great Lakes or the St. Lawrence River, the exporter shall certify that the commodity transshipped was produced in the United States.
