
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1488 - FINANCING OF SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart A - Financing of Export Sales of Agricultural Commodities From Private Stocks Under CCC Export Credit Sales Program (GSM-5)
####### Bank Obligations and Repayment
######## ยง 1488.14 Interest charges.

The account receivable assigned to CCC and the related bank obligation(s) shall bear interest as specified in this section. Rates of interest applicable to financing agreements shall be published in USDA announcement. The interest rate applicable to that portion of an account receivable for which payment is assured by a bank obligation issued or confirmed for all risks according to ยง 1488.12(a)(ii) or pro rata confirmed by a U.S. bank shall be lower than the interest rate applicable for the remainder of the account receivable. The interest rate applicable to that portion of an account receivable the payment of which is assured by a bank obligation issued or pro rata confirmed by a branch bank shall, when determined by the President or Vice President, CCC after consultation with the Controller, CCC, to be in the interest of CCC, be lower than the interest rate applicable for the remainder of the account receivable. The interest rates applicable to accounts receivable the payment of which is assured by an agency bank confirmation may, when determined by the President or Vice President, CCC, after consultation with the Controller, CCC, to be in the interest of CCC, be lower than the interest rate applicable for the remainder of the account receivable. The interest rate applicable will be the rate in effect on the date CCC receives the sale registration request under ยง 1488.4. Interest shall accrue on the account receivable from the date of delivery or the weighted average delivery date of the agricultural commodities delivered under the financing agreement to the date of payment, or to the date of expiration of the financing period, or to the date of expiration of the bank obligation, whichever occurs first, and shall be payable as specified in the financing agreement. Thereafter, interest shall accrue on any unpaid part of both the principal and interest due as of such expiration date.
