
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1488 - FINANCING OF SALES OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES
###### Subpart A - Financing of Export Sales of Agricultural Commodities From Private Stocks Under CCC Export Credit Sales Program (GSM-5)
####### Bank Obligations and Repayment
######## ยง 1488.13 CCC drafts.

CCC will draw one draft for each payment due under bank obligations. If any portion of a CCC draft is dishonored, the U.S. bank or branch bank shall return the dishonored draft together with its statement of the reason for nonpayment. If a draft which is drawn under a partially confirmed bank obligation is dishonored, CCC will replace the draft with separate drafts for the confirmed and unconfirmed portions at the request of the confirming bank. Such replacement shall not alter the confirming bank's obligation for timely payment to CCC of the confirmed portion of the credit. For confirmed amounts, except as provided in ยง 1488.12(a), (c) and (d), a U.S. or branch bank may request refund from CCC of the amount paid if it certifies to CCC that it is unable to recover funds from the foreign bank due to a stipulated non-commercial risk which existed on the date payment was made to CCC under the draft. If CCC finds that inability to recover funds was due to such a non-commercial risk, the refund shall be promptly made together with interest at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York discount rate from and including the date payment was originally made to CCC but not include the date of refund by CCC. For unconfirmed amounts, remittance to CCC shall be considered final, and the U.S. bank or branch bank shall not thereafter have recourse to CCC.
