
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.10 General purpose and scope.
####### et seq.

(2) In addition, relevant provisions of the CCC Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714) and any other statutory provisions that are generally applicable to the CCC are also applicable to the ATP and the regulations set forth in this part.

(3) ATP Participants must also comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and related civil rights regulations and policies.

(4) Other laws and regulations that apply to the ATP and ATP Participants include, but are not limited to:

(i) 2 CFR part 25-Universal Identifier and Central Contractor Registration.

(ii) 2 CFR part 170-Reporting Subaward and Executive Compensation Information.

(iii) 2 CFR part 175-Award Term for Trafficking in Persons.

(iv) 2 CFR part 180-OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement).

(v) 2 CFR part 200-Office of Management and Budget Guidance, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.

(vi) 2 CFR part 400-Department of Agriculture, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.

(vii) 37 CFR part 401.1-Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements.

(viii) Executive Order 13224, as amended, Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism.

(c) Under the ATP, the CCC may provide multi-year grant assistance to eligible U.S. entities to conduct certain marketing and promotion activities, including activities to address existing or potential non-tariff trade barriers, aimed at developing, maintaining, or expanding commercial export markets for U.S. agricultural commodities. ATP Participants may receive assistance for either generic or brand promotion activities. While activities generally take place overseas, reimbursable activities may also take place in the United States. The CCC expects all activities that occur in the United States for which ATP reimbursement is sought to develop, maintain, or expand the commercial export market for the relevant U.S. agricultural commodity in accordance with the ATP Participant's approved ATP program. When considering eligible nonprofit U.S. trade organizations, the CCC gives priority to organizations that have the broadest producer representation and affiliated industry participation of the commodity being promoted.

(d) The ATP generally operates on a reimbursement basis.

(e) The CCC's policy is to ensure that benefits generated by ATP agreements are broadly available throughout the relevant agricultural sector and that no single entity gains an undue advantage. The CCC also endeavors to enter into ATP agreements covering a broad array of agricultural commodity sectors. The ATP is administered by personnel of the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) acting on behalf of the CCC.
