
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.10 General purpose and scope.
####### Grants.gov

(a) This part sets forth the general terms, conditions, and policies governing the Commodity Credit Corporation's (CCC) operation of the Agricultural Trade Promotion Program (ATP). This program will provide assistance to eligible organizations to conduct market promotion activities, including activities to address existing or potential non-tariff barriers to trade, that promote U.S. agricultural commodities in foreign markets. Specific program requirements will be set forth in future Notices of Funds Availability announced through thewebsite.

(b)(1) In addition to the provisions of this subpart, other regulations of general application issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), including the regulations set forth in Chapter XXX of this title, "Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture," may apply to the ATP and ATP participants, to the extent that these regulations of general application do not directly conflict with the provisions of this subpart. These include, but are not limited to:

(i) 7 CFR part 1, subpart A-Official Records.

(ii) 7 CFR part 3-Debt Management.

(iii) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A-Nondiscrimination.

(iv) 2 CFR part 417-Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Non-procurement).

(v) 2 CFR part 418-New Restrictions on Lobbying.

(vi) 2 CFR part 421-Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).

(vii) 48 CFR part 31-Contract Cost Principles and Procedures of the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
