
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart J - Procedures Relating to Awards Under the Equal Access to Justice Act in Proceedings Before the Department
##### Information Required From Applicants
###### ยง 1.190 Contents of application.

(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under EAJA shall identify the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business. The application shall also:

(1) Show that the applicant has prevailed and identify the position of the Department that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified and shall briefly state the basis for such allegation; or

(2) Show that the demand by the Department in the proceeding was substantially in excess of, and was unreasonable when compared with, the decision in the proceeding.

(b) The application also shall, as appropriate, include a declaration that the applicant is a small entity as defined in 5 U.S.C. 601 or a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates). However, an applicant may omit this statement if:

(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or

(2) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 114j(a)).

(c) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.

(d) The application also may include any other matters that the applicant wishes the Department to consider in determining whether, and in what amount, an award should be made.

(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It also shall contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or affirmation under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application and all accompanying material is true and complete to the best of the signer's information and belief.
