
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.18 Reimbursement procedures.

(a) Participants are required to use the CCC's UES system to request reimbursement for eligible ATP expenses. Claims for reimbursement shall contain the following information:

(1) Activity type-brand or generic;

(2) Activity number;

(3) Commodity aggregate code;

(4) Country code;

(5) Cost category;

(6) Amount to be reimbursed;

(7) If applicable, any reduction in the amount of reimbursement claimed to offset CCC demand for refund of amounts previously reimbursed and reference to the relevant compliance report or written notice; and

(8) If applicable, any amount previously claimed that has not been reimbursed.

(b) All claims for reimbursement shall be submitted by the ATP Participant's U.S. office to the CCC.

(c) CCC will not reimburse a claim for less than $10,000, except that the CCC will reimburse a final claim for an ATP Participant's program period for a lesser amount.

(d) The CCC will not reimburse claims submitted later than 6 months after the end of an ATP Participant's program period.

(e) If the CCC overpays a reimbursement claim, the ATP Participant shall repay the CCC within 30 days of such overpayment the amount of the overpayment either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The ATP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by the CCC.

(f) If an ATP Participant receives a reimbursement or offsets an advanced payment which is later disallowed, the ATP Participant shall repay the CCC within 30 days of such disallowance the amount disallowed either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The ATP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by the CCC.

(g) ATP funds may be expended by ATP Participants only on legitimate, approved activities as set forth in the program agreement and approval letter. If an ATP Participant discovers that ATP funds have not been properly spent, it shall notify the CCC and shall within 30 days of its discovery repay the CCC the amount owed either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The ATP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by the CCC.

(h) The ATP Participant shall report any actions that may have a bearing on the propriety of any claims for reimbursement in writing to CCC.
