
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.20 Financial management.

(a) An ATP Participant shall implement and maintain a financial management system that conforms to generally accepted accounting principles. An ATP Participant's financial management system shall comply with the standards in 2 CFR part 200.

(b) An ATP Participant shall institute internal controls and provide written guidance to commercial entities participating in its activities to ensure their compliance with these regulations.

(c) An ATP Participant shall retain all records concerning an ATP program transaction for a period of three years after completion of the program transaction and permit the CCC to have full and complete access, for such three year period, to such records. These records shall include all records pertaining to contractors.

(d) An ATP Participant shall maintain its records of expenditures and contributions in a manner that allows it to provide information by activity plan, country, activity number, and cost category. Such records shall include:

(1) Receipts for all STRE (actual vendor invoices or restaurant checks, rather than credit card receipts);

(2) Original receipts for any other program-related expenditure in excess of a set amount CCC will determine and announce in writing to all ATP Participants via an ATP notice issued on the FAS website. The CCC may, from time to time, set a different minimum amount. In that case, the CCC will announce the new amount in writing to all ATP Participants via an ATP notice issued on the FAS website;

(3) The exchange rate used to calculate the dollar equivalent of expenditures made in a foreign currency and the basis for such calculation;

(4) Copies of reimbursement claims;

(5) An itemized list of claims charged to each of the ATP Participant's CCC resources accounts;

(6) Documentation with accompanying English translation supporting each reimbursement claim, including original evidence to support the financial transactions such as canceled checks, receipted paid bills, contracts or purchase orders, per diem calculations, travel vouchers, and credit memos; and

(7) Documentation supporting contributions. These must include the dates, purpose, and location of the activity for which the cash or in-kind items were claimed as a contribution; who conducted the activity; the participating groups or individuals; and, the method of computing the claimed contributions. ATP Participants must retain and make available for compliance review documentation related to claimed contributions.

(e) Upon request, an ATP Participant shall provide to the CCC originals of documents supporting reimbursement claims.
