
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.22 Evaluation.

(a)(1) The Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993 (5 U.S.C. 306; 31 U.S.C. 1105, 1115-1119, 3515, 9703-9704) requires performance measurement of Federal programs, including the ATP. Evaluation of the ATP's effectiveness will depend on a clear statement by Participants of goals to be met within a specified time, schedule of measurable milestones for gauging success, plan for achievement, and assessment of results of activities at regular intervals. The overall goal of the ATP and of individual Participants' programming is to increase sales that would not have occurred in the absence of ATP funding. An ATP Participant that can demonstrate such sales, taking into account extenuating factors beyond the Participant's control, will have met the overall objective of the GPRA and the need for evaluation.

(2) Evaluation is an integral element of program planning and implementation, providing the basis for the strategic plan. The evaluation results guide the development and scope of an ATP Participant's program, contributing to program accountability, and providing evidence of program effectiveness that directly ties program funds to increased sales.

(b) All ATP Participants must report annual results against their target market and/or regional constraint/opportunity performance measures. These are outcome results usually based on multiple activities and should demonstrate progress made in the market. This report shall be completed and submitted to the CCC no later than 6 months following the end of the Participant's program period.

(c) ATP Participants conducting a branded program must also complete a brand promotion evaluation. A brand promotion evaluation is a review of the U.S. and foreign commercial entities' export sales to determine whether the activity achieved the goals specified in the approved ATP program. This evaluation shall be completed and submitted to CCC no later than 6 months following the end of the Participant's program period.

(d) When appropriate or required by the CCC, an ATP Participant shall complete a program evaluation. A program evaluation is a review of the ATP Participant's entire program, or an appropriate portion of the program as agreed to by the ATP Participant and CCC, to determine the effectiveness of the ATP Participant's strategy in meeting specified goals. Actual scope and timing of the program evaluation shall be determined by the ATP Participant and CCC and specified in the approval letter. An ATP Participant shall submit, via a cover letter to CCC, an executive summary that assesses the program evaluation's findings and recommendations and proposed changes in program strategy or design as a result of the evaluation. In addition to the requirements set forth in the applicable parts of this title (for example, 2 CFR part 200), a program evaluation shall contain:

(1) The name of the party conducting the evaluation;

(2) The scope of the evaluation;

(3) A concise statement of the market constraint(s)/opportunity(ies) and the goals specified in the approved strategic plan;

(4) A description of the evaluation methodology;

(5) A description of export sales achieved;

(6) A summary of the findings, including an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the program(s); and

(7) Recommendations for future programs.

(e) On an annual basis, or more often when appropriate or required by the CCC, an ATP Participant shall complete and submit program success stories. The CCC will announce to all ATP Participants in writing via an ATP notice issued on the FAS website the detailed requirements for completing and submitting program success stories.
