
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.30 Anti-fraud requirements.
####### All ATP Participants.

(a)(1) All ATP Participants shall submit to the CCC for approval a detailed fraud prevention program. The CCC will notify all new and existing ATP Participants in writing in each Participant's approval letter and through the FAS website as to applicable submission dates for and dates for approvals of fraud prevention programs. ATP Participants should review their fraud prevention programs annually. The fraud prevention program shall, at a minimum, include an annual review of physical controls and weaknesses, a standard process for investigating and remediation of suspected fraud cases, and training in risk management and fraud detection for all current and future employees. The ATP Participant shall not conduct or permit any ATP promotion activities to occur unless and until the CCC has communicated in writing approval of the ATP Participant's fraud prevention program.

(2) The ATP Participant, within five business days of receiving an allegation or information giving rise to a reasonable suspicion of misrepresentation or fraud that could give rise to a claim by CCC, shall report such allegation or information in writing to such USDA personnel as specified in the Participant's ATP program agreement and/or approval letter. The ATP Participant shall cooperate fully in any USDA investigation of such allegation or occurrence of misrepresentation or fraud and shall comply with any directives given by the CCC or USDA to the ATP Participant for the prompt investigation of such allegation or occurrence.
