
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.23 Compliance reviews and notices.

(a) USDA staff may conduct compliance reviews of ATP Participants' activities under the ATP program. ATP Participants shall cooperate fully with relevant USDA staff conducting compliance reviews and shall comply with all requests from USDA staff to facilitate the conduct of such reviews.

(b) Upon conclusion of the compliance review, USDA staff will provide either a written compliance report or a letter to the ATP Participant. USDA staff will issue a compliance report if it appears that CCC may be entitled to recover funds from that Participant and/or it appears that the Participant is not complying with any of the terms or conditions of the program agreement, approval letter, or the applicable laws and regulations. The compliance report will explain the basis for any recovery of funds from the Participant. Within 30 days of the date of the compliance report, the ATP Participant shall repay the CCC the amount owed either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The ATP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by the CCC. If, however, an ATP Participant notifies the CCC within 30 days of the date of the compliance report that the Participant intends to file an appeal pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the amount owed to the CCC by the ATP Participant is not due until the appeal procedures are concluded and the CCC has made a final determination as to the amount owed. In the absence of any finding of funds due to the CCC or other non-compliance, the CCC will issue a letter to the ATP Participant. If, as a result of a compliance review, the CCC determines that further review is needed in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of ATP, the CCC may require the Participant to contract for an independent audit.

(c) In addition, the CCC may notify an ATP Participant in writing at any time if CCC determines that CCC may be entitled to recover funds from the Participant. The CCC will explain the basis for any recovery of funds from the Participant in the written notice. The ATP Participant shall, within 30 days of the date of the notice, repay the CCC the amount owed either by submitting a check payable to the CCC or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. The ATP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by the CCC. If, however, an ATP Participant notifies the CCC within 30 days of the date of the written notice that the Participant intends to file an appeal pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the amount owed to the CCC by the ATP Participant is not due until the appeal procedures are concluded and the CCC has made a final determination as to the amount owed.

(d) The fact that a compliance review has been conducted by USDA staff does not signify that an ATP Participant is in compliance with its program agreement, approval letter and/or applicable laws and regulations.

(e) Appeals:

(1) An ATP Participant may, within 60 days of the date of the compliance report or written notice from the CCC, submit a written response to the CCC appealing the report or notice. CCC, at its discretion, may extend the period for response.

(2) After review of the Participant's response, the CCC shall determine whether the Participant owes any funds to the CCC and will inform the Participant in writing of the basis for the determination. The CCC will initiate action to collect such amount by providing the Participant a written demand for payment of the debt pursuant to Debt Settlement Policies and Procedures, 7 CFR part 1403.

(3) Within 30 days of the date of the determination, the Participant may request in writing that the CCC reconsider the determination and shall submit in writing the basis for such reconsideration. The Participant may also request a hearing.

(4) If the Participant requests a hearing, the CCC will set a date and time for the hearing. The hearing will be an informal proceeding. A transcript will not ordinarily be prepared unless the Participant bears the cost of a transcript; however, the CCC may in its discretion have a transcript prepared at the CCC's expense.

(5) The CCC will base its final determination upon information contained in the administrative record. The Participant must exhaust all administrative remedies contained in this section before pursuing judicial review of a determination by the CCC.
