
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1489 - AGRICULTURAL TRADE PROMOTION PROGRAM
###### ยง 1489.30 Anti-fraud requirements.
####### ATP Participants with brand programs.

(b)(1) The ATP Participant may charge a fee to brand participants to cover the cost of the fraud prevention program.

(2) The ATP Participant shall repay to the CCC funds paid to a brand participant through the ATP Participant on claims that the ATP Participant or the CCC subsequently determines are unauthorized or otherwise non-reimbursable expenses within 30 days of the ATP Participant's determination or CCC's disallowance. The ATP Participant shall repay CCC by submitting a check to CCC or by offsetting the ATP Participant's next reimbursement claim. The ATP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC. An ATP Participant operating a brand program in strict accordance with an approved fraud prevention program, however, will not be liable to reimburse CCC for ATP funds paid on such claims if the claims were based on misrepresentations or fraud of the brand participant, its employees or agents, unless the CCC determines that the ATP Participant was grossly negligent in the operation of the brand program regarding such claims. The CCC shall communicate any such determination to the ATP Participant in writing.
