
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1491 - FARM AND RANCH LANDS PROTECTION PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 1491.5 Application procedures.

(a) An Indian Tribe, State, unit of local government, or a nongovernmental organization will submit an application to the State Conservationist in the State where parcels are located.

(b) The State Conservationist will determine whether the Indian Tribe, State, unit of local government, or a nongovernmental organization is eligible to participate in FRPP based on the criteria set forth in ยง 1491.4(c).

(c) The Chief will determine whether an eligible entity is a certified entity based on the criteria set forth in ยง 1491.4(d), information provided by the application, and data in the national FRPP database.

(d) The State Conservationist will notify each Indian Tribe, State, unit of local government, or a nongovernmental organization if it has been determined eligible, certified, or ineligible.

(e) Eligible entities with cooperative agreements entered into after the effective date of this part will not have to resubmit an annual application for the duration of the cooperative agreement. Entities may reapply for eligibility when their cooperative agreements expire.

(f) Throughout the fiscal year, eligible entities may submit to the appropriate State Conservationist applications for parcels, in that State, with supporting information to be scored, ranked, and considered for funding.

(g) At the end of each fiscal year, the lists of pending, unfunded parcels will be cancelled unless the eligible entity requests that specific parcels be considered for funding in the next fiscal year. Entities must submit a new list of parcels each fiscal year in order to be considered for funding unless they request that parcels from the previous fiscal year be considered.
