
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1491 - FARM AND RANCH LANDS PROTECTION PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Cooperative Agreements and Conservation Easement Deeds
####### ยง 1491.21 Funding.

(a) Subject to the statutory limits, the State Conservationist, in coordination with the eligible entity, will determine the NRCS share of the cost of purchasing a conservation easement or other interest in the land.

(b) NRCS may provide up to 50 percent of the appraised fair market value of the conservation easement consistent with ยง 1491.4(g). An eligible entity will share in the cost of purchasing a conservation easement in accordance with the limitations of this part.

(c) A landowner may make donations toward the acquisition of the conservation easement.

(d) The eligible entity must provide a minimum of 25 percent of the purchase price of the conservation easement.

(e) FRPP funds may not be used for expenditures such as appraisals, surveys, title insurance, legal fees, costs of easement monitoring, and other related administrative and transaction costs incurred by the eligible entity.

(f) NRCS will conduct its technical and administrative review of appraisals and its hazardous materials reviews with FRPP funds.

(g) If the State Conservationist determines that the purchase of two or more conservation easements are comparable in achieving FRPP goals, the State Conservationist will not assign a higher priority to any one of these conservation easements solely on the basis of lesser cost to FRPP.

(h) Environmental Services Credits:

(1) NRCS asserts no direct or indirect interest in environmental credits that may result from or be associated with an FRPP easement;

(2) NRCS retains the authority to ensure that the requirements for FRPP-funded easements are met and maintained consistent with this part; and

(3) If activities required under an environmental credit agreement may affect land covered under a FRPP easement, landowners are encouraged to request a compatibility assessment from the eligible entity prior to entering into such agreements.
