
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1491 - FARM AND RANCH LANDS PROTECTION PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Cooperative Agreements and Conservation Easement Deeds
####### ยง 1491.20 Cooperative agreements.

(a) NRCS, on behalf of the CCC, will enter into a cooperative agreement with entities selected for funding. Once a proposal is selected by the State Conservationist, the eligible entity must work with the State Conservationist to finalize and sign the cooperative agreement, incorporating all necessary FRPP requirements. The cooperative agreement must address:

(1) The interests in land to be acquired, including the United States' right of enforcement, as well as the form and other terms and conditions of the easement deed;

(2) The management and enforcement of the rights on lands acquired with FRPP funds;

(3) The responsibilities of NRCS;

(4) The responsibilities of the eligible entity on lands acquired with FRPP funds;

(5) The allowance of parcel substitution upon mutual agreement of the parties; and

(6) Other requirements deemed necessary by NRCS to meet the purposes of this part or protect the interests of the United States.

(b) The term of cooperative agreements will be 5 years for certified entities and 3 years for other eligible entities.

(c) The cooperative agreement will include an attachment listing the parcels accepted by the State Conservationist. This list will include landowners' names and addresses, acreage, the estimated fair market value, the estimated Federal contribution, and other relevant information. The cooperative agreement template will be made available by the State Conservationist.

(d) The cooperative agreement will incorporate the provisions necessary for the eligible entity to comply with applicable registration and reporting requirements of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-282, as amended) and 2 CFR parts 25 and 170.
