
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart B - CCC Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-102) Operations
####### ยง 1493.30 Information required for Exporter participation.
######## Qualification requirements.

(a)To qualify for participation in the GSM-102 program, an applicant must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:

(1) For the applicant:

(i) The name and full U.S. address (including the full 9-digit zip code) of the applicant's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence. A post office box is not an acceptable address. If the applicant has multiple offices, the address included in the information should be that which is pertinent to the GSM-102 export sales contemplated by the applicant;

(ii) Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number;

(iii) Employer Identification Number (EIN-also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number);

(iv) Telephone and fax numbers;

(v) Email address (if applicable);

(vi) Business Web site (if applicable);

(vii) Contact name;

(viii) Statement indicating whether the applicant is a U.S. domestic entity or a foreign entity domiciled in the United States; and

(ix) The form of business entity of the applicant (e.g., sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, etc.) and the U.S. jurisdiction under which such entity is organized and authorized to conduct business. Such jurisdictions are a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States. Upon request by CCC, the applicant must provide written evidence that such entity has been organized in a U.S. State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or a territory or possession of the United States.

(2) For the applicant's headquarters office:

(i) The name and full address of the applicant's headquarters office. A post office box is not an acceptable address; and

(ii) Telephone and fax numbers.

(3) For the applicant's agent for the service of process:

(i) The name and full U.S. address of the applicant's agent's office, along with an indication of whether the address is a business or private residence;

(ii) Telephone and fax numbers;

(iii) Email address (if applicable); and

(iv) Contact name.

(4) A description of the applicant's business. Applicants must provide the following information:

(i) Nature of the applicant's business (e.g., agricultural producer, commodity trader, consulting firm, etc.);

(ii) Explanation of the applicant's experience/history with U.S. Agricultural Commodities for the preceding three years, including a description of such commodities;

(iii) Explanation of the applicant's experience/history exporting U.S. Agricultural Commodities, including number of years involved in exporting, types of products exported, and destination of exports for the preceding three years; and

(iv) Whether or not the applicant is a "small or medium enterprise" (SME) as defined on the USDA Web site;

(5) A listing of any related companies (e.g., Affiliates, subsidiaries, or companies otherwise related through common ownership) currently qualified to participate in CCC export programs;

(6) A statement describing the applicant's participation, if any, during the past three years in U.S. Government programs, contracts or agreements; and

(7) A statement that: "All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.60(a) are hereby made in this application" which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in ยง 1493.60(a). The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.
