
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart B - CCC Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-102) Operations
####### § 1493.70 Application for Payment Guarantee.

(a) A Firm Export Sales Contract for an Eligible Export Sale must exist before an Exporter may submit an application for a Payment Guarantee. Upon request by CCC, the Exporter must provide evidence of a Firm Export Sales Contract. An application for a Payment Guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site. An application must identify the name and address of the Exporter and include the following information:

(1) Name of the destination country or region. If the destination is a region, indicate the country or countries within the region to which the U.S. Agricultural Commodity will be exported.

(2) Name and address of the Importer. If the Importer is not physically located in the country or region of destination, it must have an Importer's Representative in the country or region of destination. If applicable, provide the name and address of the Importer's Representative.

(3) A statement that the U.S. Agricultural Commodity will be shipped to the destination country or region.

(4) Name and address of the party on whose request the Letter of Credit is issued, if other than the Importer.

(5) Name and address of the Intervening Purchaser, if any.

(6) Date of Sale.

(7) Exporter's sale number.

(8) Delivery period as agreed between the Exporter and the Importer.

(9) A full description of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity (including packaging, if any). The description must include the applicable six-digit Harmonized System commodity classification code. The commodity grade and quality specified in the Exporter's application for the Payment Guarantee must correspond with the commodity grade and quality specified in the Firm Export Sales Contract and the Foreign Financial Institution Letter of Credit.

(10) Mean quantity, contract loading tolerance and, if necessary, a request for CCC to reserve coverage up to the maximum quantity permitted.

(11) Unit sales price of the U.S. Agricultural Commodity, or a mechanism to establish the price, as agreed between the Exporter and the Importer. If the commodity was sold on the basis of CFR or CIF, the actual (if known at the time of application) or estimated value of freight and, in the case of sales made on a CIF basis, the actual (if known at the time of application) or estimated value of marine and war risk insurance, must be specified.

(12) Description and value of Discounts and Allowances, if any.

(13) Port Value (includes upward loading tolerance, if any).

(14) Guaranteed Value.

(15) Guarantee fee, either as announced on the Web site per § 1493.110(a)(1), or the competitive fee bid per § 1493.110(a)(2), depending on the type of fee charged by CCC for the country or region.

(16) Name and location of the Foreign Financial Institution issuing the Letter of Credit and, upon request by CCC, written evidence that the Foreign Financial Institution has agreed to issue the Letter of Credit.

(17) The term length for the credit being extended and the intervals between principal payments for each shipment to be made under the export sale.

(18) The Exporter's statement, "All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.80 are hereby being made by the Exporter in this application." which, when included in the application by the Exporter, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.80.

(b) An application for a Payment Guarantee may be approved as submitted, approved with modifications agreed to by the Exporter, or rejected by the Director. In the event that the application is approved, the Director will cause a Payment Guarantee to be issued in favor of the Exporter. Such Payment Guarantee will become effective at the time specified in § 1493.100(b). If, based upon a price review, the unit sales price of the commodity does not fall within the prevailing commercial market level ranges, as determined by CCC, the application will not be approved.
