
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.200 General statement.
######## Overview.

(a)The FGP of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) was developed to expand U.S. agricultural commodity exports by making available payment guarantees to encourage U.S. private sector financing to establish or improve facilities or provide services or goods in emerging markets to improve handling, marketing, processing, storage, or distribution of imported agricultural commodities and products. Such guarantees will primarily promote the export of U.S. agricultural commodities. CCC will give priority to transactions that encourage privatization of the agricultural sector or that benefit private farms and cooperatives in emerging markets, and for which nongovernmental persons agree to assume a relatively larger share of costs. The payment guarantee issued under FGP is an agreement by CCC to pay the seller, or the U.S. financial institution that may take assignment of the payment guarantee, specified amounts of principal and interest in case of default by the foreign financial institution that issued the letter of credit for the sale covered by the payment guarantee. The program is targeted toward those countries that have sufficient financial strength so that foreign exchange will be available for scheduled payments. In providing this program, CCC seeks to expand and/or maintain market opportunities for U.S. agricultural exporters and producers and assist long-term market development for U.S. agricultural commodities.
