
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.210 Definition of terms.
######## Firm sales contract.

The written sales contract entered into between the seller and the buyer which sets forth the terms and conditions of an eligible export sale from the seller to the buyer. Written evidence of a sale may be in the form of a signed sales contract, a written offer and acceptance between parties, or other documentary evidence of sale. The firm sales contract between the seller and the buyer may be conditioned upon CCC's approval of the seller's application for a payment guarantee. The written evidence of sale for the purposes of the FGP must, at a minimum, document the following information:

(1) Date of sale;

(2) A complete description of all goods associated with the transaction. For goods to be covered by the payment guarantee, include the brand name and model number, country where the good was manufactured and country from which the good will be exported (if applicable), quantity, value, and Incoterms (if applicable);

(3) A complete description of all services associated with the transaction. For services to be covered by the payment guarantee, include the supplier and cost;

(4) The date of performance of each contractual event; and

(5) Evidence of agreement between buyer and seller.
