
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.240 Information required for foreign financial institution participation.
######## Previous qualification and submission of annual financial statements.

(d)Each qualified foreign financial institution shall submit annually to CCC the certifications in ยง 1493.250 and its audited fiscal year-end financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards established by the applicant's regulators, in English, so that CCC may determine the continued ability of the foreign financial institution to adequately service CCC guaranteed debt. If the foreign financial institution is not subject to a banking or other financial regulatory authority, it must submit year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in English, for the applicant's most recent fiscal year. Failure to submit this information annually may cause CCC to decrease or cancel the foreign financial institution's dollar participation limit. Any foreign financial institution participating in neither the FGP nor the GSM-102 Program for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years may have its dollar participation limit cancelled. If this participation limit is cancelled, the foreign financial institution must resubmit the information and certifications requested in paragraph (a) of this section to CCC when reapplying for participation. Additionally, if at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the foreign financial institution must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided under paragraph (a) of this section has not changed.
