
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.260 Application for payment guarantee.
######## i.e.,

(6) A description (including location,address, city, port, and/or GPS coordinates, if available) of the agriculture-related facility that will use the goods and/or services to be covered by the payment guarantee and an explanation of how the goods and/or services will be used to improve handling, marketing, processing, storage, or distribution of U.S. agricultural commodities. If the payment guarantee covers goods not intended for a specific facility, describe where the goods will be delivered in the destination country.

(7) List of all agricultural commodities or products (inputs) to be handled, marketed, processed, stored, or distributed by the proposed transaction after completion, and an explanation of why and how the facility or goods and/or services will specifically benefit exporters of U.S. agricultural commodities.

(8) Total value of the firm sales contract.

(9) A full description of each good to be covered by the payment guarantee. The goods specified in the seller's application for the payment guarantee must correspond with the description of the goods specified in the firm sales contract and the foreign financial institution letter of credit. The description must include each of the following:

(i) Brand name and model number;

(ii) Applicable 10-digit Harmonized System classification code;

(iii) Description of the good;

(iv) Country where the good was manufactured and from which the good will be exported;

(v) For U.S. goods, the value of imported components used in the U.S. good's manufacture. If requesting guarantee coverage of only the U.S. components in U.S. goods, provide the value of U.S. components;

(vi) For goods that are local costs, the name of the local supplier;

(vii) Quantity;

(viii) Value of the good; and

(ix) Incoterms (if the sale of the goods is based on Incoterms delivery).

(10) A full description of each U.S. service to be covered by the payment guarantee. The U.S. services specified in the seller's application for the payment guarantee must correspond with the description of the U.S. services specified in the firm sales contract and the foreign financial institution letter of credit. The description must include each of the following:

(i) Description of the U.S. service;

(ii) Supplier of the U.S. service;

(iii) Cost of the U.S. service; and

(iv) NAICS classification number.

(11) A description and date of performance (or timeframe of performance if the exact date is unknown) of each contractual event, as specified in the firm sales contract.

(12) Indication of whether a coverage waiver is requested in accordance with ยง 1493.290(f). If a coverage waiver is requested, the applicant must indicate the nature of the waiver requested per ยง 1493.290(f)(1) and provide the justification and explanation required by ยง 1493.290(f)(2).

(13) Name and location of the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit and, upon request by CCC, written evidence that the foreign financial institution has agreed to issue the letter of credit.

(14) The term length of the credit being extended and the intervals between principal payments for each contractual event under the payment guarantee.

(15) If applicable, a description of any arrangements or understandings with other U.S. or foreign government agencies, or with financial institutions or entities, private or public, providing guarantees or financing to the seller or other competing sellers in connection with this sale, whether or not the goods or services are of U.S. origin or would otherwise qualify for a payment guarantee under this subpart. Copies of any documents relating to such arrangements must be provided.

(16) A statement of how this transaction may encourage privatization of the agricultural sector, or benefit private farms or cooperatives, in the destination country. Include in the statement the share of any private sector ownership in the transaction.

(17) An estimate of how many U.S. persons will be or have been hired because of the firm sales contract and/or how many U.S. persons are required to fulfill the firm sales contract.

(18) FGP tracking number assigned to previously submitted letter of interest, if applicable.
