
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.260 Application for payment guarantee.
######## Review of initial application.

(c)(1) An initial application may receive conditional approval from CCC as submitted, be conditionally approved with modifications agreed to by the seller, or be rejected by CCC. CCC's review will include, but not be limited to, the following criteria:

(i) CCC will only consider an initial application in connection with a transaction that CCC determines will benefit primarily exports of U.S. agricultural commodities.

(ii) If, based upon a price review the unit sales price of any good and/or service(s) does not fall within the prevailing commercial market level ranges, as determined by CCC, the initial application will not be approved as submitted.

(iii) CCC will review the preliminary environmental and social screening document submitted by the seller and, if necessary, request additional information from the seller to determine whether the transaction could have potentially significant adverse environmental and/or social impacts. If CCC determines that a transaction may have such significant adverse impacts, the seller must submit an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) with the final application for the payment guarantee. Alternatively, CCC may reject an initial application for payment guarantee based on the screening document and any additional information provided by the seller.

(2) Once CCC indicates its approval of the initial application to the seller, the seller must submit a final application as specified in paragraph (d) of this section before CCC will make a final determination of whether to issue a payment guarantee.
