
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.260 Application for payment guarantee.
######## Initial application for payment guarantee.

(b)A firm sales contract must exist before a seller may submit an initial application for a payment guarantee. An initial application for a payment guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site, and be accompanied by the application fee in accordance with ยง 1493.300(b). Each initial application for a payment guarantee must also include a completed Preliminary Environmental and Social Screening Document. If the seller previously submitted the screening document with a letter of interest, the seller is required to re-submit it with the initial application only if revisions are needed to the screening document. An initial application must identify the name and address of the seller and include the following information:

(1) Destination country.

(2) The name and address of the buyer. If the buyer is not physically located in the destination country, it must have a buyer's representative in the destination country taking receipt of the goods and services covered by the payment guarantee. If applicable, provide the name and address of the buyer's representative.

(3) The name and address of the party on whose request the letter of credit is issued, if other than the buyer.

(4) The name and address of the end-user of the goods or services, if other than the buyer.

(5) The seller's sales number pertinent to the application and a copy of the firm sales contract.
