
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.260 Application for payment guarantee.
######## Final application for payment guarantee.

(d)Once CCC approves an initial application, CCC must receive the seller's final application for a payment guarantee within the timeframe specified by CCC. This timeframe will be a minimum of 30 calendar days. The final application for payment guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site and be accompanied by the full guarantee fee (less any previous letter of interest or initial application fees paid toward the payment guarantee) and the environmental and social impact assessment, if required by CCC. The final application must identify the name and address of the seller and include the following information:

(1) FGP tracking number assigned by CCC.

(2) Destination country.

(3) The name and address of the buyer.

(4) A description of each good and U.S. service, along with the value of the Good and Cost of the service, for which guarantee coverage is requested, based on CCC's feedback on the seller's initial application. If the seller is seeking guarantee coverage on only the U.S. components used in the assembly of U.S. goods, provide the value of the U.S. Components.

(5) Net contract value.

(6) Amount of the initial payment and evidence that the initial payment has been paid by the buyer to the seller.

(7) Description and value of any discounts and allowances.

(8) Value of approved local costs.

(9) Total FGP transaction value.

(10) Guaranteed value.

(11) Guarantee fee.

(12) The seller's statement, "All certifications set forth in ยง 1493.270 are hereby being made by the seller in this application" which, when included in the application by the seller, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in ยง 1493.270 with respect to both the initial and final applications.
