
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 29 - TOBACCO INSPECTION
###### Subpart B - Requirements
####### mandatory inspection
######## ยง 29.74 Growers' referendum.
######### Filing and tabulation of votes.

(d)Each ballot, when filled in and signed by a grower entitled to vote in a referendum, shall be mailed or delivered by him as specified in the ballot. Persons authorized by the Director to receive votes in any referendum shall promptly file all votes received or collected by them with the Division. All ballots filed in a referendum shall be examined to verify the eligibility of the voter and the Director shall have compiled the result of the referendum and furnish the Secretary a statement showing whether or not two-thirds of the growers voting favored the designation of the market or group of markets covered by the referendum. In verifying votes, ballots which do not show the desire of the voter, or ballots which are defective or illegible, or ballots on which the signature or other identification does not correspond with the established list shall not be counted. The choice of any individual voter shall not be divulged by any official of the Division, except to the Secretary when requested. Votes, ballots, and other documents pertaining to a referendum shall be preserved in the Division for a period of 2 years from the closing date of such referendum, and may be destroyed thereafter.
