
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.350 Notice of default.
######## Impact of a default on other existing payment guarantees.

(c)

(1) In the event that a foreign financial institution defaults under a repayment obligation under this subpart or under 7 CFR 1493, subpart B, CCC may declare that such foreign financial institution is no longer eligible to provide additional Letters of Credit under the FGP. If CCC determines that such defaulting foreign financial institution is no longer eligible for the FGP, CCC shall provide written notice of such ineligibility to all sellers and assignees, if any, having payment guarantees covering transactions with respect to which the defaulting foreign financial institution is expected to issue a letter of credit. Receipt of written notice from CCC that a defaulting foreign financial institution is no longer eligible to provide additional Letters of Credit under the FGP shall constitute withdrawal of coverage of that foreign financial institution under all payment guarantees with respect to any letter of credit issued on or after the date of receipt of such written notice. CCC will not withdraw coverage of the defaulting foreign financial institution under any payment guarantee with respect to any letter of credit issued before the date of receipt of such written notice.

(2) If CCC withdraws coverage of the defaulting foreign financial institution, CCC will permit the seller (with concurrence of the assignee, if any) to utilize another approved foreign financial institution, and will consider other requested amendments to the payment guarantee, for the balance of the transaction covered by the payment guarantee. If no alternate foreign financial institution is identified to issue the letter of credit within 30 calendar days, CCC will cancel the payment guarantee and refund the seller's guarantee fees corresponding to any unutilized portion of the payment guarantee.
