
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.380 Recovery of defaulted payments.
######## Receipt of monies.

(b)(1) In the event that monies related to the obligation in default are recovered by the seller or the assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party, the buyer, or any source whatsoever (excluding payments between CCC, the seller and the assignee), such monies shall be immediately paid to CCC. Any monies derived from insurance or through the liquidation of any security or collateral after the claim is filed with CCC shall be deemed recoveries that must be paid by the seller and/or assignee to CCC. If such monies are not received by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery by the seller or the assignee, such party will also owe to CCC interest from the date of recovery of such funds to the date of CCC's receipt of such funds. This interest will be calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and will accrue from such date to the date of payment by the seller or the assignee to CCC. Such interest will be charged only on CCC's share of the recovery. If there has been no 91-day auction within 90 calendar days of the date interest begins to accrue, CCC will apply an alternative rate in a manner to be described on the USDA Web site.

(2) If CCC recovers monies that should be applied to a payment guarantee for which a claim has been paid by CCC, CCC will pay the holder of the payment guarantee its pro rata share if any, provided that the required information necessary for determining pro rata distribution has been furnished. If a required payment is not made by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery or 15 business days from receiving the required information for determining pro rata distribution, whichever is later, CCC will pay interest calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery, and interest will accrue from such date to the date of payment by CCC. The interest will apply only to the portion of the recovery payable to the holder of the payment guarantee.
