
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart C - CCC Facility Guarantee Program (FGP) Operations
####### ยง 1493.390 Dispute resolution and appeals.
######## Dispute resolution.

(a)(1) The Director and the seller or the assignee will attempt to resolve any disputes, including any adverse determinations made by CCC, arising under the FGP, this subpart, the applicable program announcements and notices to participants, or the payment guarantee.

(2) The seller or the assignee may seek reconsideration of a determination made by the Director by submitting a letter requesting reconsideration to the Director within 30 calendar days of the date of the determination. For the purposes of this section, the date of a determination will be the date of the letter or other means of notification to the seller or the assignee of the determination. The seller or the assignee may include with the letter requesting reconsideration any additional information that it wishes the Director to consider in reviewing its request. The Director will respond to the request for reconsideration within 30 calendar days of the date on which the request or the final documentary evidence submitted by the seller or the assignee is received by the Director, whichever is later, unless the Director extends the time permitted for response. If the seller or the assignee fails to request reconsideration of a determination by the Director within 30 calendar days of the date of the determination, then the determination of the Director will be deemed final.

(3) If the seller or the assignee requests reconsideration of a determination by the Director pursuant to subparagraph (a)(2) of this section, and the Director upholds the original determination, then the seller or the assignee may appeal the Director's final determination to the GSM in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If the seller or the assignee fails to appeal the Director's final determination within 30 calendar days, as provided in ยง 1493.390(b)(1), then the Director's decision becomes the final determination of CCC.
