
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - CCC Supplier Credit Guarantee Program Operations
####### ยง 1493.400 General statement.
######## Country allocations and program announcements.

(d)From time to time, CCC will issue a Program Announcement to announce a SCGP allocation for a specific country. The Program Announcement for a country allocation will designate specific allocations for U.S. agricultural commodities or products thereof, will indicate the form of promissory note required by CCC, and will provide other pertinent information. Exporters may negotiate export sales to importers in that country for one of the commodities specified in the Program Announcement and seek payment guarantee coverage within the dollar amounts of specified coverage for that commodity. The Program Announcement will contain a requirement that the exporter's sales contract contain a shipping deadline within the applicable program year. The final date for a contractual shipping deadline will be stated in the Program Announcement. Program Announcements may also contain a specified "undesignated" or "unallocated" dollar amount for the purpose that if dollar amounts specified for a specific commodity for a country become fully used, an additional allocation from the "unallocated" or "undesignated" portion of the total country allocation may then be designated for a specific commodity. Program Announcements that include an "unallocated" or "undesignated" dollar amount will contain further information on the "unallocated" or "undesignated" portion of the country allocation.
