
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - CCC Supplier Credit Guarantee Program Operations
####### ยง 1493.400 General statement.
######## Overview.

(a)(1) This subpart contains the regulations governing the operations of the Supplier Credit Guarantee Program (SCGP). The restrictions and criteria set forth at subpart A for the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-102) and the Intermediate Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-103) will apply to this subpart. The SCGP was developed to expand U.S. agricultural exports by making available payment guarantees to encourage U.S. exporters to extend financing on credit terms of not more than 180 days to importers of U.S. agricultural commodities.

(2) The SCGP operates in cases where credit is necessary to increase or maintain U.S. exports to a foreign market and where private U.S. exporters would be unwilling to provide financing without CCC's guarantee. The program is operated in a manner intended not to interfere with markets for cash sales. The program is targeted toward those countries where the guarantees are necessary to secure financing of the exports but which have sufficient financial strength so that foreign exchange will be available for scheduled payments. In providing this credit guarantee facility, CCC seeks to expand market opportunities for U.S. agricultural exporters and assist long-term market development for U.S. agricultural commodities.

(3) The credit facility created by this program is the SCGP payment guarantee (payment guarantee). The payment guarantee is an agreement by CCC to pay the exporter, or the U.S. financial institution that may take assignment of the exporter's right to proceeds, specified amounts of principal and, where applicable, interest due from, but not paid by, the importer incurring the obligation in connection with the export sale to which CCC's guarantee coverage pertains. By approving an exporter's application for a payment guarantee, CCC encourages private sector, rather than government, financing and incurs a substantial portion of the risk of default by the importer. CCC assumes this risk, in order to be able to operate the program for the purposes specified in ยง 1493.2.
