
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1493 - CCC EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS
###### Subpart D - CCC Supplier Credit Guarantee Program Operations
####### ยง 1493.520 Recovery of losses.
######## Receipt of monies.

(b)(1) In the event that monies for a defaulted payment are recovered by the exporter or the exporter's assignee from the importer or any other source whatsoever, such monies shall be immediately paid to the Treasurer, CCC. If such monies are not received by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery by the exporter or the exporter's assignee, the exporter or the exporter's assignee will owe to CCC interest from the date of recovery to the date of receipt by CCC. This interest will be calculated based on the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and will accrue from such date to the date of payment by the exporter or the exporter's assignee to CCC. Such interest will be charged only on CCC's share of the recovery.

(2) If CCC recovers monies that should be applied to a payment guarantee for which a claim has been paid by CCC, CCC will pay the holder of the payment guarantee its pro rata share immediately, provided that the required information necessary for determining pro rata distribution has been furnished. If payment is not made by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery or 15 business days from receiving the required information for determining pro rata distribution, whichever is later, CCC will pay interest calculated on the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and such interest will accrue from such date to the date of payment by CCC. The interest will apply only to the portion of the recovery payable to the holder of the payment guarantee.
