
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1499 - FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM
###### ยง 1499.8 Entry, handling, and labeling of donated commodities and notification requirements.

(a) A recipient must make all necessary arrangements for receiving the donated commodities in the target country, including obtaining appropriate approvals for entry and transit. The recipient must make arrangements with the target country government for all donated commodities that will be distributed to beneficiaries to be imported and distributed free from all customs duties, tolls, and taxes. A recipient is encouraged to make similar arrangements, where possible, with the government of a country where donated commodities to be sold or bartered are delivered.

(b) A recipient must, as provided in the agreement, arrange for transporting, storing, and distributing the donated commodities from the designated point and time where title to the donated commodities passes to the recipient, except that CCC will arrange for transporting the donated commodities in accordance with ยง 1499.7(b)(1) when CCC determines that it is applicable.

(c) A recipient must maintain the donated commodities in good condition from the time that it takes possession of such donated commodities at the designated discharge port, the point of entry, or the point of receipt from the originating carrier until their distribution, sale or barter.

(d) A recipient must comply with the following requirements in this paragraph, and the requirements specified in the agreement, regarding the acknowledgment of funding by USDA, the use of the USDA logo, and communications to the public:

(1) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:

(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;

(ii) Contains the name of the donated commodities;

(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities are furnished by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture; and

(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, exchanged or bartered.

(2) If a recipient arranges for the processing and repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:

(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;

(ii) Contains the name of the processed product;

(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product was made with commodities furnished by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture; and

(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product must not be sold, exchanged or bartered.

(3) If a recipient distributes donated commodities that are not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the donated commodities, a statement indicating that the donated commodities are being furnished by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, exchanged, or bartered.

(4) A recipient must ensure that signs are displayed at all activity implementation and commodity distribution sites to inform beneficiaries that funding for the project was provided by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture.

(5) A recipient must ensure that all communications to the public relating to the project, the activities, or the donated commodities, whether made through print, broadcast, digital, or other media, include a statement acknowledging that funding was provided by the Food for Progress Program of the United States Department of Agriculture. This includes project descriptions, fact sheets, signs, websites, press releases, social media, videos, reports, and other communications to the public. A recipient must also ensure that the USDA logo is used in communications to the public in accordance with the agreement.

(e)(1) At the request of a recipient, CCC may waive compliance with one or more of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section. A recipient may submit a written request for a waiver at any time after the agreement has been signed. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the recipient must comply with the requirement(s) while awaiting a determination by CCC regarding its waiver request.

(2) If a recipient determines that compliance with one or more of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section poses an imminent threat of injury, loss of life, or destruction of property in the target country, the recipient must submit a request to CCC for a waiver of such requirement(s), with an explanation of the safety or security risk, as soon as possible. The recipient will not have to comply with such requirement(s) while awaiting a determination by CCC regarding its waiver request.

(f) In exceptional circumstances, CCC may, on its own initiative, waive one or more of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section for programmatic reasons.
