
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1499 - FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM
###### ยง 1499.11 Use of donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, and program income.

(a) A recipient must use the donated commodities, any sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, and program income in accordance with the agreement.

(b) A recipient must not use donated commodities, sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income for any activity or any expense incurred by the recipient or a subrecipient prior to the start date of the period of performance of the agreement or after the agreement is suspended or terminated, without the prior written approval of CCC.

(c) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities on the basis of political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal or religious identity or affiliation of the potential consumers or beneficiaries.

(d) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities by the military forces of any government or insurgent group without the specific authorization of CCC.

(e) A recipient must not use sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, or program income to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates a U.S. Government economic sanctions program, as specified in the agreement.

(f) A recipient may sell or barter donated commodities only if such sale or barter is provided for in the agreement or the recipient is disposing of damaged donated commodities as specified in ยง 1499.9(f). The recipient must sell donated commodities at a reasonable market price. The recipient must obtain approval of its proposed sale price from CCC before selling donated commodities. The recipient must use any sale proceeds, interest, program income, or goods or services derived from the sale or barter of the donated commodities only as provided in the agreement.

(g) A recipient must deposit and maintain all sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, and program income in a bank account until they are used for a purpose authorized under the agreement or the CCC-provided funds are returned to CCC in accordance with ยง 1499.6(f)(6). The account must be insured unless it is in a country where insurance is unavailable. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or CCC determines that this requirement would constitute an undue burden. The recipient must comply with the requirements in ยง 1499.6(f)(7) with regard to the deposit of advance payments by CCC.

(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, a recipient may make adjustments within the agreement budget between direct cost line items without further approval, provided that the total amount of such adjustments does not exceed the amount specified in the agreement. Adjustments beyond these limits require the prior approval of CCC.

(2) A recipient must not transfer any funds budgeted for participant support costs, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, to other categories of expense without the prior approval of CCC.

(i) A recipient may use sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to purchase real or personal property only if local law permits the recipient to retain title to such property. However, a recipient must not use sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to pay for the acquisition, development, construction, alteration or upgrade of real property that is:

(1) Owned or managed by a church or other organization engaged exclusively in religious pursuits; or

(2) Used in whole or in part for sectarian purposes, except that a recipient may use sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of a structure located on such real property to the extent necessary to avoid spoilage or loss of donated commodities, but only if the structure is not used in whole or in part for any religious or sectarian purposes while the donated commodities are stored in it. If the use of sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of such a structure is not specifically provided for in the agreement, the recipient must not use the sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, or program income for this purpose until it receives written approval from CCC.

(j) A recipient must comply with 2 CFR 200.321 when procuring goods and services in the United States. When procuring goods and services outside of the United States, a recipient should endeavor to comply with 2 CFR 200.321 where practicable.

(k) A recipient must enter into a written contract with each provider of goods, services, or construction work that is valued at or above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold. Each such contract must require the provider to maintain adequate records to account for all donated commodities, funds, or both furnished to the provider by the recipient and to comply with any other applicable requirements that may be specified by CCC in the agreement. The recipient must submit a copy of each signed contract to CCC, as specified in the agreement.
