
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1499 - FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM
###### ยง 1499.13 Reporting and record keeping requirements.

(a) A recipient must comply with the performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.328 through 200.330.

(b) A recipient must submit financial reports to CCC, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. Such reports must provide an accurate accounting of sale proceeds, CCC-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions. When reporting financial information under the agreement, the recipient must include the amounts in U.S. dollars and, if funds are held in local currency, the exchange rate.

(c)(1) A recipient must submit performance reports to CCC, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. These reports must include the following:

(i) The information required in 2 CFR 200.329(c)(2), including additional pertinent information regarding the recipient's progress, measured against established indicators, baseline values, and targets, towards achieving the expected results specified in the agreement. This reporting must include, for each performance indicator, a comparison of actual accomplishments with the baseline values and the targets established for the period. When actual accomplishments deviate significantly from targeted goals, the recipient must provide an explanation in the report;

(ii) Information covering the receipt, handling, and disposition of the donated commodities, until all of the donated commodities have been distributed, sold, or bartered and such disposition has been reported to CCC; and

(iii) If the agreement authorizes the sale or barter of donated commodities, information covering the receipt and use of any sale proceeds, goods and services derived from barter, and program income, until all of the sale proceeds, goods and services derived from barter, and program income have been disbursed or used and reported to CCC.

(2) A recipient must ensure the accuracy and reliability of the performance data submitted to CCC in performance reports. At any time during the period of performance of the agreement, CCC may review the recipient's performance data to determine whether it is accurate and reliable. The recipient must comply with all requests made by CCC or an entity designated by CCC in relation to such reviews.

(d) Baseline, midterm, and final evaluation reports are required for all agreements, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. The reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeline in the CCC-approved evaluation plan. Evaluation reports submitted to CCC may be made public in an effort to increase accountability and transparency and share lessons learned and best practices.

(e) A recipient must, within 30 days after export of all or a portion of the donated commodities, submit evidence of such export to CCC, in the manner set forth in the agreement. The evidence may be submitted through an electronic media approved by CCC or by providing the ocean carrier's on board bill of lading. The evidence of export must show the kind and quantity of commodities exported, the date of export, and the country where the commodities will be delivered. The date of export is the date that the ocean carrier carrying the donated commodities sails from the final U.S. load port.

(f) If requested by CCC, a recipient must provide to CCC additional information or reports relating to the agreement.

(g) If a recipient requires an extension of a reporting deadline, it must ensure that CCC receives an extension request at least five business days prior to the reporting deadline. CCC may decline to consider a request for an extension that it receives after this time period. CCC will consider requests for reporting deadline extensions on a case by case basis and make a decision based on the merits of each request. CCC will consider factors such as unforeseen or extenuating circumstances and past performance history when evaluating requests for extensions.

(h) A recipient must retain records and permit access to records in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR 200.334 through 200.338. The date of submission of the final expenditure report, as referenced in 2 CFR 200.334, will be the date of submission of the final financial report required by paragraph (b) of this section, as prescribed by CCC. The recipient must retain copies of and make available to CCC all sales receipts, contracts, or other documents related to the sale or barter of donated commodities and any goods or services derived from such barter, as well as records of dispatch received from ocean carriers.
