
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XIV - Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Export Programs
##### PART 1499 - FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM
###### ยง 1499.7 Transportation of donated commodities.

(a) Shipments of donated commodities are subject to the requirements of 46 U.S.C. 55305, regarding carriage on U.S.-flag vessels.

(b) Transportation to the designated discharge port or point of entry of donated commodities, and other goods such as bags that may be provided by CCC under the FFPr Program, will be arranged for under a specific agreement in the manner determined by CCC. Such transportation will be arranged for by:

(1) CCC in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in 48 CFR chapter 1, the Agriculture Acquisition Regulation (AGAR) in 48 CFR chapter 4, and directives issued by the Director, Office of Contracting and Procurement, USDA; or

(2) The recipient, with payment by CCC, in the manner specified in the agreement.

(c) A recipient that is responsible for transportation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section must declare in the transportation contract the point at which the ocean carrier will take custody of donated commodities to be transported.

(d) A recipient may only use the services of a transportation company that is legally operating in the country in which it will be transporting the donated commodities and that would not have a conflict of interest in transporting such donated commodities.

(e) A recipient that arranges for transportation in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may only use the services of a freight forwarder that is licensed by the Federal Maritime Commission and that would not have a conflict of interest in carrying out the freight forwarder duties. To assist CCC in determining whether there is a potential conflict of interest, the recipient must submit to CCC a certification indicating that the freight forwarder:

(1) Is not engaged in, and will not engage in, supplying commodities or furnishing ocean transportation or ocean transportation-related services for commodities provided under any FFPr Program agreement to which the recipient is a party; and

(2) Is not affiliated with the recipient and has not made arrangements to give or receive any payment, kickback, or illegal benefit in connection with its selection as an agent of the recipient.

(f) A recipient will be responsible for arranging and paying for any transportation of the donated commodities after their arrival at the designated discharge port or point of entry for as long as the recipient has title to such donated commodities, except as may otherwise be provided in the agreement.
