
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1530 - THE REFINED SUGAR RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, THE SUGAR CONTAINING PRODUCTS RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, AND THE POLYHYDRIC ALCOHOL PROGRAM
##### ยง 1530.105 Terms and conditions.

(a) A licensed refiner (refiner) shall, not later than 90 days after entering a quantity of raw cane sugar under subheading 1701.11.20 of the HTS, export or transfer an equivalent quantity of refined sugar if the entry results in a positive license balance.

(b) A licensed sugar containing products manufacturer (manufacturer) or a licensed polyhydric alcohol producer (producer) shall, not later than 18 months from the date of transfer of a quantity of refined sugar from a refiner, export an equivalent quantity of refined sugar as an ingredient in a sugar containing product if the transfer results in a positive license balance, or use an equivalent quantity of refined sugar in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols if the transfer results in a positive license balance, respectively.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, licensees may receive credit for the exportation or transfer of refined sugar, the exportation of a sugar containing product, or the production of certain polyhydric alcohols prior to the corresponding date of entry of raw cane sugor the date of transfer of refined sugar.

(d) Licensees are encouraged to submit monthly program transaction reports, but shall report no later than 90 days from the date of entry, transfer, export, or use.

(e) A refiner may enter raw sugar, or a manufacturer or producer may receive a transfer of refined sugar, in anticipation of the transfer or export of refined sugar (refiner), the export of sugar in sugar containing products (manufacturer) or the production of a polyhydric alcohol (producer) not to exceed the value of a bond or letter of credit, which must be established pursuant to ยง 1530.107 of this part. The value of a bond or letter of credit shall not exceed the license limits established in this section.

(f) A refiner shall not exceed a license balance of 50,000 metric tons, raw value for the sum of all charges and credits.

(g) A refiner may enter raw sugar from Mexico and re-export, within 30 days of entry, refined sugar to Mexico without a charge against the refiner's license balance. If the refined sugar is not re-exported to Mexico within 30 days of entry, the license shall be charged the quantity that has not been re-exported.

(h) A manufacturer or a producer shall not exceed a license balance of 10,000 short tons, refined value for the sum of all charges and credits.

(i) A manufacturer's or a producer's consolidated license balance, or the sum of a parent company and wholly-owned subsidiary license balances if held separately, shall not exceed a license balance of 25,000 short tons, refined value for the sum of all charges and credits.

(j) For the purposes of the programs governed by this part, sugar is fully substitutable. The refined sugar transferred, exported, or used does not need to be the same sugar produced by refining raw sugar entered under subheading 1701.11.20 of the HTS.

(k) A licensee may use an agent to carry out the requirements of participation in the program. The licensee must retain ownership of and responsibility for the product until exported from the U.S. Customs Territory, to a restricted foreign trade zone, or used in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols, and must establish and maintain sufficient documentation, as agreed in the documentation agreement pursuant to ยง 1530.110, to substantiate export of the product or the production of certain polyhydric alcohols.

(l) A license may be assigned only with the written permission of the Licensing Authority and subject to such terms and conditions as the Licensing Authority may impose.

(m) The Licensing Authority may impose such conditions, limitations or restrictions in connection with the use of a license at such time and in such manner as the Licensing Authority, at his or her discretion, determines to be necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the relevant program.
