
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1530 - THE REFINED SUGAR RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, THE SUGAR CONTAINING PRODUCTS RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, AND THE POLYHYDRIC ALCOHOL PROGRAM
##### ยง 1530.112 Administrative appeals.

(a) The licensee may appeal the Licensing Authority's determination by filing a written notice of appeal, signed by the licensee or the licensee's agent, with the Director, Import Policies and Programs Division, Foreign Agricultural Service (Director), or his or her designee. The decision on such an appeal shall be made by the Director, and will be governed by ยง 3017.515 of this title. The appeal must be filed not later than 30 days after the date of the Licensing Authority's determination, and shall contain the licensee's written argument.

(b) The licensee may request an informal hearing. The Director shall arrange a place and time for the hearing, except that it shall be held within 30 days of the filing date of the notice of appeal if the licensee so requests.

(c) The licensee may be represented by counsel, and shall have full opportunity to present any relevant evidence, documentary or testimonial. The Director may permit other individuals to present evidence at the hearing and the licensee shall have an opportunity to question those witnesses.

(d) The licensee may request a verbatim transcript of the hearing, and shall be responsible for arranging for a professional reporter and shall pay all attendant expenses.

(e) The Director shall make the determination on appeal, and may affirm, reverse, modify or remand the Licensing Authority's determination. The Director shall notify the licensee in writing of the determination on appeal and of the basis thereof. The determination on appeal exhausts the licensee's administrative remedies.
