
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1530 - THE REFINED SUGAR RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, THE SUGAR CONTAINING PRODUCTS RE-EXPORT PROGRAM, AND THE POLYHYDRIC ALCOHOL PROGRAM
##### ยง 1530.109 Reporting.

(a) A licensee may submit as often as monthly for charges and credits against a license balance, but must submit at least a quarterly report to the Licensing Authority not later than 90 days after the earliest transaction in the report for which credits or charges are being submitted. The licensee need not report when there have not been transactions during the reporting period.

(b) Reports may be submitted by e-mail, U.S. mail, private courier, or in person, but must be in an integrated database format acceptable to the Licensing Authority. A copy of this format may be obtained from the Licensing Authority. Applicants unable to submit a report in the specified electronic format may seek a temporary waiver to permit them to submit the report on paper.

(c) The reports must include the following for all program transactions:

(1) A unique number associated with the transaction;

(2) The date of the entry, transfer (only a refiner shall report transfers to the Licensing Authority), export, or use;

(3) The quantity of program sugar entered, transferred, exported as refined sugar, or used in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols;

(4) The licensee's license number, or if a transfer is being reported, the licensee's license number as well as the transfer recipient's license number;

(5) The country of origin (entry of raw sugar) or final destination (refined exports), using the exact country code designated in the HTS; and

(6) The initial and final polarization, and final weight (when available) for entries of raw sugar.

(d) Licensees have an affirmative and continuing duty to maintain the accuracy of the information contained in previously submitted reports.

(1) The licensee shall immediately notify the Licensing Authority and promptly request that previously claimed credits be charged back upon discovery that previously claimed exports of refined sugar, refined sugar in sugar containing products, or refined sugar used in the production of polyhydric alcohol were re-entered into the U.S. Customs Territory without substantial transformation, not used in the production of certain polyhydric alcohols, made under a false underlying proof of export, or made but previously submitted exports do not otherwise satisfy the requirements of regulations or the documentation agreement.

(2) Charge backs shall be as of the date of the erroneously claimed credit.
