
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1580 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FARMERS
##### ยง 1580.502 Maintenance of records, audits, and compliance.

(a) Producers making application for benefits under this program must maintain accurate records and accounts that will document that they meet all eligibility requirements specified herein, as may be requested. Such records and accounts must be retained for 2 years after the date of the final payment to the producer under this program.

(b) At all times during regular business hours, authorized representatives of the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any agency thereof, the Comptroller General of the United States shall have access to the premises of the producer in order to inspect, examine, and make copies of the books, records, and accounts, and other written data as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Audits of certifications of average adjusted gross income may be conducted as necessary to determine compliance with the requirements of this subpart. As a part of this audit, income tax forms may be requested and if requested, must be supplied. If a producer has submitted information to FSA, including a certification from a certified public accountant or attorney, that relied upon information from a form previously filed with the Internal Revenue Service, such producer shall provide FSA a copy of any amended form filed with the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days of the filing.

(d) If requested in writing by the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any agency thereof, or the Comptroller General of the United States, the producer shall provide all information and documentation the reviewing authority determines necessary to verify any information or certification provided under this subpart, including all documents referred to in ยง 1580.301(c) of this part, within 30 days. Acceptable production documentation may be submitted by facsimile, in person, or by mail and may include copies of receipts, ledgers, income statements, deposit slips, register tapes, invoices for custom harvesting, records to verify production costs, contemporaneous measurements, truck scale tickets, fish tickets, landing reports, and contemporaneous diaries that are determined acceptable. Failure to provide necessary and accurate information to verify compliance, or failure to comply with this part's requirements, will result in ineligibility for all program benefits subject to this part for the year or years subject to the request.
