
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1580 - TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FARMERS
##### ยง 1580.302 Technical assistance and services.
###### Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan:

(g)The Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan shall:

(1) Include steps reasonably calculated to materially contribute to the economic adjustment of the producer to changing market conditions;

(2) Take into consideration the interests of the workers employed by the producer; and

(3) Demonstrate that the producer will have sufficient resources to implement the business plan.

(h) Upon recommendation by NIFA and approval of the producer's Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan by the Administrator (FAS), the producer shall be entitled to receive an amount not to exceed $8,000 to implement their Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan.

(i) The Initial Business Plan and Long-Term Business Adjustment Plan must be completed and approved within 36 months after a petition is certified.

(j) A producer shall not receive a combined total of more than $12,000 for the Initial Business Plan and the Long Term Business Adjustment Plan in the 36-month period following petition certification.

(k) The Administrator (FAS) may authorize supplemental assistance necessary to defray reasonable transportation and subsistence expenses incurred by a producer in connection with the initial technical assistance, if such initial technical assistance is provided at facilities that are not within normal commuting distance of the regular place of residence of the producer. NIFA and FSA will work with the producer and the Administrator (FAS) to facilitate application for and proper payment of reasonable allowable supplemental expenses. The Administrator (FAS) will not authorize payments to a producer:

(1) For subsistence expenses that exceed the lesser of:

(i) The actual per diem expenses for subsistence incurred by a producer; or

(ii) The prevailing per diem allowance rate authorized under Federal travel regulations; or

(2) For travel expenses that exceed the prevailing mileage rate authorized under the Federal travel regulations.
