
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1590 - UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE LOCAL AND REGIONAL FOOD AID PROCUREMENT PROGRAM
##### ยง 1590.1 Purpose and applicability.

(a)(1) This part sets forth the general terms and conditions governing the award of funds by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) to recipients under the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Local and Regional Food Aid Procurement Program (USDA LRP Program). Under the USDA LRP Program, recipients use FAS-provided funds to purchase eligible commodities in developing countries and pay for associated administrative and operational costs related to the implementation of field-based projects in a foreign country pursuant to an agreement with FAS.

(2) Funds provided by FAS under the USDA LRP Program may be used to provide food assistance in the form of development assistance, an emergency response, or both through a field-based project. Field-based projects intended to provide development assistance will be implemented for a period of not less than one year. Food assistance may be provided under the USDA LRP Program through local and regional procurement, food vouchers, and cash transfers.

(3) FAS will consult with the United States Agency for International Development in the development and implementation of field-based projects that will provide food assistance in the form of an emergency response.

(b)(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR 400.1, USDA adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as USDA's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards.

(2) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and by this part, applies to the USDA LRP Program, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(c) Except as otherwise provided in this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the USDA LRP Program.

(d) In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1726c(a)(4), assistance under the USDA LRP Program may be provided to a private voluntary organization or a cooperative that is, to the extent practicable, registered with the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development or to an intergovernmental organization, such as the World Food Program.

(e)(1) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, and the corresponding provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, apply to all awards by FAS under the USDA LRP Program to all recipients that are private voluntary organizations or cooperatives, including a private voluntary organization that is a foreign organization, as defined in 2 CFR 200.47, and a cooperative that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization. Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, and the corresponding provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and this part, apply only to awards by FAS to recipients that are private voluntary organizations or non-profit cooperatives but that are not foreign organizations. The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and the provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, do not apply to an award by FAS under the USDA LRP Program to a recipient that is a foreign public entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.46, and, therefore, they do not apply to an intergovernmental organization.

(2) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, and the corresponding provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, apply to all subawards to all subrecipients under this part, except in cases:

(i) Where the subrecipient is a foreign public entity; or

(ii) Where FAS determines that the application of these provisions to a subaward to a subrecipient that is a foreign organization would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government or would not be in the best interest of the United States.
