
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1590 - UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE LOCAL AND REGIONAL FOOD AID PROCUREMENT PROGRAM
##### ยง 1590.9 Entry, handling, and labeling of procured commodities and notification requirements.

(a) The recipient must make all necessary arrangements for receiving regionally procured commodities in the target country, including obtaining appropriate approvals for entry and transit. The recipient must make arrangements with the target country government for all regionally procured commodities to be imported and distributed free from all customs duties, tolls, and taxes, unless otherwise specified in the agreement.

(b) The recipient must, as provided in the agreement, arrange for transporting, storing, and distributing the procured commodities from the designated point and time where title to the commodities passes to the recipient.

(c) The recipient must store and maintain all of the procured commodities in good condition from the time of delivery at the port of entry or the point of receipt from the commodity vendor(s) until their distribution.

(d)(1) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of the procured commodities, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:

(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;

(ii) Contains the name of the procured commodities;

(iii) Contains the name of the country of origin;

(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture; and

(v) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.

(2) If a recipient distributes procured commodities that are prepackaged or not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the procured commodities, the country of origin, a statement indicating that the procured commodities are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.

(3) If a recipient distributes food vouchers or cash transfers, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes a statement indicating that the food vouchers or cash transfers are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture. The recipient must ensure that all paper vouchers or receipts for electronic vouchers are printed with a statement indicating that the vouchers are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture. The vouchers must also include a statement indicating that they must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.

(e) The recipient must ensure that signs are displayed at all activity implementation and commodity, food voucher, or cash transfer distribution sites to inform beneficiaries that funding for the project was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.

(f) The recipient must also ensure that all public communications in relation to the project, the activities, or the procured commodities, whether made through print, broadcast, digital, or other media, include a statement acknowledging that funding was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.

(g) FAS may waive compliance with one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section if a recipient demonstrates to FAS that the requirement presents a safety or security risk in the target country. If a recipient determines that compliance with a labeling or notification requirement poses an imminent threat of destruction of property, injury, or loss of life, the recipient must submit a waiver request to FAS as soon as possible. The recipient will not have to comply with such requirement during the period prior to the issuance of a waiver determination by FAS. A recipient may submit a written request for a waiver at any time after the agreement has been signed.

(h) In exceptional circumstances, FAS may, on its own initiative, waive one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section for programmatic reasons.
