
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.1 Purpose and applicability.

(a) This part sets forth the general terms and conditions governing the award of donated commodities and funds by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) to recipients under the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program (McGovern-Dole Program). Under the McGovern-Dole Program, recipients use the donated commodities, proceeds from any sale of such commodities, FAS-provided funds, and program income to implement a project in a foreign country pursuant to an agreement with FAS. When authorized by an agreement, a recipient may use FAS-provided funds to make a local or regional procurement of qualified commodities to implement such a project.

(b)(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR 400.1, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as USDA policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.

(2) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to the McGovern-Dole Program, except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section.

(c) Except as otherwise provided in this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the McGovern-Dole Program.

(d) In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1736o-1(e), assistance under the McGovern-Dole Program may be provided to private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, intergovernmental organizations, governments of developing countries and their agencies, and other organizations.

(e) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and the provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, do not apply to an award by FAS under the McGovern-Dole Program to a recipient that is a foreign public entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.46, and, therefore, they do not apply to a foreign government or its agency or an intergovernmental organization.

(f)(1) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all awards by FAS under the McGovern-Dole Program to all recipients that are private voluntary organizations, including a private voluntary organization that is a foreign organization, as defined in 2 CFR 200.47; cooperatives, including a cooperative that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization; or other organizations, including organizations that are for-profit entities or foreign organizations, but not including intergovernmental organizations.

(2) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all subawards to all subrecipients under this part, except in cases:

(i) Where the subrecipient is a foreign public entity; or

(ii) Where FAS determines that the application of the provisions in this part to a subaward to a subrecipient that is a foreign organization would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government or would not be in the best interest of the United States.

(g)(1) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies only to awards by FAS to recipients that are private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, or other organizations, but that are not for-profit entities or foreign organizations.

(2) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to subawards to subrecipients under this part, except where the subrecipient is a for-profit entity, foreign public entity, or foreign organization.

(3) Audit requirements for recipients and subrecipients that are for-profit entities or foreign organizations are set forth in ยง 1599.19.
