
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1590 - UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE LOCAL AND REGIONAL FOOD AID PROCUREMENT PROGRAM
##### ยง 1590.12 Use of procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, and program income.

(a) A recipient must use the procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, interest, and program income in accordance with the agreement.

(b) A recipient must not use procured commodities, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income for any activity or any expense incurred by the recipient or a subrecipient prior to the start date of the period of performance of the agreement or after the agreement is suspended or terminated, without the prior written approval of FAS.

(c) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of procured commodities on the basis of political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal or religious identity or affiliation of the potential consumers or beneficiaries.

(d) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of procured commodities by the military forces of any government or insurgent group without the specific authorization of FAS.

(e) A recipient must not use FAS-provided funds to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates country-specific economic sanction programs, as specified in the agreement.

(f) A recipient may sell the procured commodities only if the recipient is disposing of damaged procured commodities as specified in ยง 1590.10.

(g) A recipient must deposit and maintain all FAS-provided funds and program income in a bank account until they are used for a purpose authorized under the agreement or the FAS-provided funds are returned to FAS in accordance with ยง 1590.7(a)(6). The account must be insured unless it is in a country where insurance is unavailable. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or FAS determines that this requirement would constitute an undue burden. The recipient must comply with the requirements in ยง 1590.7(a)(7) with regard to the deposit of advance payments by FAS.

(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, a recipient may make adjustments within the agreement budget between direct cost line items without further approval, provided that the total amount of adjustments does not exceed ten percent of the Grand Total Costs, excluding any voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions, in the agreement budget. Adjustments beyond these limits require the prior approval of FAS.

(2) A recipient must not transfer any funds budgeted for participant support costs, as defined in 2 CFR 200.75, to other categories of expense without the prior approval of FAS.

(i) A recipient may use FAS-provided funds or program income to purchase real or personal property only if local law permits the recipient to retain title to such property. However, the recipient must not use FAS-provided funds or program income to pay for the acquisition, development, construction, alteration or upgrade of real property that is:

(1) Owned or managed by a church or other organization engaged exclusively in religious pursuits; or

(2) Used in whole or in part for sectarian purposes, except that a recipient may use FAS-provided funds or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of a structure located on such real property to the extent necessary to avoid spoilage or loss of procured commodities, but only if the structure is not used in whole or in part for any religious or sectarian purposes while the procured commodities are stored in it. If the use of FAS-provided funds or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of such a structure is not specifically provided for in the agreement, the recipient must not use the FAS-provided funds or program income for this purpose until it receives written approval from FAS.

(j) The recipient must comply with 2 CFR 200.321 when procuring goods and services in the United States. When procuring goods and services outside of the United States, the recipient should endeavor to comply with 2 CFR 200.321 where practicable.

(k) As provided for in the agreement, the recipient must enter into a written contract with each provider of goods, services, or construction work that is valued in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold. Each such contract must require the provider to maintain adequate records to account for all donated commodities, funds, or both furnished to the provider by the recipient. The recipient must submit a copy of the signed contracts to FAS upon request.
