
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1590 - UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE LOCAL AND REGIONAL FOOD AID PROCUREMENT PROGRAM
##### ยง 1590.14 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) A recipient must comply with the performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.327 through 200.329.

(b) The recipient must submit financial reports to FAS in accordance with the schedule provided in the agreement. Such reports must provide an accurate accounting of FAS-provided funds, interest earned, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions.

(c)(1) The recipient must submit performance reports to FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement. These reports must include the information required in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(2), including additional pertinent information regarding the recipient's progress, measured against established indicators, baselines, and targets, towards achieving the expected results specified in the agreement. This reporting must include, for each performance indicator, a comparison of actual accomplishments with the baseline and the targets established for the period. When actual accomplishments deviate significantly from targeted goals, the recipient must provide an explanation in the report.

(2) The recipient must ensure the accuracy and reliability of the performance data submitted to FAS in performance reports. At any time during the period of performance of the agreement, FAS may review the recipient's performance data to determine whether it is accurate and reliable. A recipient must comply with all requests made by FAS or an entity designated by FAS in relation to such reviews.

(d) Baseline, interim, and final evaluation reports are required for all agreements for development assistance projects, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. A rapid needs assessment and a final evaluation report are required for all agreements for emergency response projects, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. An interim evaluation report is not required for emergency response projects, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. The reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeline provided in the FAS-approved evaluation plan. Evaluation reports submitted to FAS will be made public in an effort to increase accountability and transparency and share lessons learned and best practices.

(e) A recipient must submit reports to FAS, using a form as prescribed by FAS, covering the receipt, handling, and disposition of the procured commodities and, if applicable, food vouchers and cash transfers. Such reports must be submitted to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement, until all of the procured commodities and, if applicable, food vouchers and cash transfers have been distributed and such disposition has been reported to FAS.

(f) If requested by FAS, the recipient must provide to FAS additional information or reports relating to the agreement.

(g) If a recipient requires an extension of a reporting deadline, it must ensure that FAS receives an extension request at least five business days prior to the reporting deadline. FAS may decline to consider a request for an extension that it receives after this time period. FAS will consider requests for reporting deadline extensions on a case by case basis and make a decision based on the merits of each request. FAS will consider factors such as unforeseen or extenuating circumstances and past performance history when evaluating requests for extensions.

(h) A recipient must retain records and permit access to records in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337. The date of submission of the final expenditure report, as referenced in 2 CFR 200.333, will be the final date of submission of the reports required by paragraph (e) of this section, as prescribed by FAS. The recipient must retain copies of and make available to FAS all sales receipts, contracts, or other documents related to the procurement of eligible commodities, as well as records of dispatch received from ocean carriers or overland transportation companies.
