
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1590 - UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE LOCAL AND REGIONAL FOOD AID PROCUREMENT PROGRAM
##### ยง 1590.19 Audit requirements.

(a) Subpart F, Audit requirements, of 2 CFR part 200 applies to recipients and subrecipients under this part other than those that are for-profit entities, foreign public entities, or foreign organizations.

(b) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total of at least the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards from FAS, is required to obtain an audit. Such a recipient or subrecipient has the following two options to satisfy this requirement:

(1)(i) A financial related audit (as defined in the Government Auditing Standards, GPO Stock #020-000-00-265-4) of the agreement or subagreement, in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, if the recipient or subrecipient receives Federal awards under only one FAS program; or

(ii) A financial related audit of all Federal awards from FAS, in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, if the recipient or subrecipient receives Federal awards under multiple FAS programs; or

(2) An audit that meets the requirements contained in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.

(c) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total that is less than the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards from FAS, is exempt from requirements for a non-Federal audit for that year, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, but it must make records available for review by appropriate officials of Federal agencies.

(d) FAS may require an annual financial audit of an agreement or subagreement when the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 is not met. In that case, FAS must provide funds under the agreement for this purpose, and the recipient or subrecipient, as applicable, must arrange for such audit and submit it to FAS.

(e) When a recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization is required to obtain a financial audit under this section, it must provide a copy of the audit to FAS within 60 days after the end of its fiscal year.

(f) FAS, the USDA Office of Inspector General, or the U.S. Government Accountability Office may conduct or arrange for additional audits of any recipients or subrecipients, including for-profit entities and foreign organizations. Recipients and subrecipients must promptly comply with all requests related to such audits. If FAS conducts or arranges for an additional audit, such as an audit with respect to a particular agreement, FAS will fund the full cost of such an audit, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.503(d).
