
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.11 Claims for damage to or loss of donated or procured commodities.

(a)(1) FAS will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the donated commodities prior to the transfer of title to the donated commodities to the recipient. The recipient will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the donated commodities after the transfer of title to the donated commodities.

(2) The recipient will be responsible for claims arising out of damage to or loss of a quantity of the procured commodities after the transfer of title to the procured commodities from the commodity vendor(s) to the recipient.

(b) If a recipient has title to donated commodities or procured commodities that have been damaged or lost, and the value of the damaged or lost commodities is estimated to be in excess of $20,000, the recipient must:

(1) Notify FAS immediately and provide detailed information about the circumstances surrounding such damage or loss, the quantity of damaged or lost commodities, and the value of the damage or loss;

(2) Promptly upon discovery of the damage or loss, initiate a claim arising out of such damage or loss, including, if appropriate, initiating an action to collect pursuant to a commercial insurance contract;

(3) Take all necessary action to pursue the claim diligently and within any applicable periods of limitations; and

(4) Provide to FAS copies of all documentation relating to the claim.

(c) If a recipient has title to donated commodities or procured commodities that have been damaged or lost, and the value of the damaged or lost commodities is estimated to be $20,000 or less, the recipient must notify FAS in accordance with the agreement and provide detailed information about the damage or loss in the next report required to be filed under ยง 1599.14(f)(1) or (2).

(d)(1) The value of a claim for lost donated commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by FAS with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS. The value of a claim for lost procured commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities.

(2) The value of a claim for damaged donated commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by FAS with respect to such commodities, as well as such costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS, less any funds generated if such commodities are sold in accordance with ยง 1599.10(g)(1). The value of a claim for damaged procured commodities will be determined on the basis of the commodity acquisition, transportation, and related costs incurred by the recipient and paid by FAS with respect to such commodities, less any funds generated if such commodities are sold in accordance with ยง 1599.10(g)(1).

(e) If FAS determines that a recipient has not initiated a claim or is not exercising due diligence in the pursuit of a claim, FAS may require the recipient to assign its rights to initiate or pursue the claim to FAS. Failure by the recipient to initiate a claim or exercise due diligence in the pursuit of a claim will be considered by FAS during the review of applications for subsequent food assistance awards.

(f)(1) A recipient may retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims collection action initiated by it in accordance with this section, or recovered pursuant to any insurance policy or other similar form of indemnification, but such funds must be expended in accordance with the agreement or for other purposes approved in advance by FAS.

(2) FAS will retain any funds obtained as a result of a claims collection action initiated by it under this section; provided, however, that if the recipient paid for the transportation of the donated commodities or procured commodities or a portion thereof, FAS will use a portion of such funds to reimburse the recipient for such expense on a prorated basis.
