
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.8 Transportation of donated or procured commodities.

(a) Shipments of donated commodities and procured commodities requiring ocean transportation are subject to the requirements of 46 U.S.C. 55305, regarding carriage on U.S.-flag vessels.

(b) Transportation of donated commodities and other goods such as bags that may be provided by FAS under the McGovern-Dole Program will be arranged for under a specific agreement in the manner determined by FAS. Such transportation will be arranged for by:

(1) FAS in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in 48 CFR chapter 1, the Agriculture Acquisition Regulation (AGAR) in 48 CFR chapter 4, and directives issued by the Director, Office of Procurement and Property Management, USDA; or

(2) The recipient, with payment by FAS, in the manner specified in the agreement.

(c) A recipient must arrange for all transportation of procured commodities. FAS will pay for the transportation, as provided for in the agreement, through an advance payment or reimbursement to the recipient.

(d) A recipient that is responsible for arranging for the transportation of donated commodities or procured commodities must declare in the transportation contract the point at which the ocean carrier or overland transportation company will take custody of the donated commodities or procured commodities to be transported.

(e) A recipient may only use the services of a transportation company that is legally operating in the country in which it will be transporting the donated commodities or procured commodities and that would not have a conflict of interest in transporting such donated commodities or procured commodities.

(f) A recipient that arranges for transportation in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may only use the services of a freight forwarder that is licensed by the Federal Maritime Commission and that would not have a conflict of interest in carrying out the freight forwarder duties. To assist FAS in determining whether there is a potential conflict of interest, the recipient must submit to FAS a certification indicating that the freight forwarder:

(1) Is not engaged in, and will not engage in, supplying commodities or furnishing ocean transportation or ocean transportation-related services for commodities provided under any McGovern-Dole Program agreement to which the recipient is a party; and

(2) Is not affiliated with the recipient and has not made arrangements to give or receive any payment, kickback, or illegal benefit in connection with its selection as an agent of the recipient.
