
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.6 Local and regional procurement of commodities.

(a)(1) An agreement may authorize a recipient to use FAS-provided funds to procure qualified commodities, through a local or regional procurement or both, to implement a project. The provisions of this section will apply in such a situation.

(2) The agreement will specify the types of qualified commodities approved for procurement; the approved purchase country(ies); and the approved method(s) of procurement (local procurement, regional procurement, or a combination of these methods). The agreement will prohibit the recipient from procuring qualified commodities from any country not specified in the agreement or utilizing methods of procurement that differ from those approved in the agreement.

(b) In carrying out an agreement, the recipient must comply with the following requirements, as applicable, relating to the procurement of qualified commodities under the agreement:

(1) The recipient must procure qualified commodities at a reasonable market price with respect to the economy of the purchase country, as determined by FAS.

(2) If the recipient procures qualified commodities that are grains, legumes, or pulses, the commodities must meet the food safety standards of the target country; provided, however, that if the target country does not have food safety standards for grains, legumes, or pulses, as applicable, then the recipient must ensure that such commodities meet the food safety standards specified in the agreement.

(3) If the recipient procures qualified commodities that are food products other than grains, legumes or pulses, such as processed foods, fortified blended foods, and enriched foods, the commodities must comply, in terms of raw materials, composition, or manufacture, with the food safety standards specified in the agreement.

(4) If the recipient procures qualified commodities that are cereals, groundnuts, or tree nuts, or food products derived from or containing cereals, groundnuts, or tree nuts, the commodities must be tested for aflatoxin and have their moisture content certified. The maximum acceptable total aflatoxin level is 20 parts per billion, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration action level for aflatoxin in human foods.

(5) If the recipient procures an unprocessed commodity, it must ensure that the commodity has been produced either in the target country or in another developing country within the target region.

(6) If the recipient procures a processed commodity, it must ensure that the processing took place, and the primary ingredient has been produced, either in the target country or in another developing country within the target region. The primary ingredient is determined on the basis of weight in the case of solid foods, or volume in the case of liquids.

(7) If the recipient procures qualified commodities through a competitive tender, the recipient must specify the minimally acceptable commodity specifications and food safety and quality assurance standards in the tender. Purchases that are made from commercial wholesalers in a local or regional market must meet the food safety and quality assurance standards specified in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section.

(8) The recipient must enter into a contract that complies with this paragraph (b) for every local or regional procurement of qualified commodities from a commodity vendor. The recipient must ensure that the contract between the recipient and the commodity vendor clearly specifies the country of origin and the specific market(s) in which the procurement will take place, commodity safety and quality assurance standards, product specifications, price per metric ton, and delivery terms. The recipient will be required to make such contract available to FAS upon request.

(9) The recipient must enter into a contract with an established inspection service to survey and report on the safety, quality, and condition of all procured commodities, prior to their shipment and distribution. The recipient will be required to submit any survey reports or certificates issued by such inspection service to FAS upon request.

(c) The agreement will require the recipient to submit a procurement plan for FAS's approval within the time period specified in the agreement. The procurement plan will include time periods, broken down by month, for commodity procurement, delivery, and distribution. The agreement will require the recipient to comply with the procurement plan, as approved by FAS, and will prohibit the recipient from making any changes to the procurement plan without obtaining the prior written approval of FAS.
