
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.9 Entry, handling, and labeling of donated or procured commodities and notification requirements.

(a) A recipient must make all necessary arrangements for receiving in the target country the donated commodities and any procured commodities obtained through regional procurement, including obtaining appropriate approvals for entry and transit. The recipient must make arrangements with the target country government for all donated commodities that will be distributed to beneficiaries, and all procured commodities, to be imported and distributed free from all customs duties, tolls, and taxes. A recipient is encouraged to make similar arrangements, where possible, with the government of a country where donated commodities to be sold or bartered are delivered.

(b) A recipient must, as provided in the agreement, arrange for transporting, storing, and distributing the donated commodities or procured commodities from the designated point and time where title to the donated commodities or procured commodities passes to the recipient.

(c)(1) A recipient must store and maintain the donated commodities in good condition from the time of delivery at the port of entry or the point of receipt from the originating carrier until their distribution, sale, or barter.

(2) A recipient must store and maintain the procured commodities in good condition from the time of delivery at the port of entry or the point of receipt from the commodity vendor(s) until their distribution.

(d)(1) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:

(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;

(ii) Contains the name of the donated commodities;

(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities are furnished by the United States Department of Agriculture; and

(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, exchanged, or bartered.

(2) If a recipient arranges for the processing and repackaging of donated commodities that are to be distributed, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:

(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;

(ii) Contains the name of the processed product;

(iii) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product was made with commodities furnished by the United States Department of Agriculture; and

(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the processed product must not be sold, exchanged, or bartered.

(3) If a recipient arranges for the packaging or repackaging of procured commodities, the recipient must ensure that the packaging:

(i) Is plainly labeled in the language of the target country;

(ii) Contains the name of the procured commodities;

(iii) Contains the name of the country of origin;

(iv) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities are furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture; and

(v) Includes a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.

(4)(i) If a recipient distributes donated commodities that are not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the donated commodities, a statement indicating that the commodities are being furnished by the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the donated commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.

(ii) If a recipient distributes procured commodities that are prepackaged or not packaged, the recipient must display a sign at the distribution site that includes the name of the procured commodities, the country of origin, a statement indicating that the procured commodities are being furnished through a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture, and a statement indicating that the procured commodities must not be sold, bartered, or exchanged.

(e) A recipient must ensure that signs are displayed at all activity implementation and commodity distribution sites to inform beneficiaries that funding for the project was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.

(f) A recipient must also ensure that all public communications relating to the project, the activities, or the donated commodities or procured commodities, whether made through print, broadcast, digital, or other media, include a statement acknowledging that funding was provided by the United States Department of Agriculture.

(g) FAS may waive compliance with one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section if a recipient demonstrates to FAS that the requirement presents a safety or security risk in the target country. If a recipient determines that compliance with a labeling or notification requirement poses an imminent threat of destruction of property, injury, or loss of life, the recipient must submit a waiver request to FAS as soon as possible. The recipient will not have to comply with such requirement during the period prior to the issuance of a waiver determination by FAS. A recipient may submit a written request for a waiver at any time after the agreement has been signed.

(h) In exceptional circumstances, FAS may, on its own initiative, waive one or more of the labeling and notification requirements in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section for programmatic reasons.
