
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### § 1599.12 Use of donated or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, and program income.

(a) A recipient must use the donated commodities or procured commodities, any sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, and program income in accordance with the agreement.

(b) A recipient must not use donated commodities or procured commodities, sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income for any activity or any expense incurred by the recipient or a subrecipient prior to the start date of the period of performance of the agreement or after the agreement is suspended or terminated, without the prior written approval of FAS.

(c) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities or procured commodities on the basis of political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal, or religious identity or affiliation of the potential consumers or beneficiaries.

(d) A recipient must not permit the distribution, handling, or allocation of donated commodities or procured commodities by the military forces of any government or insurgent group without the specific authorization of FAS.

(e) A recipient must not use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, or program income to acquire goods and services, either directly or indirectly through another party, in a manner that violates a U.S. Government economic sanction program, as specified in the agreement.

(f)(1) A recipient may sell or barter donated commodities only if such sale or barter is provided for in the agreement or the recipient is disposing of damaged donated commodities as specified in § 1599.10(g). The recipient must sell donated commodities at a reasonable market price. The recipient must obtain approval of its proposed sale price from FAS before selling donated commodities. The recipient must use any sale proceeds, interest, program income, or goods or services derived from the sale or barter of the donated commodities only as provided in the agreement.

(2) A recipient may sell procured commodities only if the recipient is disposing of damaged procured commodities as specified in § 1599.10(g).

(g) A recipient must deposit and maintain all sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, and program income in a bank account until they are used for a purpose authorized under the agreement or the FAS-provided funds are returned to FAS in accordance with § 1599.7(f)(6). The account must be insured unless it is in a country where insurance is unavailable. The account must be interest-bearing, unless one of the exceptions in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(8) applies or FAS determines that the requirement in this paragraph (g) would constitute an undue burden. The recipient must comply with the requirements in § 1599.7(f)(7) with regard to the deposit of advance payments by FAS.

(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, a recipient may make adjustments within the agreement budget between direct cost line items without further approval, provided that the total amount of adjustments does not exceed the amount specified in the agreement. Adjustments beyond the limits in this paragraph (h) require the prior approval of FAS.

(2) A recipient must not transfer any funds budgeted for participant support costs, as defined in 2 CFR 200.75, to other categories of expense without the prior approval of FAS.

(i) A recipient may use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to purchase real or personal property only if local law permits the recipient to retain title to such property. However, a recipient must not use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to pay for the acquisition, development, construction, alteration or upgrade of real property that is:

(1) Owned or managed by a church or other organization engaged exclusively in religious pursuits; or

(2) Used in whole or in part for sectarian purposes, except that a recipient may use sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of a structure located on such real property to the extent necessary to avoid spoilage or loss of donated commodities or procured commodities, but only if the structure is not used in whole or in part for any religious or sectarian purposes while the donated commodities or procured commodities are stored in it. If the use of sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income to pay for repairs to or rehabilitation of such a structure is not specifically provided for in the agreement, the recipient must not use the sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, or program income for this purpose until it receives written approval from FAS.

(j) A recipient must comply with 2 CFR 200.321 when procuring goods and services in the United States. When procuring goods and services outside of the United States, a recipient should endeavor to comply with 2 CFR 200.321 where practicable.

(k) A recipient must enter into a written contract with each provider of goods, services, or construction work that is valued at or above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold. Each such contract must require the provider to maintain adequate records to account for all donated commodities, funds, or both furnished to the provider by the recipient and to comply with any other applicable requirements that may be specified by FAS in the agreement. The recipient must submit a copy of each signed contract to FAS, as specified in the agreement.
