
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.14 Reporting and record keeping requirements.

(a) A recipient must comply with the performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements in the agreement and 2 CFR 200.327 through 200.329.

(b) A recipient must submit financial reports to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. Such reports must provide an accurate accounting of sale proceeds, FAS-provided funds, interest, program income, and voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions.

(c)(1) A recipient must submit performance reports to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement. These reports must include the information required in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(2), including additional pertinent information regarding the recipient's progress, measured against established indicators, baselines, and targets, towards achieving the expected results specified in the agreement. This reporting must include, for each performance indicator, a comparison of actual accomplishments with the baseline and the targets established for the period. When actual accomplishments deviate significantly from targeted goals, the recipient must provide an explanation in the report.

(2) A recipient must ensure the accuracy and reliability of the performance data submitted to FAS in performance reports. At any time during the period of performance of the agreement, FAS may review the recipient's performance data to determine whether it is accurate and reliable. The recipient must comply with all requests made by FAS or an entity designated by FAS in relation to such reviews.

(d) Baseline, interim, and final evaluation reports are required for all agreements, unless otherwise specified in the agreement. The reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeline provided in the FAS-approved evaluation plan. Evaluation reports submitted to FAS may be made public in an effort to increase accountability and transparency and share lessons learned and best practices.

(e)(1) A recipient must, within 30 days after export of all or a portion of the donated commodities, submit evidence of such export to FAS, in the manner set forth in the agreement. The evidence may be submitted through an electronic media approved by FAS or by providing the carrier's on board bill of lading. The evidence of export must show the kind and quantity of commodities exported, the date of export, and the country where the commodities will be delivered. The date of export is the date that the ocean carrier carrying the donated commodities sails from the final U.S. load port.

(2) A recipient must, if it has obtained procured commodities requiring ocean transportation, within 30 days after export of all or a portion of the procured commodities, submit evidence of such export to FAS, in the manner set forth in the agreement. The evidence may be submitted through an electronic media approved by FAS or by providing the carrier's on board bill of lading. The evidence of export must show the kind and quantity of commodities exported, the date of export, and the country where the commodities will be delivered. The date of export is the date that the ocean carrier carrying the procured commodities sails from the load port in the target region.

(f)(1) A recipient must submit reports to FAS, using a form prescribed by FAS, covering the receipt, handling, and disposition of the donated commodities or procured commodities. Such reports must be submitted to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement, until all of the donated commodities or procured commodities have been distributed, sold or bartered and such disposition has been reported to FAS.

(2) If the agreement authorizes the sale or barter of donated commodities, the recipient must submit to FAS, using a form prescribed by FAS, reports covering the receipt and use of the sale proceeds when the donated commodities were sold, the goods and services derived from barter when the donated commodities were bartered, and program income. Such reports must be submitted to FAS, by the dates and for the reporting periods specified in the agreement, until all of the sale proceeds and program income have been disbursed and reported to FAS. When reporting financial information, the recipient must include the amounts in U.S. dollars and the exchange rate if proceeds are held in local currency.

(g) If requested by FAS, a recipient must provide to FAS additional information or reports relating to the agreement.

(h) If a recipient requires an extension of a reporting deadline, it must ensure that FAS receives an extension request at least five business days prior to the reporting deadline. FAS may decline to consider a request for an extension that it receives after this time period. FAS will consider requests for reporting deadline extensions on a case by case basis and make a decision based on the merits of each request. FAS will consider factors such as unforeseen or extenuating circumstances and past performance history when evaluating requests for extensions.

(i) A recipient must retain records and permit access to records in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337. The date of submission of the final expenditure report, as referenced in 2 CFR 200.333, will be the final date of submission of the reports required by paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, as prescribed by FAS. The recipient must retain copies of and make available to FAS all sales receipts, contracts, or other documents related to the procurement of qualified commodities, the sale or barter of donated commodities, and any goods or services derived from such barter, as well as records of dispatch received from ocean carriers or overland transportation companies.
