
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.18 Opportunities to object and appeals.

(a) FAS will provide an opportunity to a recipient to object to, and provide information and documentation challenging, any action taken by FAS pursuant to ยง 1599.16. FAS will comply with any requirements for hearings, appeals, or other administrative proceedings to which the recipient is entitled under any other statute or regulation applicable to the action involved. For example, if the action taken by FAS pursuant to ยง 1599.16 is to initiate suspension or debarment proceedings as authorized under 2 CFR parts 180 and 417, then the requirements in 2 CFR parts 180 and 417 will apply instead of the requirements in this section. In the absence of other applicable statutory or regulatory requirements, the requirements set forth in this section will apply.

(b) The recipient must submit its objection in writing, along with any documentation, to the official specified in the agreement within 30 days after the date of FAS's written notification to the recipient of the FAS action being challenged. This official will endeavor to notify the recipient of his or her determination (the initial determination) within 60 days after the date that FAS received the recipient's written objection.

(c) The recipient may appeal the initial determination to the Administrator, FAS. An appeal must be in writing and be submitted to the Office of the Administrator within 30 days after the date of the initial determination. The recipient may submit additional documentation with its appeal.

(d) The Administrator will base the determination on appeal upon information contained in the administrative record and will endeavor to make a determination within 60 days after the date that FAS received the appeal. The determination of the Administrator will be the final determination of FAS. The recipient must exhaust all administrative remedies contained in this section before pursuing judicial review of a determination by the Administrator.
