
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XV - Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1599 - McGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
##### ยง 1599.19 Audit requirements.

(a) The audit requirements in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200 apply to recipients and subrecipients under this part other than those that are for-profit entities, foreign public entities, or foreign organizations.

(b) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total of at least the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards, is required to obtain an audit. Such a recipient or subrecipient has the following two options to satisfy the requirement in this paragraph (b):

(1)(i) A financial audit of the agreement or subagreement, in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards issued by the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO), if the recipient or subrecipient expends Federal awards under only one FAS program during such fiscal year; or

(ii) A financial audit of all Federal awards from FAS, in accordance with GAO's Government Auditing Standards, if the recipient or subrecipient expends Federal awards under multiple FAS programs during such fiscal year; or

(2) An audit that meets the requirements contained in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.

(c) A recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization, and that expends, during its fiscal year, a total that is less than the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 in Federal awards, is exempt from requirements under this section for an audit for that year, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section, but it must make records available for review by appropriate officials of Federal agencies.

(d) FAS may require an annual financial audit of an agreement or subagreement when the audit requirement threshold in 2 CFR 200.501 is not met. In that case, FAS must provide funds under the agreement for this purpose, and the recipient or subrecipient, as applicable, must arrange for such audit and submit it to FAS.

(e) When a recipient or subrecipient that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization is required to obtain a financial audit under this section, it must provide a copy of the audit to FAS within 60 days after the end of its fiscal year.

(f) FAS, the USDA Office of Inspector General, or GAO may conduct or arrange for additional audits of any recipients or subrecipients, including for-profit entities and foreign organizations. Recipients and subrecipients must promptly comply with all requests related to such audits. If FAS conducts or arranges for an additional audit, such as an audit with respect to a particular agreement, FAS will fund the full cost of such an audit, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.503(d).
