
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1709 - ASSISTANCE TO HIGH ENERGY COST COMMUNITIES
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 1709.10 Ineligible grant purposes.

Grant funds under this part may not be used to:

(a) Pay costs of preparing the application package for funding under programs in this part, or for any finders fees or incentives for persons or entities assisting in the preparation or submission of an application.

(b) Fund political activities;

(c) Pay any judgment or debt owed to the United States; or

(d) Pay construction costs of the project incurred prior to the date of grant award except as provided herein. Construction work should not be started and obligations for such work or materials should not be incurred before the grant is approved.

(1) Applicants may request Agency approval for reimbursement of pre-award construction obligations if there are compelling reasons for proceeding with construction before grant approval. Such requests may be approved if the Agency determines that:

(i) Compelling reasons, as determined by the Agency, exist for incurring obligations before grant approval;

(ii) The obligations will be incurred for authorized grant purposes;

(iii) All environmental requirements applicable to the Agency and the applicant have been met;

(iv) The applicant has the legal authority to incur the obligations at the time proposed, and payment of the debts will remove any basis for any mechanic's, material, or other liens that may attach to the grant financed property: and

(v) The expenditure is incurred no more than 18 months before the date of the Administrator's approval of the grant award.

(2) The Agency may authorize payment of approved pre-award project construction obligations at the time of award approval. The applicant's request and the Agency's authorization for paying such obligations shall be in writing.
