
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1709 - ASSISTANCE TO HIGH ENERGY COST COMMUNITIES
##### Subpart A - General Requirements
###### ยง 1709.12 Reporting requirements.

To support Agency monitoring of project performance and use of grant funds, Grantees shall file periodic reports, required under 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, as provided in this part, and the grant agreement as follows:

(a) A financial status report listing project expenditures by budget category in such form and at such times as provided in the grant agreement.

(b) Project performance reports in such form and at such intervals as provided in the grant agreement. The project performance report shall compare accomplishments to the objectives stated in the proposal and grant agreement. The project performance report should identify all completed tasks with supporting documentation. If the project schedule as approved in the grant agreement is not being met, the report should discuss the problems or delays that may affect completion of the project. Objectives for the next reporting period should be listed. Compliance with any special condition on the use of award funds should be discussed. Reports are due as provided in the grant agreement.

(c) A final project performance report with supporting documentation in such form and at the time specified in the grant agreement.

(d) Such other reports as the Agency determines are necessary to assure effective grant monitoring as part of the grant agreement or the grant announcement as a condition of the grant award or advances of funds.
