
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1709 - ASSISTANCE TO HIGH ENERGY COST COMMUNITIES
##### Subpart B - RUS High Energy Cost Grant Program
###### ยง 1709.123 Evaluation criteria and weights.
####### Comprehensiveness and feasibility.

(1)Reviewers will assess the technical and economic feasibility of the project and how well its goals and objectives address the challenges of the eligible communities. The panel will review the proposed design, construction, equipment and materials for the proposed energy facilities to determine technical feasibility. Reviewers may propose additional conditions on the grant award to assure that the project is technically sound. Budgets will be reviewed for completeness and the strength of non-Federal funding commitments. Points may not be awarded unless sufficient detail is provided to determine whether or not funds are being used for qualified purposes. Reviewers will consider the adequacy of the applicant's budget and resources to carry out the project as proposed. Reviewers will also evaluate how the applicant proposes to manage available resources such as grant funds, income generated from the facilities and any other financing sources to maintain and operate a financially viable project once the grant period has ended. Reviewers must make a finding of operational sustainability for any points to be awarded. Projects for which future grant funding is likely to be required in order to assure ongoing operations will not receive any points.
