
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart B - Types of Loans and Loan Guarantees
###### ยง 1710.53 Refinancing.
####### General.

(a)(1) Subject to the availability of funds for such purpose, RUS may use loan funds to refinance prior loans made or guaranteed under the RE Act, as amended, (7 U.S.C. 902(a)). Such refinancing must be in the interest of rural consumers, taxpayers, rural economic development or otherwise in the public interest, as determined by the Administrator.

(2) The Secretary's authority to make loans for refinancing under this section is in addition to any other authority granted to the Secretary to make or modify loans under the RE Act or any other statutory authority.

(3) Nothing in this section changes the policies or standards set forth in 7 CFR part 1717, subpart Y, or the terms and conditions of the agreements entered into between RUS and FFB or the notes issued to RUS or FFB in connection with RUS or FFB loans.

(4) When funds are made available under this section, RUS will issue a public notice in thespecifying the amount of funds available under this section. The notice will contain additional application procedures specific to the amount and type of funding available and new loan application periods related to the availability of funds. The notice may also include Administration priorities, such as directing benefits to disadvantaged communities and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Administrator, in setting funding priorities and application periods, may consider the amount of available funds, RUS resources, RUS priorities and policy goals, and any other factors related to the efficient operation of the agency.
