
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart B - Types of Loans and Loan Guarantees
###### ยง 1710.53 Refinancing.
####### Application process.

(f)(1) When funds are available, the RUS will publish a notice identifying the amount and type of funds available for refinancing for the funding period in total and per applicant. The notice will identify the priorities established by the Agency for the use of the available funds. Borrowers seeking to refinance RUS loans or FFB loans will be required to submit, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) Borrower reference number;

(ii) Note designation;

(iii) Rural Electric Telephone (RET) Advance loan account number;

(iv) FFB complete identifier for an FFB loan;

(v) Date(s) of advance;

(vi) Interest rate;

(vii) Principal outstanding;

(viii) Current final maturity date;

(ix) Short narrative explaining how the proposed refinancing would be in the interest of rural consumers, taxpayers, rural economic development or otherwise in the public interest; and

(x) The requested final maturity date for the new loan. The requested final maturity date must be for a period not to exceed the maximum maturity date allowed by statute, regulation, or applicable notice. An eligible entity must submit a certification that the remaining useful life of its electric system is equal to or exceeds the new requested final maturity date and, that the requested final maturity date does not exceed the term of its wholesale power contract with its members or with its generation and transmission supplier (where applicable).

(2) The Agency reserves the right to offer a loan under this section with a maturity date that varies from the requested date. Unless the Administrator makes a specific determination to the contrary, the Electric Program will not approve a new loan that includes a final maturity date that exceeds the remaining useful life of its electric system or any applicable wholesale power contract term.

(3) On a case-by-case basis, as necessary, the Administrator may approve a new loan that includes a final maturity that exceeds the remaining useful life of the applicant's electric system or applicable wholesale power contract term provided the Administrator finds that the requirements contained in ยง 1710.151 are satisfied, the new loan is feasible under ยง 1710.151(b), and such action addresses critical environmental or consumer needs.
