
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart C - Loan Purposes and Basic Policies
###### ยง 1710.112 Loan feasibility.

(a) RUS will make a loan only if there is reasonable assurance that the loan, together with all outstanding loans and other obligations of the borrower, will be repaid in full as scheduled, in accordance with the mortgage, notes, and loan contracts. The borrower must provide evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that the loan will be repaid in full as scheduled, and that all other obligations of the borrower will be met.

(b) Based on evidence submitted by the borrower and other information, RUS will use the following criteria to evaluate loan feasibility:

(1) Projections of power requirements, rates, revenues, expenses, margins, and other factors for the present system and proposed additions are based on reasonable assumptions and adequate supporting data and analysis, including analysis of a range of assumptions for the significant variables, when required by ยง 1710.300(d)(5).

(2) Projected revenues from the rates proposed by the borrower are adequate to meet the required TIER and DSC ratios based on the borrower's total costs, including the projected maximum debt service cost of the new loan.

(3) The economics of the borrower's operations and service area are such that consumers can reasonably be expected to pay the proposed rates required to cover all expenses and meet RUS TIER and DSC requirements, and the borrower can reasonably compete with other utilities and other energy sources to prevent substantial load loss while providing satisfactory service to its consumers.

(4) Risks of possible loss of substantial loads from large consumers or from load concentrations in particular industries will not substantially impair loan feasibility.

(5) Risks of loss of portions of the borrower's service territory from annexation or other causes will not substantially impair loan feasibility. If there appears to be a substantial risk, RUS may require additional information from the borrower, such as a summary and analysis of the risk by the borrower; state, county or local planning reports having information on projected growth or expansion plans of local communities; annexation plans of the municipalities in question; and any other relevant information.

(6) In states where rates or investment decisions are subject to approval by state regulatory authorities, there is reasonable expectation that such approvals will be forthcoming to enable repayment of the loan in full according to its terms.

(7) The experience and performance of the system's management is acceptable.

(8) In the case of joint ventures, the borrower has sufficient management control or other contractual safeguards with respect to the construction and operation of the jointly owned facility to ensure that the borrower's interests are protected and the credit risk is minimized.

(9) The borrower has implemented adequate financial and management controls and there are and have been no significant financial or other irregularities.

(10) The borrower's projected capitalization, measured by its equity as a percentage of total assets, is adequate to enable the borrower to meet its financial needs and to provide service consistent with the RE Act. Among the factors to be considered in reviewing the borrower's projected capitalization are the economic strength of the borrower's service territory, the inherent cost of providing service to the territory, the disparity in rates between the borrower and neighboring utilities, the intensity of competition faced by the borrower from neighboring utilities and other power sources, and the relative amount of new capital investment required to serve existing or new loads.
