
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart C - Loan Purposes and Basic Policies
###### ยง 1710.114 TIER, DSC, OTIER and ODSC requirements.
####### Coverage ratios.

(b)(1) Distribution borrowers. The minimum coverage ratios required of distribution borrowers whether applied on an annual or average basis, are a TIER of 1.25, DSC of 1.25, OTIER of 1.1, and ODSC of 1.1. OTIER and ODSC shall apply to distribution borrowers that receive a loan approved on or after January 29, 1996.

(2) The minimum coverage ratios required of power supply borrowers, whether applied on an annual or average basis, are a TIER of 1.05 and DSC of 1.00.

(3) When new loan contracts are executed, the Administrator may, case by case, increase the coverage ratios of distribution and power supply borrowers above the levels cited in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2), respectively, of this section if the Administrator determines that the higher ratios are required to ensure reasonable security for and/or the repayment of loans made or guaranteed by RUS. Also, the Administrator may, case by case, reduce said coverage ratios if the Administrator determines that the lower ratios are required to ensure reasonable security for and/or the repayment of loans made or guaranteed by RUS. Policies for coverage ratios following certain mergers, consolidations, and transfers of systems substantially in their entirety are in 7 CFR 1717.155.

(4) If a distribution borrower has in service or under construction a substantial amount of generation and associated transmission plant financed at a cost of capital substantially higher than the cost of funds under section 305 of the RE Act, then the Administrator may establish, in his or her sole discretion, blended levels for TIER, DSC, OTIER, and ODSC based on the respective shares of total utility plant represented by said generation and associated transmission plant and by distribution and other transmission plant.
