
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart C - Loan Purposes and Basic Policies
###### ยง 1710.110 Supplemental financing.

(a) Except in the case of financial hardship as determined by the Administrator, and following certain mergers, consolidations, and transfers of systems substantially in their entirety as set forth in 7 CFR 1717.154, applicants for a municipal rate loan will be required to obtain a portion of their loan funds from a supplemental source without an RUS guarantee, in the amounts set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. RUS will normally grant a lien accommodation to the supplemental lender. RUS does not require supplemental financing in conjunction with an RUS guaranteed loan. However, if a borrower elects to obtain supplemental financing in conjunction with a guaranteed loan, the granting of RUS's loan guarantee may be conditioned on the borrower's obtaining supplemental financing.

(b) The terms and conditions of supplemental financing and any security offered to the supplemental lender are subject to RUS approval. Generally, supplemental loans must have the same final maturity and be amortized in the same manner as RUS loans made concurrently. Borrowers may elect to repay the loans either in substantially equal periodic installments covering interest and principal, or in periodic installments that include interest and level amortization of principal.
