
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart E - Load Forecasts
###### ยง 1710.203 Requirement to prepare a load forecast - distribution borrowers.

(a) A distribution borrower that is a member of a power supply borrower, with a total utility plant of $500 million or more must provide a current (prepared within the last 2 years) load forecast in support of any request for RUS financial assistance. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the approved load forecast of its power supply borrower.

(b) A distribution borrower that is a member of a power supply borrower which is itself a member of another power supply borrower that has a total utility plant of $500 million or more must provide a current (prepared within the last 2 years) load forecast in support of any request for RUS financial assistance. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the load forecast of its power supply borrower.

(c) A distribution borrower that is a member of a power supply borrower with a total utility plant of less than $500 million must provide a current (prepared within the last 2 years) load forecast that meets the requirements of this subpart in support of an application for any RUS loan or loan guarantee that exceeds $3 million or 5 percent of total utility plant, whichever is greater. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the load forecast of its power supply borrower.

(d) A distribution borrower with a total utility plant of less than $500 million and that is unaffiliated with a power supply borrower must provide a current (prepared within the last 2 years) load forecast that meets the requirements of this subpart in support of an application for any RUS loan or loan guarantee which exceeds $3 million or 5 percent of total utility plant, whichever is greater.

(e) A distribution borrower with a total utility plant of $500 million or more must provide a current (prepared within the last 2 years) load forecast in support of any request for RUS financing assistance. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the load forecast of its power supply borrower.
