
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart F - Construction Work Plans and Related Studies
###### ยง 1710.253 Engineering and cost studies - addition of generation capacity.

(a) The construction or purchase of additional generation capacity and associated transmission facilities by a power supply or distribution borrower, including the replacement of existing capacity, shall be supported by comprehensive project-specific engineering and cost studies as specified by RUS. The studies shall cover a period from the beginning of the project to at least 10 years after the start of commercial operation of the facilities.

(b) The studies must include comprehensive economic present-value analyses of the costs and revenues of the available self-generation, load management, energy conservation, and purchased-power options, including assessments of service reliability and financing requirements and risks. An analysis of purchased power options, including an analysis of available alternate sources of power shall be included. The analysis should include the terms and conditions of any requests for proposals and responses to such requests.

(c) Generally, studies of self-generation, load management, and energy conservation options shall include, as appropriate, analyses of:

(1) Capital and operating costs;

(2) Financing requirements and risks;

(3) System reliability;

(4) Alternative unit sizes;

(5) Alternative types of generation;

(6) Fuel alternatives;

(7) System stability;

(8) Load flows; and

(9) System dispatching.

(d) At the request of a borrower, RUS, in its sole discretion, may waive specific requirements of this section if such requirements imposed a substantial burden on the borrower and if such waiver will not significantly affect the accomplishment of the objectives of this subpart.
