
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart F - Construction Work Plans and Related Studies
###### ยง 1710.252 Construction work plans - power supply borrowers.

(a) All power supply borrowers must maintain a current CWP covering all new construction, improvements, replacements, and retirements of distribution and transmission plant, and improvements, replacements, and retirements of generation plant. Applications for RUS financial assistance for such facilities must be supported by a current, RUS-approved CWP. Construction of new generation capacity need not be included in a CWP but must be specified and supported by specific engineering and cost studies.

(b) Typically a power supply borrower's CWP shall cover a period of 4 years. While comprehensive CWP's are desired, if there are extenuating circumstances RUS may accept a single-purpose transmission or generation CWP in support of a loan application or budget reclassification. The construction period covered by a CWP in support of a loan application shall not be shorter than the loan period requested for financing of the facilities.

(c) Facilities, equipment, and other items included in a power supply borrower's CWP may include:

(1) Distribution and related facilities as set forth in ยง 1710.251(c);

(2) Transmission facilities required to deliver the power needed to serve the existing and planned new loads of the borrower and its members, and to improve service reliability, including tie lines for improved reliability of service, line conversions, improvements and replacements, new substations and substation improvements and replacements, and Systems Control and Data Acquisition equipment, including communications, dispatching and sectionalizing equipment, and load management equipment;

(3) The borrower's proportionate share of transmission facilities required to tie together the operating systems of supporting power pools and to connect with adjacent power suppliers;

(4) Improvements and replacements of generation facilities; and

(5) The cost of engineering, architectural, environmental and other studies and plans needed to support the construction of facilities, when such cost is capitalized as part of the cost of the facilities.

(d) A CWP for transmission facilities shall normally include studies of load flows, voltage regulation, and stability characteristics to demonstrate system performance and needs.
