
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart G - Long-Range Financial Forecasts
###### ยง 1710.302 Financial forecasts - power supply borrowers.

(a) The requirements of this section apply only to financial forecasts submitted by power supply borrowers in support of a loan from RUS. The financial forecast prepared by power supply borrowers shall demonstrate the effects that the addition of generation, transmission and any distribution facilities will have on the power supply borrower's sales, costs, and revenues, and on the cost of power to the member distribution systems.

(b) The financial forecast shall cover a period of 10 years. RUS may request projections for a longer period of time if RUS deems necessary.

(c) Financial forecasts prepared in support of loan applications to finance additional generation capacity shall include a power cost study as set forth in ยง 1710.303.

(d) In addition to the requirements set forth in ยง 1710.300, financial forecasts prepared by power supply borrowers shall:

(1) Identify all plans for generation and transmission capital additions and system operating expenses on a year-by-year basis, beginning with the present and running for 10 years, unless a longer period of time has been requested by RUS.

(2) Integrate projections of operation and maintenance expenses associated with existing plant with those of new proposed facilities to determine total costs of system operation as well as the costs of new generation and generation-related facilities;

(3) Provide an in-depth analysis of the regional markets for power if loan feasibility depends to any degree on a borrower's ability to sell surplus power while its system loads grow to meet the planned capacity of a proposed plant;

(4) If not previously submitted, furnish RUS with all material information on operating agreements, ownership agreements, fuel contracts and any other special agreements that affect annual cost projections, as may be required by RUS on a case by case basis; and

(5) Include sensitivity analysis if required by RUS pursuant to ยง 1710.300(d)(6).

(e) The projections shall be coordinated in advance with RUS so that agreement can be reached on major aspects of the economic studies. These include, but are not limited to, projections of future kW and kWh requirements, RE Act beneficiary loads, electricity prices, revenues from system and off-system power sales, the cost of prospective plant additions, interest and depreciation rates, fuel costs, cost escalation factors, the discount rate, and other factors.

(f) The projections, analysis, and supporting information must be included in a report that will provide RUS with the information needed to:

(1) Understand and compare various power supply plans;

(2) Determine that the facilities to be financed will perform satisfactorily; and

(3) Determine that the overall system is economically viable and the loan is financially feasible and secure.
