
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart I - Application Requirements and Procedures for Loans
###### ยง 1710.501 Loan application documents.
####### Submission of documents.

(d)(1) Generally, all information required by paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section is submitted to RUS in a single application. Borrowers may be eligible to submit their loan application via RUS' electronic application intake system instead of submitting hard copies of the loan applications. Please contact your respective General Field Representative or RUS Headquarters to determine if you are eligible to utilize the electronic system.

(2) To facilitate loan review, RUS urges borrowers to ensure that their applications contain all of the information required by this section before submitting the application to RUS. Borrowers may consult with RUS field representatives and headquarters staff as necessary for assistance in preparing loan applications.

(3) RUS may, in its discretion, return an application to the borrower if the application is not materially complete to the satisfaction of RUS within 10 months of receipt of any of the items listed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. RUS will generally advise the borrower in writing at least 2 months prior to returning the application as to the elements of the application that are not complete.

(4) If an application is returned, an application for the same loan purposes will be accepted by RUS if satisfactory evidence is provided that all of the information required by this section will be submitted to RUS within a reasonable time. An application for loan purposes included in an application previously returned to the borrower will be treated as an entirely new application.
