
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1710 - GENERAL AND PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO ELECTRIC LOANS AND GUARANTEES
##### Subpart J - Terms of Loans Common to Electric Loans and Guarantees
###### ยง 1710.602 Fund advance period.
####### e.g.,

(b) The Administrator may agree to an extension of the fund advance period for loans if the borrower demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that the loan funds continue to be needed for approved loan purposes (facilities included in a RUS approved construction work plan). Policies for extension of the fund advance period following certain mergers, consolidations, and transfers of systems substantially in their entirety are set forth in 7 CFR 1717.156.

(1) To apply for an extension, the borrower must make a request to RUS prior to the last date for advance as noted in the borrower's loan documents and provide, the following:

(i) A certified copy of a board resolution requesting an extension of the Government's obligation to advance loan funds;

(ii) Evidence that the unadvanced loan funds continue to be needed for approved loan purposes; and

(iii) Notice of the estimated date for completion of construction.

(2) If the Administrator approves a request for an extension, RUS will notify the borrower in writing of the extension and the terms and conditions thereof. An extension will be effective only if it is requested in writing prior to the last date for advance as provided in the borrower's loan documents.

(3) Any request received after the last date for advance shall be rejected.

(c) RUS will rescind the balance of any loan funds not advanced to a borrower as of the final date approved for advancing funds.
