
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1714 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR INSURED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 1714.6 Interest rate term.
####### Municipal rate loans.

(a)Selection of interest rate terms shall be made by the borrower for each advance of funds. The minimum interest rate term shall be one year. RUS will send the borrower written confirmation of each rollover maturity date and the applicable interest rate.

(1) The initial interest rate term will begin on the date of the advance. All rollover interest rate terms will begin on the first day of a month, and except for the last interest rate term to final maturity, shall end on the last day of a month. All terms except for the initial interest rate term on an advance, and the last term to final maturity shall be in yearly increments.

(2) The following limits apply to the number of advances of funds that may be made to the borrower on any municipal rate loan:

(i) If the loan period is 2 years or less, not more than 6 advances;

(ii) If the loan period is more than 2 years, not more than 8 advances.

(3) For the initial interest rate term of an advance, a letter from an authorized official of the borrower indicating the selection of the term shall accompany the request for the advance.

(4) At the end of any interest rate term, the borrower shall pay all accrued interest and principal balance then due, and either prepay the remaining principal of the advance at face value, or roll over the remaining principal for a new term, provided that no interest rate term may end later than the date of the final maturity.

(i) If the borrower elects to prepay all or part of the remaining principal of the advance at face value, it must notify the Director of the appropriate Regional Division or the Power Supply Division in writing not later than 20 days before the rollover maturity date.

(ii) If the borrower wishes to elect a new interest rate term that is different from the term previously selected, it must notify RUS in writing of the new term not later than 20 days before the end of the current term. The election of the new term shall be addressed to the Director, Financial Operations Division, Rural Utilities Service, Washington, DC 20250-1500.

(iii) If the borrower fails to notify RUS within the timeframes set out in this paragraph of its intention to prepay or elect a different interest rate term, RUS will automatically roll over the remaining principal for the shorter of, and at the interest rate applicable to:

(A) A period equal in length to the term that is expiring; or

(B) The remaining period to final maturity.
