
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1714 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR INSURED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 1714.7 Interest rate cap.
####### Consumer income test.

(2)The borrower meets this test if either the average per capita income of the residents receiving electric service from the borrower is less than the average per capita income of residents of the state in which the borrower provides service or the median household income of the households receiving electric service from the borrower is less than the median household income of the households in the state.

(i) To qualify under the consumer income test, the borrower must include in its loan application information about the location of its residential consumers. The borrower must provide to RUS, based on the most recent data available at the time of loan application, either the number of consumers in each county it serves or the number of consumers in each census tract it serves. Using 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data, RUS will compare, on a weighted average basis, the average per capita and median household income of the counties or census tracts served by the borrower with state figures.

(ii) If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the economic conditions of the borrower's consumers, the reasons will be documented and the borrower may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such economic conditions. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State, or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source. The Administrator has the sole discretion to determine whether such data submitted by the borrower is sufficient to determine whether the borrower qualifies under the consumer income test.
