
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart D - Mergers and Consolidations of Electric Borrowers
###### ยง 1717.152 Required documentation for all mergers.

In order for RUS to advance funds, send bills, and otherwise conduct business with a successor, the documents listed in this section must be submitted to RUS regardless of the need for RUS approval of the merger. Borrowers are responsible for ensuring that these documents are received by RUS in timely fashion. In cases of mergers that require RUS approval, or cases where borrowers must submit requests for transitional assistance, the documents listed in this section may be combined with the documents required by ยง 1717.157 and/or ยง 1717.160 where appropriate.

(a) Prior to the effective date, borrowers must submit:

(1) A transmittal letter on corporate letterhead signed by the manager of each active borrower that is a party to the proposed merger indicating the borrower's intention to merge and tentative timeframes, including the proposed effective date;

(2) An original certified board resolution from each party to the proposed merger affirming the board's support of the merger;

(3) All documents necessary to evidence the merger pursuant to applicable law. Examples include plan of merger, articles of merger, amended articles of incorporation, bylaws, and notices and filings required by law. These documents may be copies of documents filed elsewhere, unless otherwise specified by RUS; and

(4) A letter addressed to the Administrator from the counsel of at least one of the active borrowers briefly describing the merger and indicating the relevant statutes under which the merger will be consummated.

(b) On or after the effective date, borrowers must submit:

(1) An opinion of counsel from the successor addressing, among other things, any pending litigation, proper authorization and consummation of the merger, proper filing and perfection of RUS' security interest, and all approvals required by law. RUS will provide the form of the opinion of counsel to the successor;

(2) A letter signed by the manager of the successor advising RUS of the effective date of the merger; the corporate name, address, and phone number; the names of the officers of the successor; and the taxpayer identification number; and

(3) Evidence of proper filing and perfection of RUS' security interest, as instructed by RUS, and an executed loan contract.
