
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart D - Mergers and Consolidations of Electric Borrowers
###### ยง 1717.154 Transitional assistance in connection with new loans.
####### Supplemental financing.

(b)(1) RUS generally requires that an applicant for a municipal rate loan obtain a portion of its debt financing from a supplemental source without an RUS guarantee. See 7 CFR 1710.110. RUS will, at the borrower's request, waive the requirement to obtain supplemental financing for the first RUS loan approved after the effective date if that first loan is a municipal rate loan whose loan period does not exceed 2 years, and the loan is approved by RUS not later than 5 years after the effective date. For any subsequent loans approved during these 5 years, or if the borrower requests a loan period longer than 2 years, RUS may, subject to the availability of loan funds, waive or reduce the amount of supplemental financing required. In reviewing requests to reduce or waive supplemental financing on subsequent loans or on loans with a loan period longer than 2 years, RUS will consider the differences in interest rates between RUS and supplemental loans and the impacts of this difference on the borrower's projected cash flows and its electric rates and rate disparity. If significant differences would result, the waiver will be granted.

(2) Waiver of supplemental financing may be available if:
