
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart D - Mergers and Consolidations of Electric Borrowers
###### § 1717.157 Requests for transitional assistance.

(a) If the merger requires RUS approval, the borrower should, where possible, indicate that it desires transitional assistance at the time it requests approval of the merger. The formal request for transitional assistance must be received by RUS as specified in §§ 1717.155 and 171.156. Documents listed in this section may be combined with the documents required by §§ 1717.152 and/or 1717.160 where appropriate. If the request for transitional assistance is submitted at the same time as a loan application, documents listed in this section may be combined with the loan application documents where appropriate. See 7 CFR part 1710, subpart I. A request for transitional assistance must include:

(1) Transmittal letter(s) formally listing the types of transitional assistance requested. If the request is submitted before the effective date, a transmittal letter must be signed by the manager of each party to the transaction. If the request is submitted on or after the effective date, a transmittal letter must be signed by the manager of the successor. Transmittal letter(s) must be signed originals on corporate letterhead stationery;

(2) Board resolution(s). If the request is submitted before the effective date, a separate board resolution must be submitted from each entity involved in the merger. If the request is submitted on or after the effective date, a board resolution from the successor must be submitted. Each board resolution must be a certified original;

(3) A merger plan, financial forecasts, and any available studies such as net present value analyses showing the anticipated costs and benefits of the merger and likely timeframes for the merger. The merger plan must clearly identify those benefits that cannot be achieved without a merger, and those benefits that can be achieved through other means;

(4) If the transitional assistance requires RUS approval, the type and extent of the mitigation that the transitional assistance is expected to provide; and

(5) Other information that may be relevant.

(b) Borrowers are responsible for ensuring that requests for transitional assistance are complete and sound in form and substance when they are submitted to RUS. After submitting a request, borrowers shall promptly notify RUS of any changes or events that materially affect the request or any information in the request.

(c) In considering whether to approve requests for transitional assistance, RUS will evaluate the costs and benefits of the merger; the type and extent of the likely transitional stress; whether the transitional assistance requested is likely to materially mitigate such stress; and the likely impacts on electric rates and on the security of RUS loans. Review factors applicable to each type of transitional assistance are set forth in §§ 1717.154-1717.156.
