
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart D - Mergers and Consolidations of Electric Borrowers
###### ยง 1717.155 Transitional assistance affecting new and preexisting loans.
####### Coverage ratios.

(b)Required levels for coverage ratios are set forth in 7 CFR 1710.114 and in the loan documents. RUS may approve a plan, on a case by case basis, that provides for a phase-in period for these coverage ratios of up to 5 years from the effective date. Under such a plan the successor would be permitted to project and achieve lower levels for one or more of these coverage ratios during the phase-in period.

(1) A phase-in plan for coverage ratios must provide a pro forma level for each ratio during each year of the phase-in period and be supported by a financial forecast covering a period of not less than 10 years from the effective date of the merger. The plan must demonstrate that a minimum TIER level of 1.00 will be achieved in each year, that trends will be generally favorable, that the borrower will achieve the levels required in its loan documents and RUS regulations by the end of the phase-in period, and that these levels will be maintained in subsequent years.

(2) In reviewing phase-in plans for coverage ratios, RUS will review rates, rate disparity, and likely mitigating effects of the proposed phase-in plan.

(3) The borrower is responsible for obtaining approvals of supplemental lenders.

(4) Upon RUS approval of a phase-in plan, the levels in that plan will be substituted for the levels required in the borrower's preexisting loan documents and will be incorporated in any new loan or security documents.

(5) A phase in plan for coverage ratios may be available if:
