
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart D - Mergers and Consolidations of Electric Borrowers
###### ยง 1717.161 Application process.

(a) Borrowers are responsible for ensuring that their applications for RUS approval of a merger are complete and sound in form and substance when they are submitted to RUS. After submitting an application, borrowers shall promptly notify RUS of any changes or events that materially affect the application or any information in the application.

(b) In reviewing borrower requests for approval of mergers, RUS will consider the likely effects of the action on the ability of the successor to provide reliable electric service at reasonable cost to RE Act beneficiaries and on the security of outstanding RUS loans. Among the factors RUS will consider are whether the proposed merger is likely to:

(1) Contribute to greater operating efficiency and financial soundness;

(2) Mitigate high electric rates and or rate disparity;

(3) Help borrowers to diversify their loads or otherwise hedge risks;

(4) Have beneficial effects on rural economic development in the community served by the borrower, such as diversifying the economic base or alleviating unemployment; and

(5) Provide other benefits consistent with the purposes of the RE Act.

(c) RUS will not approve a merger if, in the sole judgment of the Administrator, such action is likely to have an adverse effect on the credit quality of outstanding loans made or guaranteed by the Government. RUS will thoroughly review each request for approval of such action, including review of the feasibility and security of outstanding Government loans according to the standards in 7 CFR 1710.112 and 1710.113, respectively, and in other RUS regulations.

(d) RUS will keep the borrowers apprised of the progress of their applications.
