
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart M - Operational Controls
###### ยง 1717.600 General.
####### General.

(a)The loan contract and mortgage between the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) and electric borrowers imposes certain restrictions and controls on the borrowers and gives RUS (and other co-mortgagees in the case of the mortgage) the right to approve or disapprove certain actions contemplated by the borrowers. Certain of these controls and approval rights are referred to informally as "operational controls" because they pertain to decisions or actions with respect to the operation of the borrowers' electric systems. The approval authority granted to RUS by the loan contract or mortgage regarding each decision or action subject to controls is often stated in broad, unlimited terms. This subpart lists the main operational controls affecting borrowers and establishes for each area of control the circumstances under which RUS approval of a decision or action by a borrower is either required or not required. In some cases, only the general principles or general circumstances pertaining to RUS approval or control are presented in this subpart, while the details regarding the circumstances and requirements of RUS approval or control are set forth in other RUS regulations. Since this subpart addresses only the main operational controls, failure to address a control or approval right in this subpart in no way invalidates such controls or rights established by the loan contract, mortgage, other agreements between a borrower and RUS, and RUS regulations.
