
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart N - Investments, Loans, and Guarantees by Electric Borrowers
###### ยง 1717.658 Records, reports and audits.

(a) Every borrower shall maintain accurate records concerning all investments, loans and guarantees made by it. Such records shall be kept in a manner that will enable RUS to readily determine:

(1) The nature and source of all income, expenses and losses generated from the borrower's loans, guarantees and investments;

(2) The location, identity and lien priority of any loan collateral resulting from activities permitted by this subpart; and

(3) The effects, if any, which such activities may have on the feasibility of loans made, guaranteed or lien accommodated by RUS.

(b) In determining the aggregate amount of investments, loans and guarantees made by a borrower, the borrower shall use the recorded value of each investment, loan or guarantee as reflected on its books and records for the next preceding end-of-month, except for the end-of-year report which shall be based on December 31 information. Every borrower shall also report annually to RUS, in the manner and on the form specified by the Administrator, the current status of each investment, outstanding loan and outstanding guarantee which it has made pursuant to this subpart.

(c) The records of borrowers shall be subject to the auditing procedures prescribed in part 1773 of this chapter. RUS reserves the right to review the financial records of any subsidiaries of the borrower to determine if the borrower is in compliance with this subpart, and to ascertain if the debts, guarantees (as defined in this subpart), or other obligations of the subsidiaries could adversely affect the ability of the borrower to repay its debts to the Government.

(d) RUS will monitor borrower compliance with this subpart based primarily on the annual financial and statistical report submitted by the borrower to RUS and the annual auditor's report on the borrower's operations. However, RUS may inspect the borrower's records at any time during the year to determine borrower compliance. If a borrower's most recent annual financial and statistical report shows the aggregate of the borrower's investments, loans and guarantees to be below the 15 percent level, that in no way relieves the borrower of its obligation to comply with its RUS mortgage, RUS loan contract, and this subpart with respect to Administrator approval of any additional investment, loan or guarantee that would cause the aggregate to exceed the 15 percent level.
