
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart R - Lien Accommodations and Subordinations for 100 Percent Private Financing
###### ยง 1717.859 Application process and timeframes.
####### General.

(a)(1) Borrowers are responsible for ensuring that their applications for a lien accommodation or subordination are complete and sound as to substance and form before they are submitted to RUS. RUS will not accept any application that, on its face, is incomplete or inadequate as to the substantive information required by this subpart. RUS will notify borrowers in writing when their applications are complete and in form and substance satisfactory to RUS. A copy of all notifications of borrowers cited in this section will also be sent to the private lender.

(2) It is recommended that borrowers consult with RUS staff before submitting their applications to determine whether they will likely qualify for advance approval or normal review, and to obtain answers to any questions about the information and documents required for the application.

(3) A borrower shall, after submitting an application, promptly notify RUS of any changes that materially affect the information contained in its application.

(4) After submitting an application and having been notified by RUS of additional information and documents and other changes needed to complete the application, if the required information and documents are not supplied to RUS within 30 calendar days of the borrower's receipt of the notice, RUS may return the application to the borrower. The borrower may resubmit the application when the required additional information and documents are available.
