
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart R - Lien Accommodations and Subordinations for 100 Percent Private Financing
###### ยง 1717.859 Application process and timeframes.
####### Normal review-100 percent private financing of distribution, transmission, and/or generation facilities,Distribution borrowers.

(c)-(1)(i) Applications from distribution borrowers for a lien accommodation or subordination for 100 percent private financing of distribution, transmission, and/or generation facilities (including other eligible electric utility purposes) that do not meet the criteria for advance approval, are also submitted to the GFR. Procedures at this stage are the same as in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(ii) If no additional or amended information is needed for RUS to complete its review of the application once it is received in the Washington office, RUS will, within 90 calendar days of receiving the application in the Washington office, send written notice to the borrower either approving the request, disapproving the request, or explaining why a decision cannot be made at that time and giving the estimated date when a decision is expected.

(iii) If additional or amended information is needed after the application is received in the Washington Office, RUS will so notify the borrower in writing within 15 calendar days of receiving the application in the Washington Office. If RUS subsequently becomes aware of other deficiencies in the application, additional written notice will be sent to the borrower. Within 90 calendar days of receiving all of the information required by RUS to complete its review, RUS will act on the application as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(iv) If a new mortgage or mortgage amendment is required, the procedures and timeframes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section will apply.
