
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart R - Lien Accommodations and Subordinations for 100 Percent Private Financing
###### ยง 1717.859 Application process and timeframes.
####### Rural development investments.

(e)(1) Applications for a lien subordination for rural development investments are submitted by distribution borrowers to the GFR and by power supply borrowers to the RUS Power Supply Division, or its successor, in Washington, DC.

(2) The GFR will work with the borrower to ensure that all components of the application are assembled. Once the application is satisfactory to the GFR, it will be sent promptly to the Washington Office for further review and action. After the application is received in the Washington Office, if additional or amended information is needed for RUS to complete its review, RUS will so notify the borrower in writing within 15 calendar days of receiving the application.

(3) Applications from power supply borrowers containing the information and documents required by ยง 1717.858(c) will be reviewed in the Washington office and the borrower given written notice within 30 calendar days of receiving the application of any deficiencies as to completeness and acceptable form and substance. Additional written notices may be sent to the borrower if RUS subsequently becomes aware of other deficiencies in the borrower's application.

(4) Within 60 calendar days of receiving in the Washington office all of the required information and documents, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, RUS will give written notice to the borrower either approving the request, disapproving the request, or explaining why a decision cannot be made at that time and giving the estimated date when a decision is expected.

(5) If a new mortgage or mortgage amendment is required, these documents will be reviewed and executed pursuant to the procedures and timeframes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
