
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart R - Lien Accommodations and Subordinations for 100 Percent Private Financing
###### ยง 1717.859 Application process and timeframes.
####### Advance approval-100 percent private financing of distribution, subtransmission, and headquarters facilities.

(b)(1) Applications that qualify under ยง 1717.854 for advance approval of a lien accommodation or subordination for 100 percent private financing of distribution, subtransmission, and headquarters facilities are submitted to the general field representative (GFR). The GFR will work with the borrower to ensure that all components of the application are assembled. Once the application is satisfactory to the GFR, it will be sent promptly to the Washington office for further review and action. If a new mortgage or mortgage amendment is required, a draft of these documents must be included in the application, unless the borrower has been notified that RUS wishes to prepare the documents itself.

(2) If no additional or amended information is needed for RUS to complete its review of the application once it is received in the Washington Office, RUS will, within 45 calendar days of receiving the application in the Washington Office, either:

(i) Approve the lien accommodation or subordination if the borrower has demonstrated satisfactorily to RUS that all requirements of this subpart applicable to advance approval have been met, and send written notice to the borrower. RUS's approval, in this case and all other cases, will be conditioned upon execution and delivery by the borrower of a satisfactory security instrument, if required, and such additional information, documents, and opinions of counsel as RUS may require;

(ii) If all requirements have not been met, so notify the borrower in writing. The application will be returned to the borrower unless the borrower requests that it be reconsidered under the requirements and procedures for normal review set forth in paragraph (c) of this section and in ยง 1717.856; or

(iii) Send written notice to the borrower explaining why a decision cannot be made at that time and giving the estimated date when a decision is expected.

(3) If additional or amended information is needed after the application is received in the Washington Office, RUS will so notify the borrower in writing within 15 calendar days of receiving the application in the Washington Office. If RUS subsequently becomes aware of other deficiencies in the application, additional written notice will be sent to the borrower. Within 30 calendar days of receiving all of the information required by RUS to complete its review, RUS will act on the application as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

(4) If a new mortgage or mortgage amendment is required, within 30 days of receiving such documents satisfactory to RUS, including required execution counterparts, RUS will execute the documents and send them to the borrower, along with instructions pertaining to recording of the mortgage, an opinion of borrower's counsel, and other matters. RUS will promptly notify the borrower upon receiving satisfactory evidence that the borrower has complied with said instructions.
