
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart S - Lien Accommodations for Supplemental Financing Required by 7 CFR 1710.110
###### ยง 1717.901 Early approval.
####### Timeframe for RUS action.

(b)(1) RUS will either approve or disapprove the lien accommodation within 90 days of receiving the borrower's request for early approval and the complete application for the concurrent RUS loan and required supplemental financing, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, or notify the borrower in writing of the estimated date when a decision is expected. If an environmental assessment or an Environmental Impact Statement is required, additional time beyond the 90 days may be required to prepare these documents. RUS's approval of the lien accommodation will be conditioned upon execution and delivery by the borrower of a satisfactory security instrument, if required, and such additional information, documents, and opinions of counsel as RUS may require.

(2) If a mortgage or mortgage amendment is required, RUS will consult with the other mortgagees as to who will prepare the documents. Within 30 days of obtaining the documents satisfactory to RUS, including required execution counterparts, RUS will execute the documents and send them to the borrower, along with instructions pertaining to recording of the mortgage, an opinion of borrower's counsel, and other matters. RUS will promptly notify the borrower upon receiving satisfactory evidence that the borrower has complied with said instructions.
