
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1717 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED ELECTRIC LOANS
##### Subpart Y - Settlement of Debt
###### ยง 1717.1202 General policy.

(a) It is the policy of the Administrator that, wherever possible, all debt owed to the government, including but not limited to principal and interest, shall be collected in full in accordance with the terms of the borrower's loan documents.

(b) Nothing in this subpart by itself modifies, reduces, waives, or eliminates any obligation of a borrower under its loan documents. Any such modifications regarding the debt owed by a borrower may be granted under the authority of the Administrator only by means of the explicit written approval of the Administrator in each case.

(c) The Administrator's authority to settle debts and claims will apply to cases where a borrower is unable to pay its debts and claims in accordance with their terms, as further defined in ยง 1717.1204(b)(1), and where settlement will maximize, on a present value basis, the recovery of debts and claims owed to the government.

(d) In structuring settlements and determining the capability of the borrower to repay debt and the amount of debt recovery that is possible, the Administrator will consider, among other factors, the RE Act, the National Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-486, 106 Stat. 2776), the policies and regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, state legislative and regulatory actions, and other market and nonmarket forces as to their effects on competition in the electric utility industry and on rural electric systems in particular. Other factors the Administrator will consider are set forth in more detail in ยง 1717.1204.
