
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart K - Production or Disclosure of Official Information in Legal Proceedings
##### General Information
###### ยง 1.211 Definitions that apply to this subpart.

For the purpose of this subpart:

(a) The term "demand" means any effort or attempt to obtain, for use in a legal proceeding, official information or testimony relating to official information, including any request, order, subpoena, or other command, as well as any informal or other attempt (by any method) to obtain official information, or testimony relating to official information, by an attorney, investigator, or others.

(b) The term "Department" means the United States Department of Agriculture, its constituent agencies, and Department officials authorized to decide whether to allow disclosures of official information or testimony relating to official information in response to demands.

(c) The term "appropriate Department official" means the head of a Department agency or office.

(d) The term "employee" means all employees or officers of the Department, including individuals who are or have been appointed by the Department, or who are or have been subject to the Department's supervision, jurisdiction, or control, including individuals hired through contractual agreements by or on behalf of the Department, or performing services under such agreements for the Department, such as consultants, contractors, subcontractors, and their employees or other personnel. Also included in the definition are former Department employees where the demand seeks testimony relating to official information acquired while the person was an employee of the Department.

(e) The term "legal proceeding" means all pretrial, trial, and post-trial stages of all existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before courts, commissions, boards, grand juries, or other tribunals. This phrase includes all phases of discovery as well as formal or informal requests by attorneys or others involved in legal proceedings.

(f) The term "Office of the General Counsel" means the Office of the General Counsel of the Department.

(g) The term "official information" means all information of any kind, however stored, that is in the custody and control of the Department or relates to information in the custody and control of the Department, or information or knowledge acquired by a Department employee as part of the employee's official duties or because of the employee's official status with the Department.

(h) The term "testimony" means any written or oral statement by an employee, including personal appearances in court or at depositions, interviews, or informal inquiries in person or by telephone, responses to written interrogatories or other written statements such as reports, declarations, or affidavits, or any response involving more than the de-livery of documents.

(i) The term "United States" means the Federal Government, its departments, and its agencies.
