
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.5 Application process and required information.
####### General.

(a)The following are general provisions for the application process:

(1) The RUS, from time to time and subject to appropriations, will notify the public specifying funding priorities, funding availability, and deadlines.

(2) Complete applications for loans to Eligible entities will be processed pursuant to the provisions in this Part and on a first-come-first served basis until the funding appropriated to the program is fully obligated.

(3) The submittal of a Letter of Intent is required to participate in the program. The letters of intent will be queued as they are received. If it advances program and policy goals, RUS may consider loan applications from Eligible entities that have submitted Letters of Intent under prior funding announcements but that were not invited to proceed with a loan application.

(4) Upon review of the Letter of Intent, RUS may issue an Invitation to proceed with a loan application. RUS reserves the right to notify the Applicant in the queue that the amount of financing RUS will consider for a loan is below the level sought in the Letter of Intent. In making this consideration, RUS will consider overall RUS program objectives or budgetary constraints. An Invitation to proceed with the loan application issued by RUS is not to be deemed as an offer by RUS.

(5) A RESP applicant will have up to ninety (90) days to complete the documentation for a complete loan application. The ninety (90) day timeframe will begin on the date the RESP applicant receives RUS' Invitation to proceed. If the deadline to submit the completed loan application falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the application is due the next business day.

(6) The Administrator may grant an extension of time to complete the documentation required for an application if, in the Administrator's sole judgment, the interest of the program would be advanced by the extension.

(7) RUS may limit the number of applications it will consider in the same funding cycle from the same Applicant or combine applications from a single entity.
