
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.5 Application process and required information.
####### Application process.

(b)The application process consists of the following two steps:

(1) An Applicant seeking financing must submit a Letter of Intent to be considered under this Part.

(2) The Letter of Intent must include the following information:

(i) Legal name and status of the entity seeking financing under this Part and its address and principal place of business.

(ii) The Applicant's tax identification number, SAM Managed Identifier (SAMMI), Dun and Bradstreet (DUNS) number, and such similar information as it may be subsequently amended or required for federal funding.

(iii) A statement indicating if the Applicant is a current or a former RUS borrower.

(iv) A description of the service territory.

(v) Value of the net assets, including any information as to whether the Applicant has been placed in receivership, liquidation, or under a workout agreement or whether the Applicant has declared bankruptcy or has had a decree or order issued for relief in any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar action over the last 10 years. The Applicant must submit a copy of its balance sheet and income statements for the last 3 years. If applicable, the Applicant must provide the balance sheet and income statements for the last 3 years of the entity or entities providing equity or security for the RESP loan together with an explanation of the legal relationship among the entities.

(vi) Identification of a point of contact and provide contact information.

(vii) Description of the program or projects expected to be financed with the RESP loans funds. This description must not exceed five (5) pages (size 8.5 x 11). RUS reserves the right not to consider Letters of Intent where the project description exceeds five (5) pages. The description should include the following:

(A) Description of the service to be provided to Qualified consumers.

(B) Identity of the staff or contractors that will be implementing the EE Program and their credentials.

(C) A summarized version of the expected IWP addressing the following elements:
