
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1719.3 Policy and Federal Register Notices.

(a) Eligible entities (see ยง 1719.2 and ยง 1719.4) are permitted to participate in the Rural Energy Saving Program on the condition that loan funds will be used to make loans to Qualified consumers for the purpose of implementing EE measures.

(b) The Agency will issue annualnotices each year specifying the amount of funds available under this Part. Notices may also include program priorities and loan application periods. The Administrator in setting funding priorities and application periods may consider the amount of available funds, the nature and amount of unfunded loan applications, prior commitments, Agency resources, Agency priorities and policy goals, and any other pertinent information.

(c) In making loans under this Part, the Administrator may consider a proposed EE Program's effect on existing RUS borrowers and the integrity of the RUS portfolio and deny or limit approval of a specific RESP loan application on that basis if it is determined that such requested loan would have a negative effect on existing RUS or RESP borrowers or the RUS loan portfolio.

(d) The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal government. Exercise of this authority cannot be in conflict with applicable law.

(e) With regard to the rules of grammatical construction, unless the context otherwise indicates, "includes" and "including" are not limiting, and "or" is not exclusive.
