
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.5 Application process and required information.
####### 4

() A list of eligible EE measures expected to be implemented. An Applicant with an existing EE Program in place by April 8, 2014, may describe the EE measures, its IWP, and its M&V plan for the existing program in its Letter of Intent to expedite the application process.

(viii) The Applicant must provide evidence of its key performance indicators for the 5 complete years prior to the submission of the loan application if the total loan amount exceeds $5 million.

(3) Instructions on how to submit the loan application package will be included in the RUS Invitation to proceed to the RESP applicant. RUS will timely schedule an initial conference call with the RESP applicant to discuss the elements of the loan application.

(i) Content of the application package includes the following:

(A) A signed cover letter from the RESP applicant's General Manager or highest-ranking officer requesting RESP loan funds to make loans to Qualified consumers for the purpose of implementing EE measures.

(B) A signed copy of the board resolution or applicable authorizing document approving and establishing the EE Program and authorizing the Eligible entity to take a RESP loan.

(C) The RESP applicant must provide the Applicant's articles of incorporation or other applicable organizational documents currently in effect, as filed with the appropriate state office, setting forth the RESP applicant's corporate purpose; and the RESP Applicant must also provide the bylaws or other applicable governing documents currently in effect, as adopted by the RESP applicant's applicable governing body. RESP applicants that are active RUS borrowers may comply with this requirement by notifying RUS in writing that there are no material changes to the documents already on file with RUS.

(D) A copy of the duly executed Multi-Tier Action Environmental Compliance Agreement (Multi-Tier Agreement) consistent with Rural Development's Environmental Policies and Procedures, 7 CFR part 1970 or its successor regulation. A copy of the Multi-tier Agreement will be provided to the RESP applicant with the Invitation to proceed and the requirements of ยง 1970.55 will be discussed with the RESP applicant in the initial conference call. Activities and investments listed in the IWP must match the activities and investments identified in the Multi-tier Agreement executed between RUS and the RESP applicant. Additional RUS environmental review will be required if the RESP applicant pursues additional or different activities other than the ones listed in the Multi-tier Agreement. If funded, a RESP borrower would be responsible for performing and documenting environmental reviews consistent with ยง 1970.55.

(E) A financial forecast approved by the applicable governing body of the RESP applicant in support of its loan application. The financial forecast must cover a period of at least 10 years and must demonstrate that the RESP applicant's operation is economically viable and that the proposed loan is financially feasible. RUS may request additional information or projections for a longer period, if RUS deems such supplemental data necessary based on the financial structure of the RESP Applicant or necessary to make a determination regarding loan feasibility. A RESP applicant must, after submitting a loan application, promptly notify RUS of any changes in its circumstances that materially affect the information contained in the loan application. The financial forecast and related projections submitted in support of a loan application must include:
