
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.8 Loan provisions.
####### Loans to Qualified Consumers.

(e)RUS borrowers loans to Qualified Consumers will be subject to the following terms and for the purposes listed below.

(1) RESP borrower's loans to its Qualified consumers must be for the purpose of implementing EE measures.

(2) Loans to Qualified consumers may bear interest not to exceed 5 percent.

(3) Each loan made by the RESP borrower to a Qualified consumer may not exceed a term of 10 years.

(4) The EE measures financed with a RESP loan proceeds must be for the purpose of decreasing energy (not just electricity) usage or costs of the Qualified consumer by an amount that ensures, to the maximum extent practicable, that a loan term of not more than 10 years will not pose an undue financial burden on the Qualified consumer.

(5) RESP loan proceeds must not be used to fund purchases of, or modifications to, personal property unless the personal property is or becomes attached to real property (including a manufactured home) as a fixture.

(6) Loans made to Qualified consumers must be repaid through charges added to the recurring service bill for the property for, or, at which the EE measures have been or will be implemented. This requirement does not prohibit the voluntary prepayment of the loan by the owner of the property; or the use of any additional repayment mechanisms that are demonstrated to have appropriate risk mitigation measures, as determined by the RESP borrower, or required if the Qualified consumer is no longer a customer of the RESP Borrower.

(7) Loans made by a RESP borrower to a Qualified consumer using RESP loan funds must require an Energy audit by the RESP borrower to determine the impact of the proposed EE measures on the energy costs and consumption of the Qualified consumer. For purposes of this section, an energy audit performed by a contractor or agent of the RESP borrower would be deemed as performed by the RESP borrower.

(8) The RESP borrower must comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations in making loans to Qualified consumers. Approval by RUS and its employees of a loan under this section does not constitute a Government endorsement. The Government and its employees assume no legal liability for the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any information, product, service, or process funded directly or indirectly with financial assistance provided under RESP. Nothing in the loan documents between RUS and the RESP borrower will confer upon any other person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever. Neither the Government nor its employees make any warranty, express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, with respect to any information, product, service, or process available from a RESP borrower or its agents.
