
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.8 Loan provisions.
####### Loan advances.

(d)RUS will disburse loan funds to the RESP borrower in accordance with the terms and conditions of the executed loan documents.

(1) Excluding the Special Advance, all loan funds will be disbursed either as an advance in anticipation of loans to be made by the RESP borrower to the Qualified consumers; or as a reimbursement for eligible program costs, including loans already made to Qualified consumers. No disbursements will be made until the RESP borrower has complied with the loan conditions set forth in the loan documents. Any disbursement of loan funds to a RESP borrower within a 12-month consecutive period must not exceed 50 percent of the approved loan amount.

(i) The RESP borrower must provide to the Qualified consumers all RESP loan funds that the RESP borrower receives within one year of receiving them from RUS. If the RESP borrower does not re-lend the RESP loan funds within one year, the unused RESP loan funds, and any interest earned on those RESP loan funds, must be returned to the Government and will be applied to the RESP borrower's debt.

(ii) The RESP borrower will not be eligible to receive additional RESP loan funds from RUS until providing evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, that RESP loan funds from a previous advance have been fully relent to Qualified consumers or returned to the Government.

(iii) RUS will disburse the RESP loan funds as an advance in anticipation of loans to be made by the RESP borrower to the Qualified consumers only if the RESP borrower has established written procedures that will minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of RESP loan funds from RUS to the RESP borrower and its corresponding disbursement to the Qualified consumer.

(iv) A RESP borrower's request for an advance in anticipation of loans to Qualified consumers should be limited to the minimum amounts needed and timed to be in accordance with the actual immediate cash needs to carry out the EE Program.

(2) The RESP borrower may elect to request a Special advance to defray the appropriate start-up costs of establishing a new EE Program or modify an existing EE Program.

(i) The Special advance must not exceed 4 percent of the total approved loan amount.

(ii) Repayment of the Special advance must be required during the 10-year period beginning on the date on which the Special advance is made.

(iii) The RESP borrower may elect to defer the repayment of the Special advance to the end of the 10-year period.

(iv) All Special advances must be made during the first 10-years of the term of the loan.

(v) All amounts advanced on the loan by RUS to the RESP borrower, including the Special advance, must be paid prior to the final maturity which must not exceed 20 years.

(vi) The Special advance maximum amount must be requested by the Borrower and approved by RUS prior to loan closing.
