
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.8 Loan provisions.
####### Loan term and repayment. RUS loans to an eligible borrow will be subject to the following terms and repayment conditions set forth in this section.

(f)

(1) The RESP loans under this section will bear no interest (0 percent) and have a maturity not exceeding 20 years.

(2) The amortization schedule must be based on a loan term that does not exceed 20 years from the date on which the loan is closed.

(3) Except for the Special advance, the repayment of each advance must be amortized for a period not to exceed 10 years.

(4) The Administrator may include additional conditions on the repayment schedule if, in his or her sole discretion, it is in the best interest of the Government.

(5) The RESP borrower is responsible for fully repaying the RESP loan to RUS according to the loan documents regardless of repayment by its Qualified consumers.

(6) The RESP borrower may use the revenues from the interest charged to the Qualified consumer to establish a loan loss reserve, and to offset personnel and EE Program costs.

(7) Loans under this Section will not bear interest (0 percent), however, indebtedness not paid when due will be subject to interest, penalties, administrative costs and late fees as provided in the loan documents.
