
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.8 Loan provisions.
####### Equity contributions.

(c)To be eligible for a RESP loan, a newly created Eligible entity or an entity primarily owned or controlled by one (1) or more entities as described in ยง 1719.4 must meet a minimum equity contribution in the proposed EE Program requirement at the time of the loan closing. The eligible entity will be required to continue to maintain the minimum equity contribution for the life of the loan or other time period as determined by the Administrator and as set forth in the loan documents. The minimum acceptable equity contribution for each RESP borrower will be determined by the Administrator as set forth below and will be included in the Conditional commitment letter and the loan documents as a condition and covenant to the RESP loan.

(1) The required equity contribution and related terms will be determined by the Administrator for the individual RESP applicant based upon the its risk profile and available collateral for the RESP loan.

(2) RUS reserves the right to require additional equity contributions from existing RUS or RESP borrowers when it is in the best interest of the Government.

(3) If the RESP applicant under this section is unable to achieve a minimal acceptable contribution, as set forth in the Conditional commitment letter, the Administrator may consider the following to meet such shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution:

(i) The infusion of additional capital into the EE Program by an Investor to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution. RUS may require that the additional capital be deposited into a RESP applicant's special account subject to a deposit account control agreement with RUS prior to loan closing.

(ii) An unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, in the amount necessary to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution. RUS must be an unconditional payee under the letter of credit and the letter of credit must be in place prior to loan closing and remain in place until the loan is repaid unless specified otherwise in the loan documents.

(iii) General obligation bonds or special revenue bonds issued by tribal, state or local governments in the amount necessary to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution. If the minimum acceptable equity position is satisfied in full or part with general obligation bonds or special revenue bonds, any lien securing the bonds must be subordinate to the lien of the Government securing the RESP loan.

(iv) Any other requirements or mechanisms approved by the Administrator to meet the shortfall to the minimum acceptable equity contribution.
