
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.8 Loan provisions.
####### Financial ratios.

(a)The Administrator will set financial coverage ratios based on the risk profile of the RESP applicant and specific loan terms. Those financial ratios will be included in the RESP borrower's loan documents with RUS.

(1) Unless otherwise notified, existing RUS borrowers will be subject to their current debt service coverage ratios as provided in their previously executed loan contracts with RUS.

(2) The minimum coverage ratio required for RESP borrowers, whether applied on annual or average basis is 1.05 Debt Service Coverage (DSC) unless specifically waived by the Administrator.

(3) DSC for RESP borrowers that are not existing RUS borrowers under the Rural Electrification Act will be defined as (Net Income or Total Margins) + (Interest Charges on Long Term Debt) + (Principal payments from RESP relending activities) + (Depreciation and Amortization Expenses)/Total Debt Service Billed.

(4) In reviewing and approving a RESP loan, the Administrator may increase the coverage ratio required to be met by an individual RESP borrower if the Administrator determines that higher ratios are required to ensure the repayment of the loan made by RUS, or reduce the coverage ratios if the Administrator determines that the lower ratios are in the best interest of the Government. The coverage ratios will be set forth in the loan documents.
