
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.10 Measurement and verification and quality control.
####### General.

(a)A RESP applicant must provide a Measurement and Verification (M&V) plan, satisfactory to the Administrator, to ensure the effectiveness of the energy efficiency loans made to its Qualified Consumers and that there is no conflict of interest in carrying out the EE Program.

(1) RUS acknowledges the broad nature of energy efficiency projects and diverse scope of EE Programs that can be carried out under RESP. A RESP applicant, and its designees, must exercise professional judgment in developing their M&V plans. The nature, scope, and complexity of the EE measures and activities will dictate the level of effort needed for quantifying and verifying the savings. The effort expended should be commensurate with the project capital investment and the risk of miscalculating the savings.

(2) A RESP applicant with an existing EE Program as of April 8, 2014, may submit for consideration the M&V plan previously established to fulfill this requirement.

(3) RUS may reject a loan application or refuse to disburse loan proceeds to an RESP borrower that fails to demonstrate that the Energy audits or M&V plan have been adequately implemented and performed by qualified individuals.

(4) The M&V plan should be based on generally accepted principles and use the best practices of the industry, reliable data, reasonable assumptions and verifiable analytical methodologies.

(5) The M&V plan must describe the organized activities that the RESP applicant will implement to facilitate the adoption of the Energy efficiency measures that will result in energy use or cost savings to the Qualified consumer.

(6) Energy savings should be determined by comparing measured energy unit values (consumption or demand) before and after the implementation of the EE measures, making appropriate adjustments for changes in conditions.

(7) The computation of the savings formula is as follow:
