
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.9 Eligible activities and energy efficiency measures.

(a) A RESP Borrower may provide financing to Qualified consumers to implement or invest in one or more set of EE measures such as those listed in this section.

(b) A RESP borrower may be able to provide financing to Qualified consumers for EE measures not listed in this section, if it can justify, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that the proposed EE measure is consistent with the RESP statute, is cost effective, and the technology is commercially available. The Administrator must make the determination prior to the borrower implementing the EE measure.

(c) A RESP applicant with an existing EE Program as of April 8, 2014, may submit the list of the EE measures used in its program to RUS for validation and approval. The Administrator will make a finding as to whether such EE measures are consistent with the purpose of RESP.

(d) A RESP borrower, subject to the Administrator's written approval, may modify the list of EE measures if those measures are consistent with the statutory purpose of RESP.

(e) RESP loan proceeds must finance EE measures for the purpose of decreasing energy usage or costs of the Qualified consumer by an amount that ensures, to the maximum extent practicable, that the loan term will not pose an undue financial burden on the Qualified consumer.

(f) Eligible EE measures and investments include, but are not limited, to:

(1) Lighting:

(i) Lighting fixture upgrades to improve efficiency.

(ii) Lighting control technologies.

(iii) Daylighting systems.

(iv) Energy-efficient lighting technologies.

(2) Space conditioning, including Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC):

(i) Central Air Systems-Energy Star &#xAE; qualified equipment.

(ii) Room air conditioners.

(iii) Boilers.

(iv) Heat pumps.

(v) Ducts and duct sealing.

(vi) Furnaces-Energy Star&#xAE; qualified equipment.

(vii) Thermostats.

(viii) Economizers.

(ix) Air handlers.

(x) Automated controls.

(3) Building Envelope Improvements:

(i) Improved insulation-adding insulation beyond existing levels, or above existing building codes.

(ii) Moisture barrier improvements and air sealing.

(iii) Caulking and weather stripping of doors and windows.

(iv) Windows upgrades-Energy Star&#xAE; qualified windows.

(v) Door upgrades-including man-doors, overhead doors with integrated insulation and energy efficient windows.

(4) Motor Systems:

(i) Pumps, coupling and low-friction pipes.

(ii) Capacitors.

(iii) Variable frequency drives.

(iv) Induction motors repairs or replacements for energy efficiency.

(v) High efficiency motors-motors with a rated efficiency beyond the Energy Policy Act standards.

(vi) Permanent magnet motors.

(vii) Reluctance motors.

(5) Waste Heat Recovery:

(i) Recuperators.

(ii) Regenerators.

(iii) Waste heat boilers.

(iv) Combined heat and power (CHP) and Waste heat to power (WHP).

(6) Compressed Air Systems.

(7) Water heaters.

(8) Fuel switching.

(9) Irrigation or water system and waste disposal system efficiency improvements.

(10) On or off-grid renewable energy systems if consistent with the statutory purpose of this section.

(11) Energy storage devices if permanently installed to reduce energy cost or usage of the Qualified consumer.

(12) Energy efficient appliance upgrades if attached to real property as fixtures.

(13) Energy audits.

(14) Necessary and incidental activities and investments directly related to the implementation of an Energy efficiency measure.
