
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.13 Auditing and accounting requirements.
####### Auditing requirements.

(b)RESP borrowers will be required to prepare and furnish to RUS, at least once during each 12-month period, a full and complete report of its financial condition, operations, and cash flows, on a comparative basis, along with a report on internal control over financial reporting and on compliance in other matters, both reports in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, audited and certified by an independent certified public accountant, satisfactory to RUS according to the requirements set forth in 7 CFR 1773.5.

(1) Audits must follow governmental auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States (GAGAS) and the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart F-Audit Requirements if applicable.

(2) RESP borrowers with outstanding RUS loans will be subject to the auditing requirements set forth in their existing RUS loan documents. RUS Policy on Audits of RUS Borrowers as provided in 7 CFR part 1773 will govern audits under this paragraph.

(3) RESP borrowers must comply with all reasonable RUS requests to support ongoing monitoring efforts. The RESP borrowers must afford RUS, through their representatives, a reasonable opportunity, at all times during business hours and upon prior notice, to have access to and the right to inspect any or all books, records, accounts, invoices, contracts, leases, payrolls, timesheets, cancelled checks, statements, and other documents, electronic or paper of every kind belonging to or in possession of the RESP borrowers or in any way pertaining to its property or business, including its parents, affiliates, and subsidiaries, if any, and to make copies or extracts therefrom.

(4) The Administrator may modify the audit requirements for RESP borrowers if, in his or her judgement, it is necessary to satisfy the statutory purpose of the program or advance policy goals.

(5) Nothing in this policy shall be construed as a limitation or waiver of any other federal statute or requirement or the Administrator's authority and discretion to implement the RESP in such a way that the Government's interest is adequately preserved.
