
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1719 - RURAL ENERGY SAVINGS PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Application, Submission and Administration of RESP Loans
###### ยง 1719.13 Auditing and accounting requirements.
####### Accounting requirements.

(a)RESP borrowers must follow RUS accounting requirements as set forth in the loan documents.

(1) Existing RUS borrowers must continue recording and reporting transactions pursuant to the RUS Uniform Systems of Accounts-Electric, 7 CFR part 1767. Such borrowers will continue to follow the accounting and reporting requirements set forth in the previously executed loan documents for RUS outstanding loans.

(2) New and RESP only borrowers must adopt and follow a GAAP based system of accounts acceptable to RUS, as well as compliance with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 (for RESP Awardees, the term "grant recipient" in 2 CFR part 200 will also mean "loan recipient.")

(3) All RESP borrowers must promptly notify RUS should a state regulatory authority with jurisdiction over it require it to apply accounting methods or principles different from the ones specified in the loan documents.

(4) RUS will consider borrowers' reasonable proposals to streamline reporting and accounting requirements only when such proposals afford RUS adequate mechanisms to ensure the full and timely repayment of the loan, as determined by RUS.

(5) The Administrator may modify the accounting requirements for RESP borrowers if, in his or her judgement, it is necessary to satisfy the statutory purpose of the program, streamline procedures, or advance policy goals.

(6) Nothing in this policy shall be construed as a limitation or waiver of any other federal statute or requirement or the Administrator's authority and discretion to implement the RESP in such a way that the Government's interest is adequately preserved.
