
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1724 - ELECTRIC ENGINEERING, ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES AND DESIGN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Architectural Services
###### ยง 1724.20 Borrowers' requirements - architectural services.

The provisions of this section apply to all borrower electric system facilities regardless of the source of financing.

(a) Each borrower shall select a qualified architect to perform the architectural services required for the design and construction management of headquarters facilities. The selection of the architect is not subject to RUS approval unless specifically required by RUS on a case by case basis. Architect's qualification information need not be submitted to RUS unless specifically requested by RUS on a case by case basis.

(b) The architect retained by the borrower shall not be an employee of the building supplier or contractor, except in cases where the building is prefabricated and pre-engineered.

(c) The architect's duties are those specified under the Architectural Services Contract and under subpart E of this part, and, as applicable, those duties assigned to the "engineer" for competitive procurement procedures in part 1726 of this chapter.

(d) If the facilities are RUS financed, the borrower shall submit or require the architect to submit one copy of each construction progress report to RUS upon request.

(e) Additional information concerning RUS requirements for electric borrowers' headquarters facilities are set forth in subpart E of this part. See also RUS Bulletin 1724E-400, Guide to Presentation of Building Plans and Specifications, for additional guidance. This bulletin is available from Program Development and Regulatory Analysis, Rural Utilities Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Stop 1522, 1400 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20250-1522.
