
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1724 - ELECTRIC ENGINEERING, ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES AND DESIGN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart E - Electric System Design
###### ยง 1724.55 Dam safety.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) The borrower shall evaluate the hazard potential of its dams in accordance with Appendix E of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Engineering and Design Dam Safety Assurance Program, ER 1110-2-1155, July 31, 1995. A summary of the hazard potential criteria is included for information as Appendix A to this subpart. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Engineering and Design Dam Safety Assurance Program, ER 1110-2-1155, July 31, 1995, published by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, is hereby incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference is approved by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers Engineering and Design Dam Safety Assurance Program may be obtained from the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers, Publications Depot, 2803 52nd Ave., Hyattsville, MD 20781. It is also available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, Electric Staff Division, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, Room 1246-S, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(3) For high hazard potential dams, the borrower must obtain an independent review of the design and critical features of construction. The reviewer must have demonstrated experience in the design and construction of dams of a similar size and nature. The reviewer must be a qualified engineer not involved in the original design of the dam or a Federal or State agency responsible for dam safety. The reviewer must be approved by RUS.

(4) The independent review of design must include, but not necessarily be limited to, plans, specifications, design calculations, subsurface investigation reports, hydrology reports, and redesigns which result from encountering unanticipated or unusual conditions during construction.

(5) The independent review of construction shall include:
