
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1724 - ELECTRIC ENGINEERING, ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES AND DESIGN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart F - RUS Contract Forms
###### ยง 1724.74 List of electric program standard contract forms.
####### List of guidance contract forms.

(d)(1) RUS Form 179, Rev. 9-66, Architects and Engineers Qualifications. This form is used to document architects and engineers qualifications.

(2) RUS Form 215, Rev. 5-67, Engineering Service Contract-System Planning. This form is used for engineering services for system planning.

(3) RUS Form 234, Rev. 3-57, Final Statement of Engineering Fee. This form is used for the closeout of engineering services contracts.

(4) RUS Form 241, Rev. 3-56, Amendment of Engineering Service Contract. This form is used for amending engineering service contracts.

(5) RUS Form 244, Rev. 12-55, Engineering Service Contract-Special Services. This form is used for miscellaneous engineering services.

(6) RUS Form 258, Rev. 4-58, Amendment of Engineering Service Contract-Additional Project. This form is used for amending engineering service contracts to add an additional project.

(7) RUS Form 284, Rev. 4-72, Final Statement of Cost for Architectural Service. This form is used for the closeout of architectural services contracts.

(8) RUS Form 297, Rev. 12-55, Engineering Service Contract-Retainer for Consultation Service. This form is used for engineering services for consultation service on a retainer basis.

(9) RUS Form 459, Rev. 9-58, Engineering Service Contract-Power Study. This form is used for engineering services for power studies.
