
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1726 - ELECTRIC SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart H - Modifications to RUS Standard Contract Forms
###### ยง 1726.251 Prior approved contract modification related to price escalation on transmission equipment, generation equipment, and generation construction contracts.
####### General.

(a)Where the borrower encounters reluctance among manufacturers, suppliers, and contractors to bid a firm price on transmission equipment or generation equipment, materials or construction, modifications may be made in the RUS standard form of contracts. These modifications, if applicable, may include, as an alternative to the standard form, provisions for adjusting a base price either upward or downward as determined by changes in specified indexes between the time of the bid and the time the work is performed or materials are procured by the contractor for such work. A large number of labor and materials indexes are published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The borrower (acting through its engineer, if applicable) will select the indexes for the particular item to be used in the price adjustment clause. Suppliers' corporate indexes may not be used. Labor and materials indexes are reported in the BLS's monthly publications entitled "Employment and Earnings" and "Producer Prices and Price Indexes." These publications may be ordered through the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, or any of the BLS regional offices.
