
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1728 - ELECTRIC STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION
##### ยง 1728.30 Inclusion of an item for listing or technical acceptance.
###### Action by Technical Standards Committee "A".

(d)(1) Committee "A" may take one of the following actions:

(i) Accept an item for listing without conditions (domestic items only),

(ii) Reject an item (domestic or nondomestic),

(iii) Accept an item for listing with conditions (domestic items only),

(iv) Table an item for a time period sufficient to allow the sponsor to be notified and furnish additional information (domestic or nondomestic),

(v) Grant technical acceptance with or without conditions for a period of one year from the date of notification by RUS (nondomestic items only).

(2) All committee decisions regarding the actions listed above must be unanimous. If the vote is not unanimous, the item shall be referred to Technical Standards Committee "B." Written notice of Technical Standards Committee "A's" decision, stating the basis for the decision, will be provided to the sponsor.

(3) Items accepted without conditions by the Technical Standards Committees will be considered to be accepted on a general basis. No restrictions as to quantity or application will be placed on items which have received general acceptance. Items accepted subject to certain conditions, such as limited use to gain service experience, or limited use appropriate to certain areas and conditions, will be considered to be accepted on a conditional basis. The conditions will be cited as a part of the listing provided for in ยง 1728.60, or as part of the technical acceptance for nondomestic items.
