
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1728 - ELECTRIC STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION
##### ยง 1728.204 Electric standards and specifications for materials and construction.
###### General specifications.

(a)This section details requirements for 15 and 25 kV single phase, V-phase, and three-phase power cables for use on 12.5/7.2 kV (15 kV rated) and 24.9/14.4 kV (25 kV rated) underground distribution systems with solidly multi-grounded neutral. Cable complying with this specification shall consist of solid or strand-filled conductors which are insulated with tree-retardant cross-linked polyethylene (TR-XLPE) or ethylene propylene rubber (EPR), with concentrically wound copper neutral conductors covered by a nonconducting or semiconducting jacket. 35 kV rated cables may be used in 24.9/14.4 kV application where additional insulation is desired.

(1) The cable may be used in single-phase, two (V)-phase, or three-phase circuits.

(2) Acceptable conductor sizes are: No. 2 AWG (33.6 mm) through 1000 kcmil (507 mm) for 15 kV cable, No. 1 AWG (42.4 mm) through 1000 kcmil (507 mm) for 25 kV, and 1/0 (53.5 mm) through 1000 kcmil (507 mm) for 35 kV cable.

(3) Except where provisions therein conflict with the requirements of this specification, the cable shall meet all applicable provisions of ANSI/ICEA S-94-649-2004 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1728.97). Where provisions of the ANSI/ICEA specification conflict with this section, ยง 1728.204 shall apply.
