
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1728 - ELECTRIC STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION
##### ยง 1728.204 Electric standards and specifications for materials and construction.
###### Partial discharge tests.

(2)Manufacturers shall demonstrate that their cable is not adversely affected by excessive partial discharge. This demonstration shall be made by completing the procedures described in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (i)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Each shipping length of completed cable shall be tested and have certified test data results available indicating compliance with the partial discharge test requirements in ANSI/ICEA S-94-649-2004 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1728.97).

(ii) Manufacturers shall test production samples and have available certified test data results indicating compliance with ASTM D 2275-01 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1728.97) for discharge resistance as specified in the ANSI/ICEA S-94-649-2004 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1728.97). Samples of insulated cable shall be prepared by either removing the overlying extruded insulation shield material, or using insulated cable before the extruded insulation shield material is applied. The sample shall be mounted as described in ASTM D 2275-01 and shall be subjected to a voltage stress of 250 volts per mil of nominal insulation thickness. The sample shall support this voltage stress, and not show evidence of degradation on the surface of the insulation for a minimum of 100 hours. The test shall be performed at least once on each 50,000 feet (15,240 m) of cable produced, or major fractions thereof, or at least once per insulation extruder run.
