
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1728 - ELECTRIC STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION
##### § 1728.204 Electric standards and specifications for materials and construction.
###### Phase conductors.

(c)(1) Central phase conductors shall be copper or aluminum as specified by the borrower within the limit of § 1728.204(a)(2).

(2) Central copper phase conductors shall be annealed copper in accordance with ASTM B 3-01 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). Concentric-lay-stranded phase conductors shall conform to ASTM B 8-04 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97) for Class B stranding. Compact round concentric-lay-stranded phase conductors shall conform to ASTM B 496-04 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). Combination unilay stranded phase conductors shall conform to ASTM B 787/B 787M-04 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). Compact round atranded copper conductors using single input wire construction shall conform to ASTM B835-04 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). Compressed round stranded copper conductors, hard, medium-hard, or soft using single input wire construction shall conform to ASTM B902-04a (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). If not specified, stranded phase conductors shall be Class B stranded.

(3) Central aluminum phase conductors shall be one of the following:

(i) Solid: Aluminum 1350 H12 or H22, H14 or H24, H16 or H26, in accordance with ASTM B 609/B 609M-99 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97).

(ii) Stranded: Aluminum 1350 H14 or H24, H142 or H242, H16, or H26, in accordance with ASTM B 609/B 609M-99 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97) or Aluminum 1350-H19 in accordance with ASTM B 230/B 230M-07 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). Concentric-lay-stranded (includes compacted and compressed) phase conductors shall conform to ASTM B 231/B 231M-04 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97) for Class B stranding. Compact round concentric-lay-stranded phase conductors shall conform to ASTM B 400-08 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). Combination unilay stranded aluminum phase conductors shall conform to ASTM B 786-08 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). If not specified, stranded phase conductors shall be class B stranded.

(4) The interstices between the strands of stranded conductors shall be filled with a material designed to fill the interstices and to prevent the longitudinal migration of water that might enter the conductor. This material shall be compatible with the conductor and conductor shield materials. The surfaces of the strands that form the outer surface of the stranded conductor shall be free of the strand fill material. Compatibility of the strand fill material with the conductor shield shall be tested and shall be in compliance with ICEA T-32-645-93 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97). Water penetration shall be tested and shall be in compliance with ANSI/ICEA T-31-610-2007 (incorporated by reference in § 1728.97).

(5) The center strand of stranded conductors shall be indented with the manufacturer's name and year of manufacture at regular intervals with no more than 12 inches (0.3 m) between repetitions.
