
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1728 - ELECTRIC STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION
##### ยง 1728.204 Electric standards and specifications for materials and construction.
###### Insulation shield.

(f)(1) A semi-conducting thermosetting polymeric layer meeting the requirements of ANSI/ICEA S-94-649-2004 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1728.97) shall be extruded tightly over the insulation to serve as an electrostatic shield and protective covering. The shield compound shall be compatible with, but not necessarily the same material composition as, that of the insulation (e.g., cross-linked polyethylene shield may be used with EPR insulation). The void and protrusion limits on the semi-conducting shields shall be in compliance with the ANSI/ICEA S-94-649-2004.

(2) The thickness of the extruded insulation shield shall be in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-94-649-2004 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1728.97).

(3) The shield shall be applied such that all conducting material can be easily removed without the need for externally applied heat. Stripping tension values shall be 3 through 18 pounds (1.36 through 8.16 kg) for TR-XLPE and EPR discharge free cables. Discharge resistant cables shall have strip tension of 0 through 18 pounds (0 through 8.16 kg).

(4) The insulation shield shall meet all applicable tests of ANSI/ICEA S-94-649-2004 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1728.97).
