
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1730 - ELECTRIC SYSTEM OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
##### Subpart B - Operations and Maintenance Requirements
###### ยง 1730.28 Emergency Restoration Plan (ERP).

(a) Each borrower shall have a written ERP. The ERP should be developed by the borrower individually or in conjunction with other electric utilities (not all having to be RUS borrowers) through the borrower's unique knowledge of its system, prudent utility practices (which includes development of an ERP) and the borrower's completed VRA. If a joint electric utility ERP is developed, each RUS borrower shall prepare an addendum to meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section as it relates to its system.

(b) Each applicant that submits an application for an RUS electric program loan or grant shall include with its application package a letter certification that such applicant has a written ERP.

(c) The ERP shall include:

(1) A list of key contact emergency telephone numbers (emergency agencies, borrower management and other key personnel, contractors and equipment suppliers, other utilities, and others that might need to be reached in an emergency);

(2) A list of key utility management and other personnel and identification of a chain of command and delegation of authority and responsibility during an emergency;

(3) Procedures for recovery from loss of power to the headquarters, key offices, and/or operation center facilities;

(4) A Business Continuity Section describing a plan to maintain or re-establish business operations following an event which disrupts business systems (computer, financial, and other business systems);

(5) A section describing a plan to comply with the eligibility requirements to qualify for the FEMA Public Assistance Grant Program; and

(6) Other items, if any, identified by the borrower as essential for inclusion in the ERP.

(d) The ERP must be approved and signed by the borrower's Manager or Chief Executive Officer, and approved by the borrower's Board of Directors.

(e) Copies of the most recent approved ERP must be made readily available to key personnel at all times.

(f) The ERP shall be Exercised at least annually to ensure operability and employee familiarity.

(g) If modifications are made to an existing ERP:

(1) The modified ERP must be prepared in compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section; and

(2) Additional Exercises may be necessary to maintain employee operability and familiarity.

(h) Each borrower shall maintain records of such Exercises.
