
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1735 - GENERAL POLICIES, TYPES OF LOANS, LOAN REQUIREMENTS - TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Terms of Loans
###### ยง 1735.46 Loan security documents.

(a) Loans are to be repaid according to their terms. RUS generally obtains a first lien on all assets of the borrower. This lien shall be in the form of a mortgage by the borrower to the Government or a deed of trust made by and between the borrower and a trustee, satisfactory to the Administrator, together with such security agreements, financing statements, or other security documents as RUS may deem necessary in a particular case. Where a borrower is unable by reason of pre-existing encumbrances, or otherwise, to furnish a first mortgage lien on its entire system the Administrator may, if he determines such security to be reasonably adequate and the form and nature thereof otherwise appropriate, accept other forms of security. See RUS Bulletins 320-4, 320-22, 321-2, 322-2, 323-1, and 326-1 for details. See 7 CFR part 1744, subpart B for information on lien accommodations and subordinations.

(b) Loan security documents of borrowers with loans approved after October 6, 1997 will provide limits on allowable cash distributions in any calendar year as follows:

(1) No more than 25 percent of the prior calendar year's net earnings or margins if the borrower's net worth is at least 1 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made;

(2) No more than 50 percent of the prior calendar year's net earnings or margins if the borrower's net worth is at least 20 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made;

(3) No more than 75 percent of the prior calendar year's net earnings or margins if the borrower's net worth is at least 30 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made; or

(4) No limit on distributions if the borrower's net worth is at least 40 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made.

(c) Borrowers that have not received a loan after October 6, 1997 may request the Administrator to apply these requirements to them. Borrowers may request in writing that RUS substitute the new requirements described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section. Upon request by the borrower, the provisions of the borrower's loan documents restricting cash distributions or investments shall not be enforced to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent with this section.

(d) Rural development investments meeting the criteria set forth in 7 CFR part 1744, subpart D, will not be counted against a borrower's allowable cash distributions in any calendar year (7 U.S.C. 926).

(e) References to a borrower's mortgage in this section include deeds of trust and any other loan document applying the same requirements to a borrower.

(f) This section does not limit the rights of any parties to the mortgage other than RUS.
