
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1735 - GENERAL POLICIES, TYPES OF LOANS, LOAN REQUIREMENTS - TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Terms of Loans
###### ยง 1735.43 Payments on loans.

(a) Except as described in this paragraph (a), RUS loans approved after October 6, 1997 must be repaid with interest within a period that, rounded to the nearest whole year, equals the expected composite economic life of the facilities to be financed, as calculated by RUS; expected composite economic life means the depreciated life plus three years. The expected composite economic life shall be based on the depreciation rates for the facilities financed by the loan. In states where the borrower must obtain state regulatory commission approval of depreciation rates, the depreciation rates used shall be the rates currently approved by the state commission or rates for which the borrower has received state commission approval. In cases where a state regulatory commission does not approve depreciation rates, the expected composite economic life shall be based on the most recent median depreciation rates published by RUS for all borrowers (see 7 CFR 1737.70). Borrowers may request a repayment period that is longer or shorter than the expected composite economic life of the facilities financed. If the Administrator determines that a repayment period based on the expected composite economic life of the facilities financed is likely to cause the borrower to experience hardship, the Administrator may agree to approve a period longer than requested. A shorter period may be approved as long as the Administrator determines that the loan remains feasible.

(b) Borrowers that have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator an inability to maintain the funded reserve or net plant to secured debt ratio requirements, if any, contained in their mortgage, may elect to replace notes with an original maturity that exceeded the composite economic life of the facilities financed with notes bearing a shorter maturity approximating the expected composite economic life of the facilities financed, if this will result in a shorter maturity for the loan. The principal balance of the notes (hereinafter in this section called the "refunding notes") issued to refund and substitute for the original notes would be the unpaid principal balance of the original notes. The refunding notes would mature at a date no later than the remaining economic life of the facilities financed by the loan, plus three years, as determined by the original feasibility study prepared in connection with the loan. Interest on the original note must continue to be paid through the closing date. All other payment terms, including the rate of interest on the refunding notes, would remain unchanged. Disposition of funds in the funded reserve will be determined by RUS at the closing date. RUS will notify the borrower in writing of the amendment of loan payment requirements and the terms and conditions thereof.

(c) A borrower qualifying under paragraph (b) of this section shall not be required to pay a prepayment premium on such portion of the payments under its new notes as exceeds the payments required under the notes being replaced.

(d) To apply for refunding notes, borrowers must send to the Area Office the following:

(1) A certified copy of a board resolution requesting an amendment of loan payment requirements and that certain notes be replaced;

(2) If applicable, evidence of approval by the regulatory body with jurisdiction over the telecommunications service provided by the borrower to issue refunding notes; and

(3) Such other documents as may be required by the RUS.

(e) Principal and interest will be repaid in accordance with the terms of the notes. Generally, interest is payable each month as it accrues. Principal payments on each note generally are scheduled to begin 2 years after the date of the note. After this deferral period, interest and principal payments on all funds advanced during this 2-year period are scheduled in equal monthly installments. Principal payments on funds advanced 2 years or more after the date of the note will begin with the first billing after the advance. The interest and principal payments on each of these advances will be scheduled in equal monthly installments. This CFR part supersedes those portions of RUS Bulletin 320-12, "Loan Payments and Statements" with which it is in conflict.
