
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1735 - GENERAL POLICIES, TYPES OF LOANS, LOAN REQUIREMENTS - TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Acquisitions Involving Loan Funds
###### ยง 1735.75 Interim financing.

(a) A borrower may submit a written request for RUS approval of interim financing if it is necessary to close an acquisition before the loan to finance the acquisition is approved. Loan funds shall not be used to reimburse acquisition costs unless RUS has granted approval of interim financing prior to the closing of the acquisition.

(b) RUS will approve interim financing of acquisitions only in cases where loan funds cannot be made available in time for the closing.

(c) RUS will not approve interim financing unless the following information is acceptable:

(1) A written request for approval of interim financing, including a brief description of the acquisition, an explanation of the urgency of proceeding with the acquisition, and the source of funds to be used.

(2) A completed RUS Form 490, "Application for Telephone Loan or Loan Guarantee." See 7 CFR part 1737.

(3) The portions of the Loan Design that cover the proposed acquisition, including cost estimates and information on any investments in nonrural areas. See 7 CFR 1737.

(4) The information required in ยง 1735.74 (a)(1) through (a)(8), (a)(14) and (b)(1).

(5) Any other data deemed necessary by the Administrator to approve the interim financing of the acquisition.

(d) Furthermore, RUS will not approve interim financing if, in RUS's judgment, the proposed acquisition will not qualify for RUS financing or the proposed interim financing presents unacceptable loan security risks to RUS.

(e) Because RUS approval of interim financing is not a commitment to make a loan, RUS will not approve interim financing unless the borrower is prepared to assume responsibility for financing all obligations incurred.

(f) If the borrower plans to proceed with the closing after receiving RUS approval of interim financing, it must first receive preliminary approval from RUS. See ยง 1735.90

(g) See 7 CFR part 1737 for regulations on interim financing for construction.

(h) See 7 CFR part 1744, subpart B for conditions under which RUS will provide shared first lien and/or a lien accommodation for non-RUS lenders.
