
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1735 - GENERAL POLICIES, TYPES OF LOANS, LOAN REQUIREMENTS - TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Acquisitions Involving Loan Funds
###### ยง 1735.74 Submission of data.

(a) RUS will not approve any acquisition, other than of toll facilities (see subpart J of this part), financed in whole or in part with loan funds until the borrower submits the following data to the GFR:

(1) For any nonborrowers involved, their most recent balance sheets, operating statements, detail of plant accounts, reports to the state commission, and audits, if available.

(2) Completed RUS Form 507, "Report on Telephone Acquisition," which provides system data, including the type of purchase and purchase price, a system description, and data by exchange. See ยง 1735.3 for information on obtaining copies of this form.

(3) A map (such as a road map) showing county lines, the boundaries of the proposed acquisition and the borrower's existing service territory, and the names of other telephone companies serving adjoining areas.

(4) A brief statement of the plans for incorporating the acquired facilities into the borrower's existing system.

(5) The number of subscribers currently receiving service in the area to be acquired and the number of new subscribers that will be served over the next 5 years as a result of the acquisition.

(6) The proposed purchase price.

(7) Two copies of any options, bills of sale, or deeds, and four copies of any acquisition agreements. All of these documents are subject to RUS approval. If the acquisition agreement is approved by RUS, two copies of it shall be returned to the borrower.

(8) An appraisal by the borrower's consulting engineer or other qualified person of the physical plant to be acquired. The appraisal shall include the following:

(i) Inspection of each central office, noting the age and condition of the switch and associated equipment, and the extent and quality of maintenance of the equipment and premises.

(ii) Inspection of the outside plant, noting the general age and condition of cable and wire, poles and related hardware, pedestals, and subscriber drops. Any joint use or ownership shall be explained.

(iii) Inspection of miscellaneous items such as commercial office facilities, vehicles, furniture, tools and work equipment, and materials and supplies in stock, noting age and condition.

(iv) Inspection of all buildings and other structures (such as radio towers), noting age and condition.

(v) Detailed description of all real estate including the present market value that local real estate dealers, bankers, insurance agents, etc., place on the property.

(vi) Any widely accepted method, approved by RUS, may be used to estimate the condition of the facilities in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (a)(8)(iv) of this section. The "percent condition" method is recommended, but is not required.

(9) Copies of deeds to real estate to be acquired, with an explanation of the proposed use of the land.

(10) Copies of leases to be acquired.

(11) Copies of any existing mortgages with parties other than RUS, indentures, deeds of trust, or other security documents or financing agreements relating to the property to be acquired and any contracts or other rights or obligations to be assumed as part of the acquisition.

(12) A list of all counties in which the proposed system will have facilities.

(13) If the borrower is a cooperative-type organization, a description of its plans for taking subscribers in as members, membership fees, equity payments required because of the acquisition, and extent of membership support.

(14) A certification, signed by the president of the borrower, that the borrower is participating in the State's telecommunications modernization plan (for information concerning the plan, see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B). This certification is not required if the borrower is seeking a guaranteed loan.

(15) Any other data deemed necessary by the Administrator for an evaluation of the acquisition.

(b) For stock acquisitions, the borrower shall submit the following in addition to the items listed in (a) of this section:

(1) A list of all stockholders of the company to be acquired and the number of shares each owns.

(2) Guarantees and indemnifications to be obtained from the sellers of the stock.
