
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1735 - GENERAL POLICIES, TYPES OF LOANS, LOAN REQUIREMENTS - TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Requirements for All Acquisitions and Mergers
###### ยง 1735.94 Final approval and closing procedure.

(a) Legal documents relating to the acquisition or merger, including copies of required franchises, commission orders, permits, licenses, leases, title evidence, corporate proceedings, and contracts to be assigned to the purchaser shall be forwarded to the Area Office prior to closing.

(b) The Administrator will not give final approval to any acquisition or merger until all RUS requirements relating to the transactions are satisfied.

(c) Following the Administrator's final approval of the proposal, the Area Office shall inform the borrower in writing of the necessary legal and other actions required for the advance of loan funds to finance the acquisition, including the submission, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, of (1) all information and documents necessary to demonstrate that the transaction has been completed, and (2) all loan contracts, notes, mortgages, and related documents and materials required by RUS.

(d) Deeds reflecting the change in ownership, executed bills of sale, and opinions of counsel shall be forwarded to the Area Office following closing.

(e) RUS will not advance loan funds to furnish or improve service in the acquired or merged areas until the Administrator has given final approval and the transaction has been closed. RUS may, however, advance funds if it determines that loan security will not be jeopardized.

(f) At the discretion of RUS, a GFR may be present at the closing to assist the borrower and protect the interests of RUS. Under certain circumstances the closing may take place prior to RUS granting final approval for the transaction and the execution of amended loan security documents.
