
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart C - The Loan Application
###### ยง 1737.22 Supplementary information.

RUS requires additional information in support of the loan application form. The information listed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section must be submitted as part of the loan application as specified in 7 CFR 1737.21.

(a) The following must be submitted by all initial loan applicants. Borrowers seeking subsequent loans must submit any changes in these items since they were last submitted.

(1) Name of attorney and manager, and certified copies of board resolutions selecting them.

(2) Certified copy of articles of incorporation showing evidence of filing with the Secretary of State and in county records.

(3) Certified copies of bylaws and board minutes showing their adoption.

(4) Certified sample stock certificates.

(5) Amounts of common and preferred stock issued and outstanding.

(6) Names, addresses, business affiliations, and stockholdings of the manager, officers, directors, and other principal stockholders (those owning at least 20 percent of borrower's voting stock).

(7) Certified copies of real estate deeds showing all recording information.

(8) Service agreements, such as for management or system maintenance.

(9) Certified copies of existing leases, except those for vehicles, furniture and office equipment, and computer equipment.

(10) Certified copies of existing franchises.

(11) Information on any franchises required as a result of the proposed loan project.

(12) Federal Communications Commission (FCC) authorizations.

(13) For toll, operator office, traffic, and EAS agreements, the names of all parties to the agreement, the type of agreement, and the effective and termination dates of the agreement and annexes, and the exchanges involved.

(14) Copies of rate schedules. (A copy of the tariff must be available for review by the RUS field representative.)

(15) Executed copy of RUS Form 291, "Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities".

(16) A sketch or map showing the existing and proposed service areas.

(17) Executed assurance that the borrower will comply with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisitions Policies Act of 1970, as amended (see 49 CFR 24.4).

(18) A certification (which is included on RUS Form 490, "Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee") that the borrower has been informed of the collection options listed below that the Federal government may use to collect delinquent debt. RUS and other government agencies are authorized to take any or all of the following actions in the event that a borrower's loan payments become delinquent or the borrower defaults (OMB Circular A-129 defines "delinquency" for direct or guaranteed loans as debt more than 31 days past due on a scheduled payment):

(i) Report the borrower's delinquent account to a credit bureau.

(ii) Assess additional interest and penalty charges for the period of time that payment is not made.

(iii) Assess charges to cover additional administrative costs incurred by the Government to service the borrower's account.

(iv) Offset amounts owed to the borrower under other Federal programs.

(v) Refer the borrower's debt to the Internal Revenue Service for offset against any amount owed to the borrower as an income tax refund.

(vi) Refer the borrower's account to a private collection agency to collect the amount due.

(vii) Refer the borrower's account to the Department of Justice for litigation in the courts.

(19)(i) A certification, signed by the president of the borrower, that the borrower is participating in the State's telecommunications modernization plan (for additional information concerning the plan, see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B). This certification is not required if the borrower is seeking a guaranteed loan.

(ii) All of the actions in paragraph (a)(18) of this section can and will be used to recover any debts owed when it is determined to be in the interest of the Government to do so. The notification and the required form of certification in paragraph (a)(18) of this section are included on RUS Form 490, Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee.

(b) The following must be submitted by borrowers seeking subsequent loans:

(1) Certified financial statements for the last 3 years.

(2) Toll settlement statements and related data.

(3) Present exchange rates and any pending changes.

(4) Environmental review documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(5) A "Certification Regarding Lobbying" for loans, or a "Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance" for loan guarantees, and when required, an executed Standard Form LLL, "Disclosure of Lobbying Activities," (see section 319, Public Law 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352)).

(6) Executed copy of Form AD-1047, "Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions."

(7) Borrower's determination of loan maturity, including information noted in ยง 1735.43(a) of this chapter as required.

(8) Approved depreciation rates for items under regulatory authority jurisdiction.

(9) A statement that the borrower is or is not delinquent on any Federal debt, such as income tax obligations or a loan or loan guarantee from another Federal agency. If delinquent, the reasons for the delinquency must be explained and RUS will take such explanation into consideration in deciding whether to approve the loan. RUS Form 490, "Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee," contains a section for providing the required statement and any appropriate explanation.

(10) Any other supporting data required by the Administrator.

(c) For borrowers requesting funds for construction or refinancing, in addition to the information included in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following must be submitted:

(1) Copies of all bonds, notes, mortgages, and contracts covering outstanding indebtedness proposed to be refinanced.

(2) For each note or bond, the name of the creditor, original amount of debt and amount as of last year-end, purpose of debt, dates incurred and due, interest rates, and repayment terms.

(3) Justification for refinancing and evidence that the underlying loan to be refinanced would have been eligible for RUS financing under the RE Act.

(d) Loan requests whose sole purpose is to refinance loans under Titles II and VI of the RE Act must submit the following:

(1) Certified financial statements for the last 3 years.

(2) Five-year financial projections consisting of Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow Statement.

(3) A "Certification Regarding Lobbying" for loans, or a "Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance" for loan guarantees, and when required, an executed Standard Form LLL, "Disclosure of Lobbying Activities," (see section 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352)).

(4) Executed copy of Form AD-1047, "Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions."

(5) Borrower's determination of loan maturity.

(6) A statement that the borrower is or is not delinquent on any Federal debt, such as income tax obligations or a loan or loan guarantee from another Federal agency. If delinquent, the reasons for the delinquency must be explained and RUS will take such explanation into consideration in deciding whether to approve the loan. RUS Form 490, "Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee," contains a section for providing the required statement and any appropriate explanation.

(7) Any other supporting data required by the Administrator.

(e) Borrowers requesting loan funds for acquisitions should refer to RUS bulletins 320-4, 321-2, 325-1, and 326-1 for requirements.

(f) For all applications that request funding for retail broadband as defined in 7 CFR 1735.2, the application must include all information required for the public notice as stated in 7 CFR 1735.23(a).
