
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart D - Preloan Studies - Area Coverage Survey and Loan Design
###### ยง 1737.31 Area Coverage Survey (ACS).

(a) The Area Coverage Survey (ACS) is a market forecast of service requirements of subscribers in a proposed service area.

(b) The objective of the ACS is to determine the location, number and telephone service requirements of subscribers in a service area. RUS will use the ACS to appraise the proposed plan for area coverage and to determine the largest practical number of rural subscribers which can be served on an economically feasible basis. Preparation of the ACS requires:

(1) A field survey of the service area to locate and identify on maps all business and residential establishments, whether currently served or not. The location and identification of future establishments are also recorded on the maps.

(2) A forecast of the number of telephone subscribers, in the entire service area, by exchange, grade and class of service, projected for the end of the 5-year study period.

(c) The results of the survey and forecast shall be:

(1) Shown on maps (maps for those service areas previously financed by RUS do not have to be included in the ACS provided that the borrower's records contain sufficient information as to subscriber development to enable cost estimates for the proposed facilities to be prepared);

(2) Tabulated on RUS Form 569 "Area Coverage Survey Report," or its equivalent; and

(3) Supported by a narrative (see ยง 1737.32(f)(1)(ii)) containing information on the bases for the service requirement forecasts in each exchange.

(d) Guidelines on preparing an ACS are provided in RUS Telecommunications Engineering and Construction Manual section 205.

(e) The RUS field representative reviews and approves the borrower's ACS. The borrower should make sure this is done before proceeding with the Loan Design in order to prevent unnecessary expense should the ACS not be approved. The borrower's engineer must use the RUS-approved ACS in preparing the Loan Design.
