
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart D - Preloan Studies - Area Coverage Survey and Loan Design
###### ยง 1737.32 Loan Design (LD).
####### is

(b) Because of the importance and complexity of the engineering studies necessary for the LD, it should be prepared by a competent experienced telecommunications engineer. While the LD is subject to RUS approval, the borrower's selection of an engineer to perform preloan work is not. Note: The borrower's selection of an engineer to perform postloan worksubject to RUS approval. This should be considered when selecting a preloan engineer, if the same individual or company is to perform both services. See 7 CFR 1753.17.

(c) An LD for initial loans or for any exchange areas not previously financed by RUS requires an Outside Plant Design that provides:

(1) The most economical and practical design for a telephone system that meets immediate service demands; and

(2) The basis for orderly expansion of the system to serve the widest practical number of rural establishments.

(d) The LD for a subsequent loan (which only includes areas previously financed by RUS) does not require a detailed Outside Plant Design. The detailed Outside Plant Design for these subsequent loans may be completed for RUS review and approval after loan approval, but before staking is started and plans and specifications are prepared. By scheduling preparation of the outside plant design closer to preparation for construction, the need for redesign resulting from changing conditions and its attendant costs are reduced.

(e) Guidelines on preparing an LD are provided in RUS Telecommunications Engineering and Construction Manual section 205.

(f) The LD shall include a narrative, several exhibits, and a certification, as explained below:
