
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart D - Preloan Studies - Area Coverage Survey and Loan Design
###### ยง 1737.32 Loan Design (LD).
####### Certification.

(3)The following certification shall be signed by a principal of the engineering firm and the borrower:

(g) The RUS field representative shall review and make a recommendation on each LD.

(1) After completion of the LD, the borrower arranges a meeting with its engineer and RUS's field representative to review:

(i) Design and cost estimates.

(ii) Reserves available from prior loans, if any, or internally generated funds which may be applied against the requirements of the current application.

(2) One copy of RUS Form 567, "Checklist for Review of Loan Design," completed and signed by the borrower's engineer must be attached to the LD submitted to the RUS field representative.

(3) The RUS field representative recommends acceptance of the LD as the basis for RUS financing.

(4) Three copies of the final LD with the RUS field representative's recommendation are then sent to the relevant Area Office in RUS. A fourth copy is retained by the RUS field representative.

(5) A transmittal letter from the borrower must accompany the LDs, requesting that the application previously submitted be amended so as to be consistent with the approved LD.

(6) Final approval of the LD is given by the relevant Area Office in RUS. To be approved, the LD must be cost effective, include appropriate technology, and provide area coverage.

(7) Upon receipt of the LD and any other required information, RUS makes a preliminary analysis of the loan proposal. Before final consideration of the loan, RUS reviews the results of its preliminary analysis with the borrower.
