
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart E - Interim Financing of Construction of Telephone Facilities
###### ยง 1737.42 Procedure for construction.

(a) If RUS approves the interim financing, interim construction shall be conducted in accordance with 7 CFR part 1753, 7 CFR part 1788, RUS Bulletin 320-15, and RUS Bulletins 381-1, 381-2, 381-4, 381-7, 381-8, 381-9, 381-10, 381-11, 381-13, 382-1, 382-2, 382-3, 383-1, 383-4, 384-1, 384-2, 384-3, 385-1, 385-2, 385-3, 385-4, 385-5, 385-6, 387-1, 387-2, 387-3, 387-4, and 387-5) except for the following:

(1) All sellers and contractors invited to bid must be informed that funds from sources other than RUS will be used to pay for construction.

(2) Contracts involving the interim construction must contain a provision, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, stating that RUS is not committed to lend or advance funds to finance the project.

(3) Contracts will not be approved by RUS until the borrower demonstrates to RUS's satisfaction that funds from sources other than RUS will be available when needed to pay invoices submitted in accordance with contract payment terms.

(4) The borrower shall not begin interim construction until all necessary licenses, permits, and other governmental approvals have been obtained.

(b) After RUS loan funds are released, the borrower can obtain reimbursement for interim financing by submitting a Financial Requirement Statement. See 7 CFR part 1744, subpart C (or RUS Bulletin 327-1).

(1) The first advance of loan funds to a borrower that has received interim financing approval generally will be limited to funds to repay any interim financing indebtedness and such additional amounts as RUS deems necessary. RUS will make no further advances of loan funds until the borrower has submitted evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, that (i) any indebtedness created by the interim financing and any liens associated therewith have been fully discharged of record and (ii) the borrower has satisfied all other conditions on the advance of additional loan funds.

(2) If the source of funds for interim financing is the borrower's internally generated funds, the borrower may request reimbursement of those funds along with advances for other purposes on the first Financial Requirement Statement.
