
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart D - Preloan Studies - Area Coverage Survey and Loan Design
###### ยง 1737.32 Loan Design (LD).
####### Exhibits.

(2)(i) An RUS Form 569, "Area Coverage Survey Report," or its equivalent shall be included for the total system and for each exchange in which system improvements or additions are proposed.

(ii) An RUS Form 495, "Construction Cost Estimates," or its equivalent shall be prepared for each exchange in which system improvements or additions are proposed. An explanation of the method used in developing these cost estimates must be included.

(iii) RUS Form 494, "Loan Design Summary," or its equivalent shall be prepared for each loan. This must show all expected 5-year construction costs, loan and nonloan.

(iv) A schematic trunking diagram shall be included showing the number and type, length, ownership and makeup of existing and proposed toll and EAS trunks, plus transmission and traffic data for each trunk group.

(v) Detailed outside plant design maps must be submitted for all central office areas of initial loan applicants and for areas not previously served by existing borrowers or financed by RUS. These design maps must be in sufficient detail to substantiate the construction cost estimates.

(vi) For subsequent loans only, if a change in system boundaries is proposed, a map must be furnished showing present and proposed boundaries, and existing establishments and subscribers in the new areas.

(vii) Any other special exhibits needed to support particular items in the loan proposal must be included.
