
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart D - Preloan Studies - Area Coverage Survey and Loan Design
###### ยง 1737.32 Loan Design (LD).
####### Investment in nonrural areas.

(viii)(A) For initial loans, or loans for areas not previously financed by RUS, the borrower must fully discuss proposed improvements or expansions in an exchange serving a community over 5,000 population. The name of the community, the number of existing and projected new subscribers by grades of service within the community, detailed cost estimates of the facilities involved, and information sufficient to establish the necessity for the use of loan funds must be provided.

(B) For subsequent loans, the borrower must fully discuss as specified in paragraph (f)(1)(viii)(A) of this section proposed improvements or expansions in an exchange serving a community over 5,000 population which had a population of more than 5,000 at the time the facilities to serve the community were first financed by RUS. The population determination is based on the corporate limits or boundaries of unincorporated areas in existence at the time the facilities to serve the community were first financed by RUS.

(C) For subsequent loans, the borrower shall state whether the population of a community, which is currently more than 5,000, was considered rural at the time RUS first financed the facilities to serve the community. Detailed cost estimates are not required if the population was considered rural at the time RUS first financed facilities to serve the community, see 7 CFR 1735.13(d).
