
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart E - Interim Financing of Construction of Telephone Facilities
###### ยง 1737.41 Procedure for obtaining approval.

(a) The borrower shall submit to the RUS Area Office a written request for approval of interim financing. This request shall include:

(1) A description of the construction proposed under interim financing.

(2) An explanation of the urgency of proceeding with the proposed construction.

(3) An estimate of the cost.

(4) The source of funds to be used for interim financing.

(b) RUS will not approve interim financing until it has reviewed and found acceptable:

(1) All of the information required under ยง 1737.21; or

(2) The following documents:

(i) The loan application (RUS Form 490) clearly marked "in support of interim financing request."

(ii) The Loan Design (LD), or the portion thereof that covers the proposed construction if the completed LD is not available. See 7 CFR 1737.32.

(iii) Evidence that the borrower has complied with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(iv) A statement that the borrower is or is not delinquent on any Federal debt, such as income tax obligations or a loan guarantee from another Federal agency. If delinquent, the reasons for the delinquency must be explained and RUS will take such explanation into consideration in deciding whether to approve the interim financing, see 7 CFR 1737.22(b)(9).

(v) A "Certification Regarding Lobbying" for loans, or a "Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance" for loan guarantees, and when required, an executed Standard Form LLL, "Disclosure of Lobbying Activities," (see section 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352)).

(vi) Executed copy of Form AD-1047, "Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions."

(vii) Any other supporting data required by the Administrator.

(c) RUS will not approve a borrower's request for approval of interim financing if, in RUS's judgment:

(1) The proposed interim financing does not comply with the requirements of this subpart.

(2) The proposed interim construction will not qualify for RUS financing.

(3) The proposed interim financing presents unacceptable loan security risks to RUS, or otherwise is not in the best interests of RUS.
