
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1737 - PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
##### Subpart G - Project Cost Estimation Procedures
###### ยง 1737.61 Cost allocation for rural and nonrural areas.

(a) Pursuant to the requirements in 7 CFR part 1735, if loan funds are proposed for facilities to serve subscribers in nonrural areas, RUS shall allocate costs between rural and nonrural areas. This allocation will be used to determine whether the use of loan funds in nonrural areas is necessary and incidental to furnishing and improving telephone service in rural areas. Cost estimates shall be provided by the borrower in the LD. See subpart D of this part. RUS will use the following method to review the cost breakdowns and to determine their appropriateness:

(1) The costs of facilities associated directly with particular subscribers shall be allocated to those subscribers.

(2) The costs of facilities that serve both rural and nonrural subscribers shall be allocated based on the relative number of rural and nonrural subscribers receiving service from those facilities.

(3) When a borrower's exchange that includes a nonrural community will have an extended area of service (EAS) with other exchanges of the borrower, the breakdown of subscribers and funds in the allocation for rural and nonrural areas included in the proposed loan shall show the number of rural and nonrural subscribers and the costs to serve each group, as determined per paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, in the subject exchange and in all exchanges connected by EAS.

(b) If RUS determines that costs cannot be adequately allocated using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, RUS shall, on a case by case basis, allocate costs between the rural and nonrural subscribers using whatever methodology it deems reasonable. All allocations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be documented.
