
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1738 - RURAL BROADBAND LOANS, LOAN/GRANT COMBINATIONS, AND LOAN GUARANTEES
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Requirements
###### § 1738.57 Ineligible assistance purposes.

Assistance under this part must not be used for any of the following purposes:

(a) To fund operating expenses of the Applicant except for eligible development costs under § 1738.56(e).

(b) To fund any costs associated with the project incurred prior to the date on which notification of a complete application is issued (see § 1738.203), except for eligible development costs under § 1738.56(e).

(c) To fund the acquisition of the stock of an affiliate.

(d) To fund the purchase or acquisition of any facilities or equipment of an affiliate.

(e) To fund the purchase of CPE and the installation of associated inside wiring, unless the CPE will be owned by the Applicant throughout its economic life.

(f) To fund the purchase or lease of any vehicle unless it is used primarily in construction or system improvements.

(g) To fund the cost of systems or facilities that have not been designed and constructed in accordance with the Award contract and other applicable requirements.

(h) To fund broadband facilities leased under the terms of an operating lease, a short-term lease, or more than 3 years of a capital/finance lease.

(i) To fund merger or consolidation of entities.

(j) To fund non-capitalized labor in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 except for eligible development costs under § 1738.56(e).

(k) To provide grant funding, a subsidized loan or payment assistance to cover the costs to refinance an outstanding loan.
