
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1738 - RURAL BROADBAND LOANS, LOAN/GRANT COMBINATIONS, AND LOAN GUARANTEES
##### Subpart E - Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Application Review and Underwriting
###### ยง 1738.206 Financial information.
####### https://www.rd.usda.gov/files/AccountingGuidance10.pdf.

(2) Pro forma financial forecast, including a balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows. For non-regulated entities, the pro forma should be prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and the Agency's guidance on grant accounting found atRegulated telecommunications providers may follow the USOA and RUS accounting standards for their pro forma, including accounting for grant-funded assets as a contribution, in accordance with 47 CFR 32.2, if the project assets will be treated as regulated plant. The pro forma should validate the sustainability of the project by including subscriber estimates related to all proposed service offerings; annual financial projections with balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements; supporting assumptions for a 5-year forecast period and a depreciation schedule for existing facilities and those funded with Federal assistance, and other funds. This pro forma should indicate the committed sources of capital funding and include a bridge year prior to the start of the forecast period. This bridge year is the year in which the application is submitted and serves as a buffer between the historical financial information and the forecast period. Including the bridge year, the pro forma statements span a 6-year period.

(i) The financial projections submitted by Applicants must demonstrate that their entire operation will be able to meet two of the following three ratio requirements: A minimum TIER, CR, or DSCR equal to 1.25 by the end of the 5-year forecast period. Additionally, the projections must demonstrate the Applicant's ability to maintain a Net worth of at least 20 percent throughout the forecast period. Demonstrating that the operation can achieve a projected Net worth of 20 percent and TIER, CR, or DSCR of 1.25 does not ensure that the Agency will approve the loan or loan/grant combination.

(ii) If the financial analysis suggests that the operation will not be able to achieve the Net worth requirement or two of the required TIER, CR, or DSCR in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Agency will not approve the loan or loan/grant combination Award without additional capital, additional cash, additional security, and/or a change in the Award terms.

(c) Based on the financial evaluation, the Award documents will specify the Net worth and TIER, CR, or DSCR requirements in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section that must be met throughout the amortization period.
