
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1738 - RURAL BROADBAND LOANS, LOAN/GRANT COMBINATIONS, AND LOAN GUARANTEES
##### Subpart E - Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Application Review and Underwriting
###### ยง 1738.207 Network design.

(a) Applications for loan or loan/grant combinations must include a network design that demonstrates the project's technical feasibility. The network design must fully support the delivery of service to meet the broadband build-out requirements specified in ยง 1738.55, together with any other services to be provided. In measuring speed, the Agency will take into account industry and regulatory standards. The design must demonstrate that the project will be complete within the 5-year forecast period and must include the following items:

(1) A detailed description of the proposed technology that will be used to provide service at the broadband lending speed. This description must clearly demonstrate that all premises in the proposed funded service area will be able to receive service at the broadband lending speed;

(2) A detailed description of the existing network. This description should provide a synopsis of the current network infrastructure;

(3) A detailed description of the proposed network. This description should provide a synopsis of the proposed network infrastructure;

(4) A description of the approach and methodology for monitoring ongoing service delivery and service quality for the services being deployed;

(5) Estimated project costs detailing all facilities that are required to complete the project. These estimated costs must be broken down to indicate costs associated with each proposed service area and must specify how Agency and non-Agency funds will be used to complete the project;

(6) A construction build-out schedule of the proposed facilities by service area on an annual basis. The build-out schedule must include:

(i) A description of the workforce that will be required to complete the proposed construction;

(ii) A timeline demonstrating project completion within the forecast period; and

(iii) Detailed information showing that all premises within the proposed funded service area will be offered service at the broadband lending speed when the system is complete;

(7) A depreciation schedule for all facilities financed with loan and loan/grant combination funds;

(8) An environmental report prepared in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970; and

(9) Any other system requirements required by the Administrator through a notice published in the.

(b) The network design must be prepared by a registered Professional Engineer with telecommunications experience who is certified in at least one of the states where a project is to be constructed or by qualified personnel on the Applicant's staff. If the network design is prepared by the Applicant's staff, the application must clearly demonstrate the staff's qualifications, experience, and ability to complete the network design. To be considered qualified, staff must have at least 3 years of experience in designing the type of broadband system proposed in the application.
