
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1738 - RURAL BROADBAND LOANS, LOAN/GRANT COMBINATIONS, AND LOAN GUARANTEES
##### Subpart E - Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Application Review and Underwriting
###### ยง 1738.206 Financial information.

(a) The Applicant must submit financial information acceptable to the Agency that demonstrates that the Applicant has the financial capacity to fulfill the loan or loan/grant combination requirements in this part and to successfully complete the proposed project.

(1) Applicants must provide complete copies of audited financial statements (opinion letter, balance sheet, income statement, statement of changes in financial position, and notes to the financial statement) for the two years preceding the application submission. For governmental entities financial statements must be accompanied with certifications identifying unrestricted cash that will be available on a yearly basis to the Applicant. Subsidiary operations formed from existing utility providers may provide audited financial statements for the two previous years from the parent company, as long as the parent will be a cosigner of the loan or loan/grant documents, pledging its assets in accordance with ยง 1738.154(a), or will guarantee the debt.

(2) If the Applicant relies on services provided by a parent or affiliated operation, it must also provide complete copies of audited financial statements for those entities for the fiscal year preceding the application submission. If audited statements are not available, unaudited statements and tax returns for the previous year must be submitted.

(3) Applicants must provide detailed information for all outstanding obligations. Copies of existing notes, loan agreements, security agreement, or other legal documents covering loans, grants, leases, or other loan guarantees must be included in the application.

(4) Applicants must provide a detailed description of working capital requirements and the source of these funds, if internally generated funds are insufficient.

(b) Applicants must submit the following documents that demonstrate the proposed project's financial viability and ability to repay the requested loan.

(1) Customer projections for the 5-year forecast period that substantiate the projected revenues for each service that is to be provided. The projections must be provided on at least an annual basis and must be developed separately for each service area and must be clearly supported by evidence such as market surveys or current company take rates.
