
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1739 - BROADBAND GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Community Connect Grant Program
###### ยง 1739.17 Scoring of applications.

The ranking of the "community-oriented connectivity" benefits of the Project will be based on documentation in support of the need for services, benefits derived from the proposed services, characteristics of the PFSA, local community involvement in planning and implementation of the Project, and the level of experience of the management team. In ranking applications the Agency will consider the following criteria based on a scale of 100 possible points:

(a) An analysis of the challenges of the following criteria, laid out on a community-wide basis, and how the Project proposes to address these issues (up to 50 points):

(1) The economic characteristics;

(2) Educational challenges;

(3) Health care needs; and

(4) Public safety issues;

(b) The extent of the Project's planning, development, and support by local residents, institutions, and Critical Community Facilities. Documentation must include evidence of community-wide involvement, as exemplified by community meetings, public forums, and surveys. In addition, applicants should provide evidence of local residents' participation in the Project planning and development (up to 40 points).

(c) The level of experience and past success of operating broadband systems for the management team. (up to 10 points)

(d) In making a final selection among and between applications with comparable rankings and geographic distribution, the Administrator may take into consideration the characteristics of the PFSA. Only information provided in the application will be considered. Applicants should therefore specifically address each of the following criteria to differentiate their applications:

(1) Persistent poverty counties that will be served within the PFSA;

(2) Out-migration Communities that will be served within the PFSA;

(3) The rurality of the PFSA;

(4) The speed of service provided by the project;

(5) Substantially underserved trust areas that will be served within the PFSA;

(6) Community members with disabilities that will be served within the PFSA; and

(7) Any other additional factors that may be outlined in the FOA, the Community Connect Grant program application guide, and the Community Connect Grant program website.
