
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1740 - RURAL ECONNECTIVITY PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Requirements
###### ยง 1740.11 Eligible and ineligible service areas.
####### Prior funded service areas to include:

(2)(i) RUS Broadband loans. Service areas of borrowers that have RUS Broadband loans, as defined in this part, are ineligible for all other applicants, and can be found on the Agency web page for the program. However, RUS Broadband Borrowers that have built out their service areas consistent with their application and award documents, but were not required to provide, and are currently not providing, sufficient access to broadband pursuant to this regulation are eligible to apply for funding for these service areas; provided that they have not defaulted on, and have materially complied with, in the sole discretion of RUS, their prior Broadband loan award requirements. Current RUS Broadband Borrowers that have received funding to provide sufficient access to broadband but have not yet built out their system are ineligible to apply for funding for these service areas.

(ii) RUS Community Connect Grants. Service areas that received grants under the RUS Community Connect Grant Program are eligible if they do not have sufficient access to broadband, except for those grants still under construction. Service areas still under construction can be found on the Agency's web page.

(iii) RUS BIP Grants. Service areas that received a 100 percent grant under the RUS Broadband Initiatives Program are eligible if they do not have sufficient access to broadband.
