
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1740 - RURAL ECONNECTIVITY PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Requirements
###### ยง 1740.12 Eligible and ineligible cost purposes.
####### Eligible award costs.

(a)Award funds under this part may be used to pay for the following costs:

(1) To fund the construction or improvement of facilities, including buildings and land, required to provide fixed terrestrial broadband service, including fixed wireless service, and any other facilities required for providing other services over the same facilities, such as equipment required to comply with CALEA;

(2) To fund reasonable preapplication expenses in an amount not to exceed five percent of the award. Preapplication expenses must be included in the first request for advance of award funds and will be funded with either grant or loan funds. If the funding category applied for has a grant component, then grant funds will be used for this purpose. If preapplication expenses are not included in the first request for advance of award funds, they will become an ineligible purpose; and

(3) To fund the acquisition of an existing system that does not currently provide sufficient access to broadband for upgrading that system to meet the requirements of this regulation. The cost of the acquisition is limited to 40 percent of the award amount requested. Acquisitions can be considered for 100 percent loans.
