
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1740 - RURAL ECONNECTIVITY PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Application Submission and Evaluation
###### ยง 1740.63 Financial information.
####### https://www.rd.usda.gov/files/AccountingGuidance10.pdf.

(5) Pro Forma financial analysis prepared in conformity with GAAP and the Agency's guidance on grant accounting can be found atThe Pro Forma should validate the sustainability of the project by including subscriber estimates related to all proposed service offerings; annual financial projections with balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements; supporting assumptions for a five-year forecast period and a depreciation schedule for existing facilities, those facilities funded with federal assistance, matching funds, and other funds. This pro forma should indicate the committed sources of capital funding and include a bridge year prior to the start of the forecast period. This bridge year shall be used as a buffer between the historical financial information and the forecast period and is the year in which the application is submitted.

(i) The financial projections must demonstrate that by the end of the forecast period, the project will meet at least two of the requirements described in ยง 1740.61(a).

(ii) The financial projections must also demonstrate positive cash flow from operations at the end of the forecast period.

(iii) Based on the financial evaluation, additional conditions may be added to the Award documents to ensure financial feasibility and security on the award.

(b) Publicly traded companies that have a bond rating from Moody's, Standard and Poor's, or Fitch of Investment Grade at the time an application is submitted do not have to complete the pro forma financial projections. In addition, applicants with this classification that elect not to submit financial projections do not need to submit NFSAs.
