
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1744 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO GUARANTEED AND INSURED TELEPHONE LOANS
##### Subpart B - Lien Accommodations and Subordination Policy
###### § 1744.30 Automatic lien accommodations.
####### Supplemental mortgage.

(h)If the private lender determines that a supplemental mortgage is required to secure the private lender notes on a pari passu or pro-rata basis with all other notes secured under the Government mortgage, the private lender may prepare the supplemental mortgage using the form attached as appendix F to this subpart or the borrower may request RUS to prepare such supplemental mortgage in accordance with the following procedures:

(1) The private lender preparing the supplemental mortgage shall execute and forward the completed document to RUS. Upon ascertaining the correctness of the form and the information concerning RUS, RUS will execute and forward the supplemental mortgage to the borrower.

(2) When requested by the borrower, RUS will expeditiously prepare the supplemental mortgage, using the form in appendix F to this subpart, upon submission by the private lender of:

(i) The name of the private lender;

(ii) The Property Schedule for inclusion as supplemental mortgage Schedule B, containing legally sufficient description of all real property owned by the borrower; and

(iii) The amount of the private lender note.

(3) The government is not responsible for ensuring that the supplemental mortgage has been executed by all parties and is a valid and binding instrument enforceable in accordance with its terms, and recorded and filed in accordance with applicable law. If the private lender determines that additional security instruments or other documents are required or that RUS must take additional actions to secure the private lender notes under the mortgage, the private lender shall follow the procedures established in §§ 1744.40 or 1744.50, as appropriate. Except for the actions of the government expressly established in § 1744.40, the government undertakes no obligation to effectuate an automatic lien accommodation. When processing of the supplemental mortgage has been completed to the satisfaction of the private lender, the borrower shall provide RUS with the following:

(i) A fully executed counterpart of the supplemental mortgage, including all signatures, seals, and acknowledgements; and

(ii) Copies of all opinions rendered by borrower's counsel to the private lender.
