
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1744 - POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO GUARANTEED AND INSURED TELEPHONE LOANS
##### Subpart C - Advance and Disbursement of Funds
###### ยง 1744.66 The financial requirement statement (FRS).
####### Acquisitions.

(7)Based on final itemized costs, but cannot exceed the amount in the approved loan budget.

(c) Funds other than loan funds deposited in the construction fund, which shall include proceeds from the sale of property on which RUS has a lien, (lines 10 and 11 on the FRS) are reported as a credit under total disbursements. Disbursements of these funds are subject to the same RUS approvals as loan funds.

(d) The borrower shall request advances as needed to meet its obligations promptly. Generally, RUS does not approve an advance requested more than 60 days before the obligation is payable.

(e) Funds should be disbursed for the item for which they were advanced. If the borrower needs to pay an invoice for which funds have not been advanced, and disbursement of advanced funds for another item has been delayed, the latter funds may be disbursed to pay the invoice up to the amount approved for advance for that item on the FRS. The borrower shall make erasable entries on the next FRS showing the changes under "Total Advances to Date" and shall explain the changes in writing before RUS will process the next FRS.

(f) Advances will be rounded down to the nearest thousands of dollars except for final amounts.

(g) The certification on each of the three copies of the FRS sent to RUS shall be signed by a corporate officer of manager authorized by resolution of the board of directors to sign such statements. At the time of such authorization a certified copy of the resolution and one copy of RUS Form 675, Certificate of Authority, shall be submitted to RUS.

(h) The documentation required for the FRS transactions are the deposit slips, the canceled construction fund checks and the supporting invoices or reimbursement schedules. These shall be kept in the borrower's files for periodic audits by RUS.
