
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1751 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM PLANNING AND DESIGN CRITERIA, AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - State Telecommunications Modernization Plan
###### ยง 1751.102 Modernization Plan Developer; eligibility.

(a) Each PUC is eligible until February 13, 1996 to develop a proposed Modernization Plan and deliver it to RUS. RUS will review and consider for approval all PUC-developed Modernization Plans received by RUS within this one year period. The review and approval, if any, may occur after the one year period ends even though the PUC is no longer eligible to submit a proposed Modernization Plan.

(b) The PUC must notify all Telecommunications Providers in the State and other interested parties of its intent to develop a proposed Modernization Plan. The PUC is encouraged to consider all Telecommunications Providers' and interested parties' views and incorporate these views into the Modernization Plan. In the event that the PUC does not intend to develop a proposed Modernization Plan, RUS requests that the PUC inform RUS of this decision as soon as possible.

(c)(1) If the PUC is no longer eligible to develop a Modernization Plan or has informed RUS that it will not develop a Modernization Plan, as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a majority of the Borrowers within the State may develop the Modernization Plan. If a majority of Borrowers develops the Modernization Plan, the following apply:

(i) All Borrowers shall be given reasonable notice of and shall be encouraged to attend and contribute to all meetings and other proceedings relating to the development of the Modernization Plan; and

(ii) Borrowers developing a Modernization Plan are encouraged to solicit the views of other providers of telecommunications services and interested parties in the State.

(2) There is no time limit placed on Borrowers to develop a Modernization Plan. Borrowers should be aware that certain types of loans may be restricted until a Modernization Plan is approved. See ยง 1751.103.
