
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1751 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM PLANNING AND DESIGN CRITERIA, AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - State Telecommunications Modernization Plan
###### ยง 1751.104 Obtaining RUS approval of a proposed Modernization Plan.

(a) To obtain RUS approval of a proposed Modernization Plan, the Plan Developer must submit the following to RUS:

(1) A certified copy of the statute or PUC order, if the PUC is the Plan Developer, or a written request for RUS approval of the proposed Modernization Plan signed by an authorized representative of the Plan Developer, if a majority of Borrowers is the Plan Developer; and

(2) Three copies of the proposed Modernization Plan.

(b) Generally, RUS will review the proposed Modernization Plan within (30) days and either:

(1) Approve the Modernization Plan if it conforms to the provisions of this subpart in which case RUS will return a copy of the Modernization Plan with notice of approval to the Plan Developer; or

(2) Not approve the proposed Modernization Plan if it does not conform to the provisions of this subpart. In this event, RUS will return the proposed Modernization Plan to the Plan Developer with specific written comments and suggestions for modifying the proposed Modernization Plan so that it will conform to the provisions of this subpart. If the Plan Developer remains eligible, RUS will invite the Plan Developer to submit a modified proposed Modernization Plan for RUS consideration. This process can continue until the Plan Developer gains approval of a proposed Modernization Plan unless the Plan Developer is a PUC whose eligibility has expired. If a PUC's eligibility has expired, RUS will return the proposed Modernization Plan unapproved. Because RUS does not have authority to extend the term of a PUC's eligibility, RUS recommends that the PUC submit a proposed Modernization Plan at least 90 days in advance of February 13, 1996 to allow time for this process.
