
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1751 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM PLANNING AND DESIGN CRITERIA, AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - State Telecommunications Modernization Plan
###### ยง 1751.105 Amending a Modernization Plan.

(a) RUS understands that changes in standards, technology, regulation, and the economy could indicate that an RUS-approved Modernization Plan should be amended.

(b) The Plan Developer of the Modernization Plan may amend the Modernization Plan if RUS finds the proposed changes continue to conform to the provisions of this subpart.

(c) The procedure for requesting approval of an amended Modernization Plan is identical to the procedure for a proposed Modernization Plan except that there are no time limits on the eligibility of the Plan Developer.

(d) The existing Modernization Plan remains in force until RUS has approved the proposed amended Modernization Plan.

(e) RUS may from time to time revise these regulations to incorporate newer technological and economic standards that RUS believes represent more desirable goals for the future course of telecommunications services. Such revisions will be made in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. These revisions shall not invalidate Modernization Plans approved by RUS but shall be used by RUS to determine whether to approve amendments to Modernization Plans presented for RUS approval after March 15, 1995.
