
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1753 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Construction of Buildings
###### § 1753.25 General.

(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the Loan Documents setting forth the requirements and the procedures to be followed by borrowers in constructing headquarters, commercial office, central office, warehouse, and garage buildings with loan funds.

(b) Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2.

(c) All plans and specifications for buildings to be constructed with loan funds are subject to the approval of RUS. In addition, preliminary plans and specifications for headquarters and commercial office buildings to be constructed with loan funds are subject to RUS approval.

(d) RUS Form 257, Contract to Construct Buildings, shall be used for the construction of all headquarters, commercial office, central office, warehouse, and garage buildings with loan funds. Refer to § 1753.26 for further instructions.

(e) The borrower shall use the sealed competitive bid procedure for all building construction, except for:

(1) Minor construction using subpart I procedures.

(2) Major construction, where the borrower has received advanced approval to perform the construction by force account.

Refer to §§ 1753.27 and 1753.29 for further instructions.

(f) The site location, design, and construction of the facilities must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including:

(1) Pub. L. 90-480 (42 U.S.C. 4151) (Access to Physically Handicapped), which requires certain buildings financed with Federal funds be designed and constructed to be accessible to the physically handicapped.

(2) Pub. L. 91-596 (29 U.S.C. 651) the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. OSHA issues rules and regulations covering occupational safety and health standards for buildings. These regulations are codified in 29 CFR chapter XVII.

(3) 7 CFR part 1970.

(4) 7 CFR part 1792, subpart C, which requires that the building design comply with applicable seismic design criteria. Prior to the design of buildings, borrowers shall submit to RUS a written acknowledgement from the architect or engineer that the design will comply.

(g) All construction pertaining to the building structure shall be performed under one contract. Separate contracts may be used for planting shrubbery, surfacing of roads and parking areas, and other identifiable parts of the project not pertaining to the building structure. These separate contracts shall also be subject to RUS approval as described in this subpart D.

(h) The borrower is responsible for submitting evidence, satisfactory to RUS, establishing that clear title to the building site has been obtained. RUS will not approve the construction contract until it has given title clearance.
