
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1753 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Engineering Services
###### ยง 1753.17 Engineering services.
####### Minor construction.

(2)(i) When the borrower proposes to perform the inspection and certification of minor construction, the following shall be submitted to the RUS:

(A) A copy of the employee's qualifications and experience record, unless previously submitted. RUS requires a minimum of four years of construction and inspection experience. The employee cannot be engaged in the actual construction.

(B) A letter signed by an authorized representative of the borrower authorizing the performance of these services by the employee, subject to RUS approval, and certifying the supporting information.

(ii) RUS shall notify the borrower by letter of approval or disapproval of the borrower's staff employee to perform the inspection and certification of construction. The approval shall be limited to the employee's area of expertise.

(d)(1) Subject to the requirements of this part and other applicable regulations, RUS will make loan funds available for the architectural and engineering services up to the amounts included in the approved loan.

(2) Advance of funds shall be requested on an FRS as set forth in 7 CFR part 1744 subpart C.

(e) The borrower shall obtain status of contract and force account proposal reports from the engineer once each month. The report shall show for each contract or FAP the approved contract or FAP amount, the date of approval, the scheduled date construction was to begin and the actual date construction began, the scheduled completion date, the estimated or actual completion date, the estimated or actual date of submission of closeout documents, and an explanation of delays or other pertinent data relative to progress of the project. One copy of this report shall be submitted to the GFR.

(f)(1) Upon completion of all services required under the engineering service contract Form 217, the borrower shall obtain from the engineer four copies of the Final Statement of Engineering Fee, Form 506.

(2) If the statement is satisfactory, the borrower shall sign all copies and send three to the GFR.

(3) After RUS approval of Form 506, one copy shall be sent to the borrower and one copy sent to the engineer.

(4) The borrower shall promptly make final payment to the engineer.
