
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1753 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - Construction of Buildings
###### ยง 1753.26 Plans and specifications (P&S).
####### et seq.

(a) For headquarters and commercial office buildings only, the borrower shall prepare preliminary P&S showing the floor plan and general architectural details of the building to be constructed using loan funds. In particular, the preliminary P&S shall address the requirements of ยง 1753.25(f) and the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601). The P&S shall be submitted to the GFR and are subject to RUS approval.

(b) The borrower shall prepare P&S for construction of all buildings. Each set of P&S shall include:

(1) RUS Contract Form 257, Contract to Construct Buildings, completed to the extent explained in (c) of this section.

(2) Complete and detailed specifications covering materials and workmanship.

(3) A detailed building plan. Where the building is to house electronic apparatus, the detailed plan or specifications shall include the equipment environmental requirements and special equipment required.

(4) A site plan for each building showing the building location and giving the legal description of the site. Sufficient information must be provided for the site so that it can be identified as the same property on which title opinion was submitted to RUS. The legal description shall be typed on the site plan. The borrower shall also furnish topographical information and a description of any proposed site development work and show proposed connections for public utilities.

(c) RUS Contract Form 257 shall be completed as follows:
