
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1753 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart H - Purchase and Installation of Special Equipment
###### ยง 1753.68 Purchasing special equipment.
####### Initial equipment purchase.

(2)(i) The borrower prepares P&S and, for projects estimated to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, sends two copies to GFR for approval.

(ii) For projects estimated to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, RUS will either approve P&S in writing or notify the borrower of the reasons for withholding approval.

(iii) For projects estimated to cost less than $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, the borrower may proceed with procurement upon completion of the P&S.

(iv) If the borrower has employed full competitive bidding in the selection, a contract may be executed with the successful bidder and the borrower may proceed to paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section.

(v) If the borrower did not follow a fully competitive bidding process as described in ยง 1753.8, the selection, along with a summary of all proposals and an engineer's recommendation, shall be sent to RUS. RUS shall approve the proposal selection in writing or notify the borrower of any reason for withholding approval.

(vi) The borrower sends three executed contracts including specifications to RUS for approval.

(vii) After RUS approval of the contract, one copy will be returned to the borrower and one copy will be sent to the seller.
