
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1753 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart G - Outside Plant Major Construction by Force Account
###### ยง 1753.58 Closeout documents.
####### Closeout procedures.

(c)(1) The borrower shall notify the GFR when the project is ready for final inspection.

(2) The GFR shall be invited to make the final inspection accompanied by the engineer and the borrower.

(3) The borrower shall correct all deficiencies found during the final inspection.

(4) The borrower may request the assistance of an RUS field accountant to review the borrower's record of construction expenditures and assist the borrower with any accounting problems in connection with construction expenditures.

(5) After inspection, the final inventory documents shall be assembled as indicated in the table in this section. RUS Forms 817, 817a, and 817b are to be submitted to GFR only if the amount of the closeout exceeds the original force account proposal by 20% or more. Otherwise, the final inventory documents are to be assembled and retained by the borrower for at least two years.

(6) Upon approval of the closeout documents, RUS will notify the borrower of approval and of any adjustments to be made in funds advanced in connection with the construction.

(d) The above are not intended to be a complete description of the requirements of the documents relating to RUS's closeout procedure. Refer to the documents for additional requirements.
