
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1753 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart H - Purchase and Installation of Special Equipment
###### ยง 1753.68 Purchasing special equipment.
####### General.

(a)(1) Equipment purchases are categorized as initial equipment purchase, equipment additions to existing systems and new system additions.

(i) An initial equipment purchase is a first time purchase by a borrower of a complete system of special equipment.

(ii) Equipment additions to existing systems are additions of components to complete operating systems to increase system capacity that require components made by the manufacturer of the existing system.

(iii) New system additions are purchases of complete systems of special equipment when the purpose can be accomplished either with equipment of the same type and manufacture as other complete operating systems in the borrower's system, or with complete systems of special equipment from other manufacturers.

(iv) Where equipment is obtained under a Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 (RUS Contract Form 395) without installation, the borrower shall require the supplier to provide a detailed proposed bonding and grounding plan and detailed installation information. The installation information is to enable acceptance testing by the borrower upon completion of the installation.

(2) For initial equipment purchases that qualify as major construction, the borrower shall obtain proposals from at least three suppliers of equipment of different manufacturers.

(3) For equipment additions to increase the capacity of existing systems, the borrower may negotiate for equipment of a specific type and manufacture. RUS approval to negotiate in this instance is not required if these additions were specifically described in the LD approved by RUS

(4) For new system additions, the borrower may request RUS approval to negotiate for additional equipment for the purpose of standardization on a system basis, provided RUS approved the procurement method used for the initial equipment purchase. RUS approval to negotiate must be obtained before release of the P&S to the seller.

(5) RUS will not approve negotiation with a seller of non-domestic equipment for the purpose of standardization, because such a purchase does not meet the "Buy American" provision.

(6) RUS recommends, but does not require, that borrowers include installation by the seller for initial installations of special equipment that qualify as major construction.

(7) Special equipment may be installed by the borrower if it has qualified personnel and test equipment available to install the equipment and make the required acceptance tests, and written approval is given by RUS.

(8) Installations, whether by the borrower or the seller, must meet the installation requirements of RUS Contract Form 395specifications. A copy of the acceptance tests results must be attached to the closeout documents or work order summary.

(9) The specifications for the various applications of equipment is prepared by the RUS borrower's engineer and based on generally accepted engineering considerations and practices found in the Telecommunications Industry.

(10) The borrower must obtain authorization from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to construct and operate radio transmitting equipment. Evidence of FCC authorization is required for RUS contract approval. Where required, the borrower must obtain approval of state regulatory bodies regarding tariffs and related matters.
