
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.3 Field trials.
###### Central office equipment.

(2)The procedure set forth in Bulletin 384-1 "Purchasing and Installing Central Office Equipment" shall be followed except that "The Central Office Equipment Contract (Including Installation)", RUS Form 525, shall be used to purchase switching equipment for field trials. In addition, the borrower and supplier shall execute three copies of a "Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial," RUS Form 399, or a "Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial (Secondary-Delivery, Installation, Operation)", RUS Form 399a, as the case may be, as well as three copies of the RUS Form 399b, "RUS Telecommunications Equipment Field Trial", and forward them, together with three copies of the executed contract and specification to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch. This category includes:

(i) Central office dial equipment;

(ii) Direct distance dialing equipment;

(iii) Automatic number identification equipment;

(iv) Line concentrators;

(v) Remote switching equipment; and

(vi) All other items of equipment associated with switching equipment, such as loop extenders.

(3) Protection equipment and materials, outside plant equipment and materials, and all other equipment and materials, which includes all items not covered in paragraph (j) (1) or (2) of this section, shall be handled as described in Bulletin 344-1 "Methods of Purchasing Materials and Equipment for Use on Systems of Telephone Borrowers" except that the borrower's purchase order form is to be used for purchasing materials and equipment in these categories. In addition, the borrower and supplier shall execute three copies of the "Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial," RUS Form 399, or a "Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial (Secondary-Delivery, Installation, Operation)", RUS Form 399a, as the case may be, as well as three copies of the RUS Form 399b, "RUS Telecommunications Field Trial", and forward them, together with three copies of the purchase order to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch.

(k) For all items except Electronic Central Office Equipment, suppliers and manufacturers must furnish warranties or guarantees satisfactory to RUS against the failure of the material and equipment used in the field trial. Terms of this warranty must not be less than the provisions of the standard warranty included in the "Telephone System Construction Contract", RUS Form 515, or the warranty provided for similar materials and equipment included in the "List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers", RUS Bulletin 344-2. In lieu of a warranty, materials and equipment are sometimes furnished to RUS borrowers on a reduced or no cost basis. Terms of such arrangements are subject to RUS approval and should be fully covered in field trial proposals forwarded by borrowers to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch for review and approval. For the purchase of electronic central office equipment, suppliers and manufacturers are to provide warranties as provided in the applicable RUS contract form: RUS Form 397 for electronic equipment and RUS Form 525 for central office equipment. Forms 399 and 399a, which apply to field trials of these devices, specify that the term of the warranty does not begin until the satisfactory conclusion of the field trial.
