
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1753 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart J - Construction Certification Program
###### ยง 1753.92 Policies and requirements.

(a) It is RUS policy that, as borrowers gain in experience and maturity, the advice and assistance rendered by RUS shall progressively diminish. Prior to approval of a loan, RUS may nominate certain borrowers to fulfill the responsibilities for administration and construction of projects financed with RUS loans. Borrowers who accept this nomination will be known as "certification borrowers," and the program in which they participate will be known as the "certification program."

(b) Generally, initial loan borrowers are not eligible for the certification program.

(c) Generally, the factors which RUS will consider in selecting borrowers for the certification program will include:

(1) The experience of the staff of the borrower.

(2) The RUS assessment of the borrower's ability to handle the certification program requirements considering the size and complexity of the proposed construction in the LD.

(3) The history of the borrower in following RUS's policies and procedures.

(4) Other factors deemed relevant by RUS.

(d) Except as specifically stated in this subpart, certification borrowers must comply with all requirements applicable to other borrowers.

(e) RUS reserves the right at any time to require submission of construction documents or to remove the borrower from the certification program.
