
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart K - Production or Disclosure of Official Information in Legal Proceedings
##### Responsibilities of the Department
###### ยง 1.223 What must I, as an employee, do upon receiving a demand?

(a)(1) If you receive a demand, you must immediately notify your supervisor, who must in turn notify the appropriate Department official. Either your supervisor or the appropriate Department official must notify the Office of the General Counsel contact for your region or division for assistance with issuing the proper response.

(2) Demands for Office of Inspector General official information or testimony should be forwarded immediately to the Counsel to the Inspector General.

(b)(1) The appropriate Department official will decide whether to grant or deny the demand. Before a decision granting or denying a demand is made, the Office of the General Counsel contact for your region or division must be consulted for advice. All decisions granting or denying a demand must be in writing and must receive Office of the General Counsel concurrence prior to issuance. Absent Office of the General Counsel concurrence, a demand decision cannot be issued.

(2) The Counsel to the Inspector General will decide whether to grant or deny a demand for Office of Inspector General information and testimony.

(c) In the event that the appropriate Department official decides to deny the demand, the decision shall state that you are not authorized to provide official information or testimony and, if applicable, that you will not personally appear in response to the demand.
