
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.200 RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
###### Handling precautions.

(4)The following precautions shall be observed:

(i) Avoid damaging the cable during handling operations prior to splicing. Minor damage may change the transmission characteristics of the fibers to the extent that the cable section will have to be replaced;

(ii) The cable manufacturer's recommendations concerning pulling tension shall be observed. The maximum pulling tension for most fiber optic cable is 2669 newtons (600 pound-force);

(iii) The cable manufacturer's recommendations concerning bending radius shall be observed. Unless the cable manufacturer's recommendation is more stringent, the minimum bending radius for fiber optic cable shall be 20 times the cable diameter;

(iv) The cable manufacturer's recommendations concerning buffer tube bending radius shall be observed. Unless the cable manufacturer's recommendation is more stringent, the minimum bending radius for buffer tubes is usually between 38 millimeters (mm) (1.5 in.) and 76 mm (3.0 in.). The bending limitations on buffer tubes are intended to prevent kinking. Buffer tube kinking may cause excessive optical loss or fiber breakage; and

(v) Handle unprotected glass fibers carefully to avoid introducing flaws such as scratched or broken fibers.
