
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.200 RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
###### Equipment requirements.

(6)(i) Fiber optic splices shall be made in areas where temperature, humidity, and cleanliness can be controlled. Both fusion and mechanical splicing techniques may require a splicing vehicle equipped with a work station that will allow environmental control.

(ii) Both fusion and mechanical splicing techniques are permitted on RUS financed projects. When using the mechanical splicing technique, only RUS accepted mechanical fiber optic splice connectors can be used.

(iii) Fusion splicing machines shall be kept in proper working condition. Regular maintenance in accordance with the machine manufacturer's recommendations shall be observed.

(iv) Mechanical splicing tools shall be in conformance with the tool manufacturer's recommendations.

(v) An optical time domain reflectometer (OTDR) shall be used for testing splices. The OTDR shall be stationed at the central office or launch point for testing individual splices as they are made and for end-to-end signature tests for the fiber optic link.

(vi) An optical power meter shall be used for end-to-end cable acceptance tests.

(vii) A prerequisite for the successful completion of a fiber optic splicing endeavor is the presence of a talk circuit between the splicing technician in the splicing vehicle and the operator of the OTDR in the central office. The splicing technician and the OTDR operator shall have access to communications with each other in order to inform each other as to:

(A) Which splices meet the loss objectives;

(B) The sequence in which buffer tubes and fibers are to be selected for subsequent splicing operations; and

(C) The timing required for the performance of OTDR testing to prevent making an OTDR test at the same time a splice is being fused.
