
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.200 RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
###### Cable preparation.

(7)(i) Engineering work prints shall prescribe the cable slack needed at splice points to reach the work station inside the splicing vehicle. Consideration should be given to the slack required for future maintenance activity as well as initial construction activities. The required slack may be different for each splice point, depending on the site logistics. However, the required slack is seldom less than 15 meters (50 feet). The amount of slack actually used shall be recorded for each splice point to assist future maintenance and restoration efforts.

(ii) The splice case manufacturer's recommendations concerning the amount of cable sheath to be removed shall be followed to facilitate splicing operations. The length of the sheath opening shall be identified with a wrap of plastic tape.

(iii) If the cable contains a rip cord, the cable jacket shall be ring cut approximately 15 cm (6 in.) from the end and the 15 cm (6 in.) of cable jacket shall be removed to expose the rip cord. The rip cord shall be used to slit the jacket to the tape mark.

(iv) If the cable does not contain a rip cord, the cable jacket shall be slit using a sheath splitter. No cuts shall be made into the cable core nor shall the buffer tubes be damaged.

(v) If the cable contains an armor sheath, the outer jacket shall be opened along the slit and the jacket shall be removed exposing the armor sheath. The armor shall be separated at the seam and pulled from the cable exposing the inner jacket. The armor shall be removed making allowances for a shield bond connector. The inner sheath shall be slit using a sheath splitter or rip cord. The cable core shall not be damaged nor shall there be any damage to the buffer tubes. The jacket shall be peeled back and cut at the end of the slit. The exposed buffer tubes shall not be cut, kinked, or bent.

(vi) After the cable sheath has been removed, the binder tape shall be removed from the cable. The cable shall not be crushed or deformed.

(vii) The buffer tubes shall be unstranded one at a time. The buffer tubes shall not be kinked.

(viii) If the cable is equipped with a strength member, the strength member shall be cut to the length recommended by the splice case manufacturer.

(ix) Each buffer tube shall be inspected for kinks, cuts, and flat spots. If damage is detected, an additional length of cable jacket shall be removed and all of the buffer tubes shall be cut off at the point of damage.

(x) The cable preparation sequence shall be repeated for the other cable end.
