
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.200 RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
###### Central office cable entrance.

(4)(i) Filled cable or filled splices are not recommended for use inside central offices except in cable vault locations. Outside plant cable sheath and cable filling compound are susceptible to fire and will support combustion. Fire, smoke, and gases generated by these materials during burning are detrimental to telephone switching equipment.

(ii) As a first choice, the outside plant fiber optic cable shall be spliced to an all-dielectric fire retardant cable in a cable vault with the all-dielectric cable extending into the central office and terminating inside a fiber patch panel.

(iii) As a second choice, the outside plant cable may be spliced inside the central office if a flame retardant fiber optic splice case or a noncombustible central office splice housing equipped with organizer trays is used to contain the splice.

(iv) In cases referenced in paragraphs (f)(4)(ii) and (f)(4)(iii) of this section, as a minimum the fire retardant all-dielectric cable used to provide the connection between the cable entrance splice and the fiber patch panel shall be listed as Communication Riser Cable (Type CMR) in accordance with Sections 800-50 and 800-51(b) of the 1993 National Electrical Code.

(v) Splices inside the central office shall be made as close as practicable to the point where the outside plant cables enter the building. Except in cable vault locations, outside plant cables within the central office shall be wrapped with fireproof tape or enclosed in noncombustible conduit.
