
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.200 RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
###### Copper cable shield bond connections.

(2)(i) Cable shields shall be bonded at each splice location. Only RUS accepted cable shield bond connectors shall be used to provide bonding and grounding connections to metallic cable shields. The shield bond connector manufacturer's instructions shall be followed concerning installation and use.

(ii)(A) Shield bonding conductors shall be either stranded or braided tinned copper wire equivalent to a minimum No. 6 American Wire Gauge (AWG) and shall be RUS accepted. The conductor connections shall be tinned or of a compatible bimetallic design to avoid corrosion problems associated with dissimilar metals. The number of shield bond connectors required per pair size and gauge shall be as shown in Table 8:

(B) It is permissible to strap across the shield bond connectors of several cables with a single length of braided wire. However, both ends of the braid shall be terminated on the pedestal ground bracket to provide a bonding loop. Shield bond connection methods for individual cables are shown in Figures 13 through 15, and the bonding of several cables inside a pedestal using the bonding loop is shown in Figure 16:
