
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.370 RUS specification for seven wire galvanized steel strand.
###### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) RUS incorporates by reference ASTM A475-78, Standard Specification for Zinc-Coated Steel Wire Strand, issued May 1978. All seven wire galvanized steel strand purchased after April 1, 1990, for use on telecommunications systems financed by RUS loan funds must conform to this standard. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51 on January 19, 1990). Copies of ASTM A475-78 are available for inspection during normal business hours at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and the Rural Utilities Service, Administrative Services Division, room 0175-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, telephone 202-382-9551. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies are available from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, telephone 215-299-5400.

(b) In addition to the requirements of ASTM 475-78, all coils and reels having Class B or C coatings shall be marked with a 3-inch wide and 6-inch long deep-colored stripe, green or orange, respectively, to identify the class of galvanized coating of the strand. This marking shall be applied to the exposed convolutions of the strand in the eye of the coils and located near the midpoint on the outside layer of strand on the reels. The marking shall not cover any welded joint markings.
