
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.390 RUS specification for filled telephone cables.
###### Scope.

(a)(1) This section covers the requirements for filled telephone cables intended for direct burial installation either by trenching or by direct plowing, for underground application by placement in a duct, or for aerial installations by attachment to a support strand.

(i) The conductors are solid copper, individually insulated with an extruded solid insulating compound.

(ii) The insulated conductors are twisted into pairs which are then stranded or oscillated to form a cylindrical core.

(iii) For high frequency applications, the cable core may be separated into compartments with screening shields.

(iv) A moisture resistant filling compound is applied to the stranded conductors completely covering the insulated conductors and filling the interstices between pairs and units.

(v) The cable structure is completed by the application of suitable core wrapping material, a flooding compound, a shield or a shield/armor, and an overall plastic jacket.

(2) The number of pairs and gauge size of conductors which are used within the RUS program are provided in the following table:

(3) Screened cable, when specified, must meet all requirements of this section. The pair sizes of screened cables used within the RUS program are referenced in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.

(4) All cables sold to RUS borrowers for projects involving RUS loan funds under this section must be accepted by RUS Technical Standards Committee "A" (Telephone). For cables manufactured to the specification of this section, all design changes to an accepted design must be submitted for acceptance. RUS will be the sole authority on what constitutes a design change.

(5) Materials, manufacturing techniques, or cable designs not specifically addressed by this section may be allowed if accepted by RUS. Justification for acceptance of modified materials, manufacturing techniques, or cable designs must be provided to substantiate product utility and long-term stability and endurance.
