
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.390 RUS specification for filled telephone cables.
###### Identification of pairs and twisting of pairs.

(c)(1) The insulation must be colored to identify:

(i) The tip and ring conductor of each pair; and

(ii) Each pair in the completed cable.

(2) The colors to be used in the pairs in the 25 pair group, together with the pair numbers must be in accordance with the table specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 3.5.

(3) Positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair by marking each conductor of a pair with the color of its mate is permissible. The method of marking must be accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(4) Other methods of providing positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair may be employed if accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(5) The insulated conductors must be twisted into pairs.

(6) In order to provide sufficiently high crosstalk isolation, the pair twists must be designed to enable the cable to meet the capacitance unbalance and crosstalk loss requirements of paragraphs (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(8) of this section.

(7) The average length of pair twists in any pair in the finished cable, when measured on any 3 meter (10 foot) length, must not exceed the requirement specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 3.5.
