
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.390 RUS specification for filled telephone cables.
###### Forming of the cable core.

(d)(1) Twisted pairs must be assembled in such a way as to form a substantially cylindrical group.

(2) When desired for lay-up reasons, the basic group may be divided into two or more subgroups called units.

(3) Each group, or unit in a particular group, must be enclosed in bindings of the colors indicated for its particular pair count. The pair count, indicated by the colors of insulation, must be consecutive as indicated in paragraph (d)(6) of this section through units in a group.

(4) The filling compound must be applied to the cable core in such a way as to provide as near a completely filled core as is commercially practical.

(5) Threads and tapes used as binders must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 4.2 and 4.2.1.

(6) The colors of the bindings and their significance with respect to pair count must be as follows:

(7) The use of the white unit binder in cables of 100 pairs or less is optional.

(8) When desired for manufacturing reasons, two or more 25 pair groups may be bound together with nonhygroscopic and nonwicking threads or tapes into a super-unit. Threads or tapes must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. The group binders and the super-unit binders must be color coded such that the combination of the two binders must positively identify each 25 pair group from every other 25 pair group in the cable. Super-unit binders must be of the color shown in the following table:

(9) Color binders must not be missing for more than 90 meters (300 feet) from any 25 pair group or from any subgroup used as part of a super-unit. At any cable cross-section, no adjacent 25 pair groups and no more than one subgroup of any super-unit may have missing binders. In no case must the total number of missing binders exceed three. Missing super-unit binders must not be permitted for any distance.

(10) Any reel of cable which contains missing binders must be labeled indicating the colors and location of the binders involved. The labeling must be applied to the reel and also to the cable.
