
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.390 RUS specification for filled telephone cables.
###### Tests on 100 percent of completed cable.

(5)(i) The shield and/or armor of each length of cable must be tested for continuity in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.16.

(ii) The screen tape of each length of screened cable must be tested for continuity in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.16.

(iii) Dielectric strength between conductors and shield and/or armor must be tested to determine freedom from grounds in accordance with paragraph (k)(10)(ii) of this section.

(iv) Dielectric strength between conductors and screen tape must be tested to determine freedom from grounds in accordance with paragraph (k)(10)(iii) of this section.

(v) Each conductor in the completed cable must be tested for continuity in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.16.

(vi) Dielectric strength between conductors must be tested to insure freedom from shorts and crosses in each length of completed cable in accordance with paragraph (k)(10)(i) of this section.

(vii) Each conductor in the completed preconnectorized cable must be tested for continuity.

(viii) Each length of completed preconnectorized cable must be tested for split pairs.

(ix) The average mutual capacitance must be measured on all cables. If the average mutual capacitance for the first 100 pairs tested from randomly selected groups is between 50 and 53 nanofarad/kilometer (nF/km) (80 and 85 nanofarad/mile), the remainder of the pairs need not be tested on the 100 percent basis (See paragraph (k)(3) of this section).
