
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.397 RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
###### Types of requirements.

(b)(1) Unless otherwise indicated, the requirements listed in this section are considered to be fixed requirements.

(2) The concentrator system shall communicate with standard T1 digital transmission format at a minimum between the concentrator and central office terminals. Analog conversion functions at remote and central office terminals shall be capable of being eliminated to accommodate end-to-end digital transmission.

(3) The LC shall operate properly as an integral part of the telephone network when connected to physical or carrier derived circuits and central offices meeting RUS specifications and other generally accepted telecommunications practices, such as Bellcore documents TR-NWT-000303, Integrated Digital Loop Carrier System Generic Requirements, Objectives and Interface; TR-TSY-000008, Digital Interface between the SLC 96 Digital Loop Carrier System and a Local Digital Switch; and TR-TSY-000057, Functional Criteria for Digital Loop Carrier Systems.

(4) For RUS acceptance consideration of a LC, the manufacturer must certify and demonstrate that all requirements specified in this section are available and in compliance with this section.

(5) Certain requirements are included in this section for features which may not be needed for every application. Such features are identifiable by the inclusion in the requirements of some such phrase as "when specified by the owner" or "as specified by the owner." In some cases where an optional feature will not be required by an owner, either now or in the future, a system which does not provide this feature shall be considered to be in compliance with the specification for the specific installation under consideration, but not in compliance with the entire specification.

(6) The owner may properly request bids from any supplier of an RUS accepted LC whose system provides all the features which will be required for a specific installation.

(7) When required by the owner, the supplier shall state compliance to the Carrier Serving Area (CSA) requirements, as stated in Bell Communications Research (Bellcore) Standard TR-TSY-000057, Functional Criteria for Digital Loop Carrier Systems.
