
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.397 RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
###### Electrical protection,Surge protection.

(j)-(1)(i) Adequate electrical protection of line concentrator equipment shall be included in the design of the system. The characteristics and application of protection devices must be such that they enable the line concentrator equipment to withstand, without damage or excessive protector maintenance, the dielectric stresses and currents that are produced in line-to-ground and tip-to-ring circuits through the equipment as a result of induced or conducted lightning or power system fault-related surges. All wire terminals connected to outside plant wire or cable pairs shall be protected from voltage and current surges.

(ii) Equipment must pass laboratory tests, simulating a hostile electrical environment, before being placed in the field for the purpose of obtaining field experience. For acceptance consideration RUS requires manufacturers to submit recently completed results (within 90 days of submittal) of data obtained from the prescribed testing. Manufacturers are expected to detail how data and tests were conducted. There are five basic types of laboratory tests which must be applied to exposed terminals in an effort to determine if the equipment will survive. Figure 2 of this section, Summary of Electrical Requirements and Tests, identifies the tests and their application as follows:

(iii) Electrical protection requirements for line concentrator equipment can be summarized briefly as follows:

(A) Current surge tests simulate the stress to which a relatively low impedance path may be subjected before main frame protectors break down. Paths with a 100 Hz impedance of 50 ohms or less shall be subjected to current surges, employing a 10 x 1000 microsecond waveshape as defined in Figure 3 of this section, Surge Waveshape. For the purpose of determining this impedance, arresters which are mounted within the equipment are to be considered zero impedance. The crest current shall not exceed 500A; however, depending on the impedance of the test specimen this value of current may be lower. The crest current through the sample, multiplied by the sample's 100 Hz impedance, shall not exceed 1000 V. Where sample impedance is less than 2 ohms, peak current shall be limited to 500A as shown in Figure 4 of this section, Current Surge Tests. Figures 3 and 4 follow:

(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) current carrying tests shall be applied to simulate an ac power fault which is conducted to the unit over the cable pairs. The test shall be limited to 10 amperes Root Mean Square (rms) of 60 Hz ac for a period of 11 cycles (0.1835 seconds) and shall be applied longitudinally from line to ground.

(C) AC power service surge voltage tests shall be applied to the power input terminals of ac powered devices to simulate switching surges or lightning-induced transients on the ac power system. The test shall employ a 1.2 x 50 microsecond waveshape with a crest voltage of 2500 V. Communications line protectors may be left in place for these tests.

(D) Voltage surge tests which simulate the voltage stress to which a relatively high impedance path may be subjected before primary protectors break down and protect the circuit. To ensure coordination with the primary protection while reducing testing to the minimum, voltage surge tests shall be conducted at a 1000 volts with primary arresters removed for devices protected by carbon blocks, or the + 3 sigma dc breakdown voltage of other primary arresters. Surge waveshape should be 10 x 1000 microseconds.

(E) Arrester response delay tests are designed to stress the equipment in a manner similar to that caused by the delayed breakdown of gap type arresters when subjected to rapidly rising voltages. Arresters shall be removed for these tests, the peak surge voltage shall be the + 3 sigma breakdown voltage of the arrester in question on a voltage rising at 100 V per microsecond, and the time for the surge to decay to half voltage shall equal at least the delay time of the tube as explained in Figure 5 of this section, Arrester Response Delay Time as follows:

(iv) Tests shall be conducted in the following sequence. As not all tests are required in every application, non-applicable tests should be omitted:

(A) Current Impulse Test;

(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) Current Carrying Tests;

(C) AC Power Service Impulse Voltage Test;

(D) Voltage Impulse Test; and

(E) Arrester Response Delay Time Test.

(v) A minimum of five applications of each polarity for the surge tests and three for the 60 Hz Current Carrying Tests are the minimum required. All tests shall be conducted with not more than 1 minute between consecutive applications in each series of three or five applications to a specific configuration so that heating effects will be cumulative. See Figure 6 of this section, 60 Hz Current Surge Tests as follows:

(vi) Tests shall be applied between each of the following terminal combinations for all line operating conditions:

(A) Line tip to ring;

(B) Line ring to ground;

(C) Line tip to ground; and

(D) Line tip and ring tied together to ground.
