
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.397 RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
###### Detailed requirements for direct digital connections.

(20)(i) This paragraph (h)(20) covers the detailed requirements for the provision of interface units which will permit direct digital connection between the host central office and line concentrator subscriber terminals over digital facilities. The digital transmission system shall be compatible with T1 type span lines using a DS1 interface and other digital interfaces that may be specified by the owner. The RUS specification for the T1 span line equipment is PE-60. Other span line techniques may also be used. Diverse span line routing may be used when specified by the owner.

(ii) The output of a digital-to-digital port shall be Pulse Code Modulation (PCM), encoded in eight-bit words using the mu-255 encoding law and D3 encoding format, and arranged to interface with a T1 span line.

(iii) Signaling shall be by means of Multifrequency (MF) or Dual Pulsing (DP) and the system which is inherent in the A and B bits of the D3 format. In the case where A and B bits are not used for signaling or system control, these bits shall only be used for normal voice and data transmission.

(iv) When a direct digital interface between the span line and the host central office equipment is to be implemented, the following requirements shall be met:

(A) The span line shall be terminated in a central office as a minimum a DS1 (1.544Mb/s) shall be provided;

(B) The digital central office equipment shall be programmed to support the operation of the digital port with the line concentrator subscriber terminal;

(C) The line concentrator subscriber terminal used with a direct digital interface shall be interchangeable with the subscriber terminal used with a central office terminal.
