
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.397 RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
###### Distributing frame.

(10)(i) The line concentrator terminal equipment located at the central office shall be protected by the central office main distribution frame. The bidder may supply additional protection capability as appropriate. All protection devices (new or existing) shall be arranged to operate in a coordinated manner to protect equipment, limit surge currents, and protect personnel.

(ii) The distributing frame shall provide terminals for terminating all incoming cable pairs. Arresters shall be provided for all incoming cable pairs, or for a smaller number of pairs if specified.

(iii) The current carrying capacity of each arrester and its associated mounting shall coordinate with a #22 gauge copper conductor without causing a self-sustaining fire or permanently damaging other arrester positions. Where all cable pairs entering the housing are #24 gauge or finer, the arresters and mountings need only coordinate with #24 gauge cable conductors.

(iv) Remote terminal protectors may be mounted and arranged so that outside cable pairs may be terminated on the left or bottom side of protectors (when facing the vertical side of the MDF) or on the back surface of the protectors. Means for easy identification of pairs shall be provided.

(v) Protectors shall have a "dead front" (either insulated or grounded) where live metal parts are not readily accessible.

(vi) Protectors shall be provided with an accessible terminal of each incoming conductor which is suitable for the attachment of a temporary test lead. They shall also be constructed so that auxiliary test fixtures may be applied to open and test the subscriber's circuit in either direction. Terminals shall be suitable for wire wrapped connections or connectorized.

(vii) If specified, each protector group shall be furnished with a factory assembled tip cable for splicing to the outside cable; the tip cable shall be 20 feet (6.1 m) in length, unless otherwise specified. Tip cable used shall be RUS accepted.

(viii) Protector makes and types used shall be RUS accepted.
