
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.397 RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
###### Drawings and printed material.

(p)(1) The bidder shall supply instructional material for each line concentrator system involved at the time of delivery of the equipment. It is not the intent of this section to require system documentation necessary for the repair of individual circuit boards.

(2) Three complete sets of legible drawings shall be provided for each central office to be accessed. Each set shall include all of the following:

(i) Drawings of major equipment items such as frames, with the location of major component items of equipment shown therein;

(ii) Wiring diagrams indicating the specific method of wiring used on each item of equipment and interconnection wiring between items of equipment;

(iii) Maintenance drawings covering each equipment item that contains replaceable parts, appropriately identifying each part by name and part number; and

(iv) Job drawings including all drawings that are individual to the particular line concentrator involved such as mainframe, power equipment, etc.

(3) The following information shall also be furnished:

(i) A complete index of required drawings;

(ii) An explanation of electrical principles of operation of overall concentrator system;

(iii) A list of tests which can be made with each piece of test equipment furnished and an explanation of the method of making each test;

(iv) A sample of each form recommended for use in keeping records;

(v) The criteria for analyzing results of tests and determining appropriate corrective action;

(vi) A set of general notes on methods of isolating equipment faults to specific printed circuit cards in the equipment;

(vii) A list of typical troubles which might be encountered, together with general indications as to probable location of each trouble; and

(viii) All special line concentrator system grounding requirements.

(4) When installation is to be done by the bidder a complete set of drawings shall be provided by the owner, such as floor plans, lighting, grounding and ac power access.
