
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.401 Scope.

(a) Acceptance tests outlined in §§ 1755.400 through 1755.407 are applicable to plant constructed by contract or force account. This testing standard provides for the following:

(1) Specific types of tests or measurements for the different types of telecommunications plant and equipment;

(2) The method of measurement and types of measuring equipment;

(3) The expected results and tolerances permitted to meet the acceptable standards and objectives;

(4) Suggested formats for recording the results of the measurements and tests; and

(5) Some probable causes of nonconformance and methods for corrective action, where possible.

(b) Alternative methods of measurements that provide suitable alternative results shall be permitted with the concurrence of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).

(c) For the purpose of this testing standard, a "measurement" shall be defined as an evaluation where quantitative data is obtained (e.g., resistance in ohms, structural return loss in decibels (dB), etc.) and a "test" shall be defined as an evaluation where no quantitative data is obtained (e.g., a check mark indicating conformance is usually the result of the test).

(d) The sequence of tests and measurements described in this standard have been prepared as a guide. Variations from the sequence may be necessary on an individual application basis.

(e) There is some overlap in the methods of testing shown; also, the extent of each phase of testing may vary on an individual basis. The borrower shall determine the overall plan of testing, the need and extent of testing, and the responsibility for each phase of testing.
