
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.397 RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
###### Joint inspection requirements.

(8)(i) The bidder shall notify the owner in writing at least one week before the date the complete system will be ready for inspection and tests. A joint inspection shall be made by the bidder and the owner (or owner's engineer) to determine that the equipment installation is acceptable. The inspection shall include physical inspection, a review of acceptance test data, operational tests, and sample measurements.

(A) The owner shall review the acceptance test data and compare it to the requirements of this section.

(B) Sample measurements shall be made on all systems installed under this contract. Test methods should follow procedures described in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(C) A check shall be made of measured test point and jack readings for compliance with the manufacturer's specifications. This applies also to channels, terminals, carrier frequency repefault locating circuits.

(ii) In the event that the measured data or operational tests show that equipment fails to meet the requirements quirements of this section, the deficiencies are to be resolved as set forth in Article II of the 397 Special Equipment Contract. (Copies are available from RUS, room 0174, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500.) The reports of the bidder and the owner shall be detailed as to deficiencies, causes, corrective action necessary, corrective action to be taken, completion time, etc.
