
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Method of measurement.

(2)(i) The IR measurement shall be made between each conductor and all other conductors, sheath, shield and/or shield/armor, and/or support wire electrically connected together and to the main distributing frame (MDF) ground. The measurement shall be made from the central office with the entire length of the cable under test and, where used with all protectors and load coils connected. For COs containing solid state arresters, the solid state arresters shall be removed before making the IR measurements. Field mounted voice frequency repeaters, where used, may be left connected for the IR test but all carrier frequency equipment, including carrier repeaters and terminals, shall be disconnected. Pairs used to feed power remote from the CO shall have the power disconnected and the tip and ring conductors shall be opened before making IR tests. All conductors shall be opened at the far end of the cable being measured.

(ii) IR tests are normally made from the MDF with all CO equipment disconnected at the MDF, but this test may be made on new cables at field locations before they are spliced to existing cables. The method of measurement shall be as shown in Figure 3 as follows:

(iii) If the IR of the conductor cannot be measured because of breakdown of lightning arresters by the test voltage, the arrester units shall be removed and the conductor IR retested. If the IR then meets the minimum requirements, the conductor will be considered satisfactory. Immediately following the IR tests, all arrester units which have been removed shall be reinstalled.
