
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Probable causes for nonconformance.

(6)(i) When an IR measurement is below 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km), the cable or wire temperature at the time of testing must then be taken into consideration. If this temperature is well above 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C), the measurement shall be disregarded and the cable or wire shall be remeasured at a time when the temperature is approximately 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C). If the result is then 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) or greater, the cable or wire shall be considered satisfactory.

(ii) Should the cable or wire fail to meet the 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) requirement when the temperature is known to be approximately 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) there is not yet justification for rejection of the cable or wire. Protectors, lightning arresters, etc., may be a source of low insulation resistance. These devices shall be removed from the cable or wire and the cable or wire IR measurement shall be repeated. If the result is acceptable, the cable or wire shall be considered acceptable. The removed devices which caused the low insulation resistance value shall be identified and replaced, if found defective.

(iii) When the cable or wire alone is still found to be below the 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) requirement after completing the steps in paragraph (c)(6)(i) and/or paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, the test shall be repeated to measure the cable or wire in sections to isolate the piece(s) of cable or wire responsible. The cable or wire section(s) that is found to be below the 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) requirement shall be either repaired in accordance with the cable or wire manufacturer's recommended procedure or shall be replaced as directed by the borrower.
