
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Applicable results.

(6)(i) The measured dc loop resistance shall be within +/-5% of the calculated dc loop resistance when corrected for temperature.

(ii) The calculated dc loop resistance is computed as follows:

(A) Multiply the length of each different gauge by the applicable resistance per unit length as shown in Table 3 as follows:

(B) Add the individual resistances for each gauge to give the total calculated dc loop resistance at a temperature of 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C).

(C) Correct the total calculated dc loop resistance at the temperature of 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) to the measurement temperature by the following formulae:

(D) Compare the calculated dc loop resistance at the measurement temperature to the measured dc loop resistance to determine compliance with the requirement specified in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section.

(iii) Resistance varies directly with temperature change. For copper conductor cables, the dc resistance changes by +/-1% for every +/-5 &#xB0;F (2.8 &#xB0;C) change in temperature from 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C).

(iv) The dc resistance unbalance between the individual conductors of a pair shall not exceed that value which will result in a circuit balance of less than 60 dB when computed from noise measurements as described in paragraph (e) of this section. It is impractical to establish a precise limit for overall circuit dc resistance unbalance due to the factors controlling its contribution to circuit noise. These factors include location of the resistance unbalance in relation to a low impedance path to ground (close to the central office) and the magnitude of unbalance in short lengths of cable making up the total circuit length. The objective is to obtain the minimum unbalance throughout the entire circuit when it is ascertained through noise measurements that dc resistance unbalance may be contributing to poor cable balance.

(v) Pairs with poor noise balance may be improved by reversing tip and ring conductors of pairs at cable splices. Where dc resistance unbalances are systematic over the total trunk circuit or loop circuit length, tip and ring reversals may be made at frequent intervals. Where the unbalances are concentrated in a shorter section of cable, only one tip and ring reversal should be required. Concentrated dc resistance unbalance produces maximum circuit noise when located adjacent to the central office. Concentrated dc resistance unbalance will contribute to overall circuit noise at a point approximately two-thirds () of the distance to the subscriber. All deliberate tip and ring reversals shall be tagged and identified to prevent plant personnel from removing the reversals when resplicing these connections in the future. The number of tip and ring reversals shall be held to a minimum.

(vi) A systematic dc resistance unbalance can sometimes be accompanied by other cable parameters that are marginal. Among these are pair-to-pair capacitance unbalance, capacitance unbalance-to-ground, and 150 kilohertz (kHz) crosstalk loss. Engineering judgment has to be applied in each case. Rejection of cable for excessive dc resistance unbalance shall only apply to a single reel length, or shorter.
