
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurement.

(d)(1) When specified by the borrower, dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurements shall be made on all cable pairs used as trunk circuits. The dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurements shall be made between CO locations. Measurements shall include all components of the cable path.

(2) Dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurements shall be made on all cable pairs used as subscriber loop circuits when:

(i) Specified by the borrower;

(ii) A large number of long loops terminate at one location (similar to trunk circuits); or

(iii) Circuit balance is less than 60 dB when computed from noise measurements as described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) Dc resistance unbalance is controlled to the maximum possible degree by the cable specification. Allowable random unbalance is specified between tip and ring conductors within each reel. Further random patterns should occur when the cable conductor size changes. Cable meeting the unbalance requirements of the cable specification may under some conditions result in unacceptable noise levels as discussed in paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.
