
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Applicable results.

(4)(i) For all new insulated cable or wire facilities, the expected IR levels are normally greater than 1,000 to 2,000 megohm-mile (1,609 to 3,218 megohm-km). A value of 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) shall be the minimum acceptable value of IR. IR varies inversely with the length and the temperature.

(ii) The megohm-mile (megohm-km) value for a conductor may be computed by multiplying the actual scale reading in megohms on the test set by the length in miles (km) of the conductor under test.

(iii) The objective insulation resistance may be determined by dividing 500 by the length in miles (805 by the length in km) of the cable or wire conductor being tested. The resulting value shall be the minimum acceptable meter scale reading in megohms.

(iv) Due to the differences between various insulating materials and filling compounds used in manufacturing cable or wire, it is impractical to provide simple factors to predict the magnitude of variation in insulation resistance due to temperature. The variation can, however, be substantial for wide excursions in temperature from the ambient temperature of 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C).

(v) Borrowers should be certain that tip and ring IR measurements of each pair are approximately the same. Borrowers should also be certain that IR measurements are similar for cable or wire sections of similar length and cable or wire type. If some pairs measure significantly lower, borrowers should attempt to improve these pairs in accordance with cable manufacturer's recommendations.
