
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### 3,1,2

() The total calculated insertion loss is computed by adding the individual losses determined in paragraphs (e)(6)(i)(D)() and (e)(6)(i)(D)() of this section.

(E) For nonloaded cables, the calculated loss at each desired frequency shall be computed by multiplying the length in miles (km) of each different gauge by the applicable dB/mile (dB/km) value shown in Table 6 and then adding the individual losses for each gauge to determine the total calculated insertion loss for the nonloaded loop.

(F) The attenuation information in Tables 4, 5, and 6 are based on a cable temperature of 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C). Insertion loss varies directly with temperature. To convert measured losses for loaded cables to a different temperature, use the following value for copper conductors: For each +/-5 &#xB0;F (+/-2.8 &#xB0;C) change in the temperature from 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C), change the insertion loss at any frequency by +/-1%. To convert measured losses for nonloaded cables to a different temperature, use the following value for copper conductors: For each +/-10 &#xB0;F (+/-5.6 &#xB0;C) change in the temperature from 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C), change the insertion loss at any frequency by +/-1%. Tables 4, 5, and 6 are as follows:

(G) For loaded subscriber loops, the 1 kHz loss shall be approximately 0.45 dB per 100 ohms of measured dc loop resistance. This loss shall be the measured loss less the net gain of any voice frequency repeaters in the circuit. Testing shall also be conducted to verify that the loss increases gradually as the frequency increases. The loss on H88 loaded loops should be down only slightly at 2.8 kHz but drop rapidly above 2.8 kHz. The loss on D66 loaded loops shall be fairly constant to about 3.4 kHz and there shall be good response at 4.0 kHz. When voice frequency repeaters are in the circuit there will be some frequency weighting in the build-out network and the loss at the higher frequencies will be greater than for nonrepeatered loops.

(H) For nonloaded subscriber loops, the 1 kHz loss shall be approximately 0.9 dB per 100 ohms of measured dc loop resistance. Testing shall also be conducted to verify that the loss is approximately a straight line function with no abrupt changes. The 3 kHz loss should be approximately 70% higher than the 1 kHz loss.
