
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Subscriber loop measurement (loop checking).

(e)(1) When specified by the borrower, insertion loss and noise measurements shall be performed on subscriber loops after connection of a line circuit to the loop by the one person method using loop checking equipment from the customer access location. For this method, the central office should be equipped with a 900 ohm plus two microfarad quiet termination and a milliwatt generator having the required test frequencies; or a portable milliwatt generator having the desired frequencies may be used, especially, where several small offices are involved.

(2) At a minimum, insertion loss and frequency response of subscriber loop plant shall be measured at 1,000, 1,700, 2,300, and 2,800 Hertz (Hz). When additional testing frequencies are desired, the additional frequencies shall be specified in the applicable construction contract.

(3) Measurements of insertion loss and noise shall be made on five percent or more of the pairs. A minimum of five pairs shall be tested on each route. Pairs shall be selected on a random basis with greater consideration in the selection given to the longer loops. Consideration shall be given to measuring a large percentage, up to 100 percent, of all loops.
