
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### One-person open circuit measurement (subscriber loops).

(f)(1) When specified by the borrower, open circuit measurements shall be made on all loaded and nonloaded subscriber loops upon completion of the cable work to verify that the plant is free from major impedance irregularities.

(2) For loaded loops, open circuit measurements shall be made using one of the following methods:

(i) Impedance or pulse return pattern, with cable pair trace compared to that of an artificial line of the same length and gauge. For best results, a level tracer or fault locator with dual trace capability is required;

(ii) Return loss using a level tracer, with cable pair compared to an artificial line of the same length and gauge connected in lieu of a Precision Balance Network (PBN). This method can be made with level tracers having only single trace capability; or

(iii) Open circuit structural return loss using a level tracer. This method can be made with level tracer having only single trace capability.

(3) Of the three methods suggested for loaded loops, the method specified in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section is the preferred method because it can yield both qualitative and quantitative results. The methods specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(iii) of this section can be used as trouble shooting tools should irregularities be found during testing.

(4) For nonloaded loops, open circuit measurements shall be made using the method specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.
