
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Applicable results.

(7)(i) For loaded and nonloaded loops, the two traces in the pulse return pattern or impedance method (paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section) shall be essentially identical. The degree of comparison required of the two traces is to be determined by experience.

(ii) For loaded loops, results for return loss measurements using a level tracer, with artificial line, in lieu of a PBN (paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section) shall meet the following requirements:

(A) For D66 and H88 loaded cables the structural return loss (SRL) values shall range between 28 and 39 dB, respectively, at the critical frequency of structural return loss (CFSRL) within the pass band of the loading system being used. The minimum SRL value for uniform gauge shall be 25 dB CFSRL. These SRL values apply for loaded cables of uniform gauge for the entire length of the subscriber loop circuit. Subscriber loop circuits shall meet the loading spacing deviations and the cable mutual capacitance requirements in the applicable RUS cable specifications;

(B) For mixed gauge loaded cables the SRL values shall be 25 and 27 dB CFSRL, respectively, and the minimum SRL value shall be 22 dB CFSRL; and

(C) The two traces in the pulse return pattern should be essentially identical. The degree of comparison required of the two traces is determined by experience.

(iii) For loaded loops, the results of open circuit structural return loss measurements using a level tracer (paragraph (f)(5)(iii) of this section) shall meet the following requirements. For D66 and H88 loaded cables with uniform or mixed gauges, the worst value allowed for measured open circuit structural return loss between 1,000-3,500 Hz and 1,000-3,000 Hz, respectively, shall be approximately 0.9 dB (round trip) for each 100 ohms outside plant dc loop resistance including the resistance of the load coils. The value of 0.9 dB per 100 ohms for the round trip loss remains reasonably accurate as long as:

(A) The subscriber end section of the loaded pair under test is approximately 2,250 ft (685 m) for D66 loading or 3,000 ft (914 m) for H88 loading in length; and

(B) The one-way 1,000 Hz loss does not exceed 10 dB.

(iv) For loaded loops, the measured value of open circuit structural return loss can only be as accurate as the degree to which the dc loop resistance of the loaded pair under test is known. Most accurate results shall be obtained when the dc loop resistance is known by actual measurements as described in paragraph (d) of this section. Furthermore, where the dc loop resistance is measured at the same time as the open circuit structural return loss, no correction for temperature is needed because the loss is directly proportional to the loop resistance. Where it is not practical to measure the dc loop resistance, it shall be calculated and corrected for temperature as specified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section. When measuring existing plant, care shall be taken to verify the accuracy of the records, if they are used for the calculation of the dc loop resistance. For buried plant, the temperature correction shall be based at the normal depth of the cable in the ground. (Temperature can be measured by boring a hole to cable depth with a ground rod, placing a thermometer in the ground at the cable depth, and taking and averaging several readings during the course of the resistance measurements.) For aerial cable it shall be based on the temperature inside the cable sheath.

(v) For loaded loops, the best correlation between the measured and the expected results shall be obtained when the cable is of one gauge, one size, and the far end section is approximately 2,250 ft (685 m) for D66 loading or 3,000 ft (914 m) for H88 loading. Mixing gauges and cable sizes will result in undesirable small reflections whose frequency characteristics and magnitude cannot be accurately predicted. In subscriber loop applications, cable gauge may be somewhat uniform but the cable pair size most likely will not be uniform as cable pair sizes taper off toward the customer access location and a downward adjustment of 1 dB of the allowed value shall be acceptable. "Long" end sections (as defined in TE&CM Section 424, "Guideline for Telecommunications Subscriber Loop Plant") lower the expected value, a further downward adjustment of 3 dB in the allowed value shall be acceptable.

(vi) For loaded loops, the limiting factor when making open circuit structural return loss measurements is when the 1,000 Hz one-way loss of the loaded cable pair under test becomes 10 dB or greater; it becomes difficult to detect the presence of irregularities beyond the 10 dB point on the loop. To overcome this difficulty, loaded loops having a one-way loss at 1,000 Hz greater than 10 dB shall be opened at some convenient point (such as a pedestal or ready access enclosure) and loss measurements at the individual portions measuring less than 10 dB one-way shall be made separately. When field mounted voice frequency repeaters are used, the measurement shall be made at the repeater location in both directions.
