
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.403 Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
###### Applicable results.

(4)(i) The highest frequency to be measured is determined by the type of carrier system. For T1 type carrier, the highest frequency is normally 772 kHz. For T1C type carrier, the highest frequency is normally 1576 kHz. The highest frequency to be measured for station carrier is 140 kHz.

(ii) The measured insertion loss of the cable shall be within +/-10% of the calculated loss in dB when the loss is corrected for temperature.

(iii) The calculated insertion loss is computed as follows:

(A) Multiply the length of each different gauge by the applicable dB per unit length as shown in Table 7 or 8 as follows:

(B) Add the individual losses for each gauge to give the total calculated insertion loss at a temperature of 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C);

(C) Correct the total calculated insertion loss at the temperature of 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) to the measurement temperature by the following formulae:

(D) Compare the calculated insertion loss at the measurement temperature to the measured insertion loss to determine compliance with the requirement specified in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section. (Attenuation varies directly with temperature. For each +/-10 &#xB0;F (5.6 &#xB0;C) change in temperature increase or decrease the attenuation by +/-1%.)

(iv) If the measured value exceeds the +/-10% allowable variation, the cause shall be determined and corrective action shall be taken to remedy the problem.
