
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.405 Voiceband data transmission measurements.
###### Signal-to-intermodulation distortion (S/IMD) measurement.

(c)(1) When specified by the borrower, S/IMD measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.

(2) S/IMD is a measure of the distortion produced by extraneous frequency cross products, known as intermodulation products, when a multi-tone tone signal is applied to a system.

(3) Intermodulation distortion (IMD) is caused by system nonlinearities acting upon the harmonic frequencies produced from an input of multiple tones. The products resulting from IMD can be more damaging than noise in terms of producing data transmission errors.

(4) IMD is measured as a signal to distortion ratio and is expressed as the logarithmic ratio in dB of the composite power of four resulting test frequencies to the total power of specific higher order distortion products that are produced. The higher order products are measured at both the 2nd order and 3rd order and are designated R2 and R3, respectively. The four frequency testing for IMD is produced with four tones of 857, 863, 1,372, and 1,388 Hz input at a composite power level of -13 dBm0.
