
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.405 Voiceband data transmission measurements.
###### Method of measurement.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(3)The S/CNN measurement shall be made using a 1,004 Hz holding tone at -13 dBm0 (decibels relative to one milliwatt, referred to a zero transmission level point) and performed in accordance with American National Standards Institute (ANSI) T1.506-1990, American National Standard for Telecommunications-Network Performance-Transmission Specifications for Switched Exchange Access Network including supplement ANSI T1.506a-1992, and American National Standards Institute/Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (ANSI/IEEE) 743-1984, IEEE Standard Methods and Equipment for Measuring the Transmission Characteristics of Analog Voice Frequency Circuits. The ANSI T1.506-1990, American National Standard for Telecommunications-Network Performance-Transmission Specifications for Switched Exchange Access Network is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI T1.506-1990 are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies are available from ANSI, Customer Service, 11 West 42nd Street, New York, New York 10036, telephone number (212) 642-4900. The ANSI/IEEE 743-1984, IEEE Standard Methods and Equipment for Measuring the Transmission Characteristics of Analog Voice Frequency Circuits is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI/IEEE 743-1984 are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration. Copies are available from ANSI, Customer Service, 11 West 42nd Street, New York, New York 10036, telephone number (212) 642-4900.
