
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.405 Voiceband data transmission measurements.
###### Phase jitter (PJ) measurement.

(f)(1) When specified by the borrower, PJ measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.

(2) PJ is any fluctuation in the zero crossings of a fixed tone signal (usually 1,004 Hz) from their nominal position in time within the voiceband. PJ is expressed in terms of either degrees peak-to-peak (&#xB0; p-p) or in terms of a Unit Interval (UI). One UI is equal to 360&#xB0; p-p.

(3) PJ measurements are typically performed in two nominal frequency bands. The frequency bands are 20-300 Hz band and either the 2-300 Hz band or the 4-300 Hz band. The 20-300 Hz band is important to all phase-detecting modems. The 4-300 Hz band or the 2-300 Hz band is important for modems employing echo canceling capabilities.

(4) Phase jitter can affect the error performance of voiceband data modems that use phase detection techniques. The measurement of phase jitter indicates the total effect on the holding tone of incidental phase modulation and other sources including quantizing and message noise, impulse noise, phase hits, additive tones such as single-frequency interference, and digital timing jitter.
