
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.406 Shield or armor ground resistance measurements.
###### Applicable results.

(d)(1) For all new copper cable and wire facilities and all new fiber optic cable facilities, the shield or armor ground resistance levels normally exceed 1 megohm-mile (1.6 megohm-km) at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C). A value of 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) shall be the minimum acceptable value of the shield or armor ground resistance.

(2) Shield or armor ground resistance varies inversely with length and temperature. In addition other factors which may affect readings could be soil conditions, faulty test equipment and incorrect test procedures.

(3) For the resistance test method and dc bridge type megohmmeter, the ohm-mile (ohm-km) value for the shield or armor ground resistance shall be computed by multiplying the actual scale reading in ohms on the test set by the length in miles (km) of the cable or wire under test.

(4)(i) The objective shield or armor ground resistance may be determined by dividing 100,000 by the length in miles (161,000 by the length in km) of the cable or wire under test. The resulting value is the minimum acceptable meter scale reading in ohms. Examples for paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section are as follows:

(ii) Since the 33,333 ohms (32,857 ohms) is the minimum acceptable meter scale reading and the meter scale reading was 75,000 ohms, the cable is considered to have met the 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) requirement.

(5) Due to the differences between various jacketing materials used in manufacturing cable or wire and to varying soil conditions, it is impractical to provide simple factors to predict the magnitude of variation in shield or armor to ground resistance due to temperature. The variations can, however, be substantial for wide excursions in temperature from the ambient temperature of 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C).
