
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.406 Shield or armor ground resistance measurements.
###### Probable causes for nonconformance.

(f)(1) When results of resistance measurements are below the 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) requirement at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C), the jacket temperature, soil conditions, test equipment and method shall be reviewed before the cable or wire is considered a failure. If the temperature is approximately 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and soil conditions are acceptable, and a reading of less than 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) is indicated, check the calibration of the equipment; as well as, the test method. If the equipment was found to be out of calibration, recalibrate the equipment and remeasure the cable or wire. If the temperature was 86 &#xB0;F (30 &#xB0;C) or higher, the cable or wire shall be remeasured at a time when the temperature is approximately 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C). If the test was performed in unusually wet soil, the cable or wire shall be retested after the soil has reached normal conditions. If after completion of the above steps, the resistance value of 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) or greater is obtained, the cable or wire shall be considered acceptable.

(2) When the resistance value of the cable or wire is still found to be below 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) requirement after completion of the steps listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the fault shall be isolated by performing shield or armor ground resistance measurements on individual cable or wire sections.

(3) Once the fault or faults have been isolated, the cable or wire jacket shall be repaired in accordance with ยง 1755.200, RUS Standard for Splicing Copper and Fiber Optic Cables or the entire cable or wire section may be replaced at the request of the borrower.
