
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.501 Definitions applicable to §§ 1755.501 through 1755.510.
###### Demarcation point (DP).

As defined in the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules in 47 CFR part 68: The point of demarcation or interconnection between telecommunications company communications facilities and terminal equipment, protective apparatus, or wiring at a subscriber's premises. Carrier-installed facilities at, or constituting, the demarcation point shall consist of wire or a jack conforming to subpart F of 47 CFR part 68. "Premises" as used herein generally means a dwelling unit, other building or a legal unit of real property such as a lot on which a dwelling unit is located, as determined by the telecommunications company's reasonable and nondiscriminatory standard operating practices. The "minimum point of entry" as used herein shall be either the closest practicable point to where the wiring crosses a property line or the closest practicable point to where the wiring enters a multiunit building or buildings. The telecommunications company's reasonable and nondiscriminatory standard operating practices shall determine which shall apply. The telecommunications company is not precluded from establishing reasonable clarifications of multiunit premises for determining which shall apply. Multiunit premises include, but are not limited to, residential, commercial, shopping center, and campus situations.
