
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.501 Definitions applicable to §§ 1755.501 through 1755.510.
###### Multiunit installations.

(2)(i) In multiunit premises existing as of August 13, 1990, the demarcation point shall be determined in accordance with the local carrier's reasonable and nondiscriminatory standard operating practices. Provided, however, that where there are multiple demarcation points within the multiunit premises, a demarcation point for a customer shall not be further inside the customer's premises than a point 12 in. (305 mm) from where the wiring enters the customer's premises.

(ii) In multiunit premises in which wiring is installed after August 13, 1990, including additions, modifications, and rearrangements of wiring existing prior to that date, the telecommunications company may establish a reasonable and nondiscriminatory practice of placing the demarcation point at the minimum point of entry. If the telecommunications company does not elect to establish a practice of placing the demarcation point at the minimum point of entry, the multiunit premises owner shall determine the location of the demarcation point or points. The multiunit premises owner shall determine whether there shall be a single demarcation point for all customers or separate such locations for each customer. Provided, however, that where there are multiple demarcation points within the multiunit premises, a demarcation point for a customer shall not be further inside the customer's premises than a point 12 in. (305 mm) from where the wiring enters the customer's premises.
