
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.501 Definitions applicable to §§ 1755.501 through 1755.510.
###### Manufactured home.,NEC,National Electrical Code

As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;: A factory-assembled structure or structures that bears a label identifying it as a manufactured home that is transportable in one or more sections, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation where connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electric systems contained therein. Unless otherwise indicated, the term "mobile home" includes manufactured homes. Fine Print Note (FPN) No. 1: See the applicable building code for definition of the term permanent foundation. FPN No. 2: See 24 CFR part 3280, Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development for additional information on the definition. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the&#xAE;, Copyright1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
