
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.503 General.
###### NEC

(j) NIDs, BETs, and fused primary station protectors shall be installed and grounded to meet the requirements of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, or local laws or ordinances, whichever are more stringent.

(k) Battery polarity and conductor identification shall be maintained throughout the system as indicated on construction drawings 815 and 815-1 contained in § 1755.510. Color codes and other means of conductor identification of buried and aerial service wires shall conform to the requirements of this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510.

(l) All materials for which RUS makes acceptance determinations, such as service wires and cables, ground rods, ground rod clamps, etc., used in service entrance installations shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted. Borrowers shall require contractors to obtain the borrower's approval before RUS technically accepted materials are to be used in service entrance installations. Borrower's shall also ensure that the cost of the RUS technically accepted materials are at least 6 percent less than the cost of equivalent RUS accepted materials, as specified in "Buy American" Requirement of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938, as amended (7 U.S.C. 903 note). Materials used in service entrance installations which are of the type which RUS does not make acceptance determinations shall be of a suitable quality for their intended application as determined by the RUS borrower or the engineer delegated by the RUS borrower.

(m) On completion of an installation, borrowers shall require the installer to make all applicable tests required by §§ 1755.400 through 1755.407, RUS standard for acceptance tests and measurements of telecommunications plant.
