
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.503 General.
###### NEC,National Electrical Code,NEC,NEC,NEC,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.,NEC,NEC,NEC

(c) The requirements provided in this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510 have been designed to coordinate with the provisions of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, and the American National Standards Institute/Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (ANSI/IEEE) C2-1997, National Electrical Safety Code (NESC). The&#xAE; and&#xAE; are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999, NEC &#xAE;, and the ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are available from IEEE Service Center, 455 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, telephone number 1 (800) 678-4333. Copies of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, and the ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Most state and local authorities require that utility construction comply with either the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, or some earlier editions of the ANSI/NFPA 70,&#xAE;, and ANSI/IEEE C2, NESC. Some authorities have their own more stringent codes which may or may not be embellishments of the ANSI/NFPA 70,&#xAE;, and ANSI/IEEE C2, NESC.

(d) RUS borrowers shall make certain that all construction financed with RUS loan funds comply with:
