
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.505 Buried services.

(a) Buried services of two or three pairs shall consist of Service Entrance Buried (SEB) assembly units, in accordance with RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 (RUS Form 515d), Specifications and Drawings for Service Installations at Customer Access Locations. The wire used for buried services shall conform to the requirements of § 1755.860, RUS specification for filled buried wires, and shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted. The conductor size for two and three pair buried service wires shall be 22 American Wire Gauge (AWG). Copies of RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 690-2268.

(b) Buried services of six or more pairs shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted 22 AWG filled buried cable conforming to the requirements of § 1755.390, RUS specification for filled telephone cables.

(c) Buried service wire or cable shall be terminated in buried plant housings using either splicing connectors or filled terminal blocks in accordance with the applicable paragraphs of § 1755.200, RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.

(d) Buried service wire or cable shall be identified at buried plant housings in accordance with construction drawing 958 contained in § 1755.510.

(e) Buried service wire or cable shall be installed up to the building in the same general manner as buried exchange cable but in addition must meet the following requirements:

(1) Light weight lawn plows or trenchers shall be used;

(2) The shortest feasible route commensurate with the requirements of § 1755.508(i), (j), and (k), and paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be followed;

(3) Buried service wire or cable shall be plowed or trenched to a depth of 12 in. (305 mm) or greater where practicable in soil, 36 in. (914 mm) in ditches, or 3 in. (76 mm) in rock. Depths shall be measured from the top of the wire or cable to the surface of the ground or rock;

(4) In the case of a layer of soil over rock either the minimum depth in rock measured to the surface of the rock, or the minimum depth in soil measured to the surface of the soil may be used; and

(5) Where adequate advance planning has been done, burial of telecommunications services jointly with electric power services may be feasible. If a decision has been reached by management to provide joint occupancy services, the services may be installed using the recommendations in RUS Bulletin 1751F-640, "Design of Buried Plant-Physical Considerations." Copies of RUS Bulletin 1751F-640 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.

(f) Buried service wire or cable shall be installed on or in buildings as follows:

(1) Each buried service wire or cable shall contact the building as close to the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector as practicable. Service wire or cable runs on buildings shall normally consist of a single vertical run held to the minimum practical length. Horizontal and diagonal runs shall not be permitted.

(2) Buried service wire or cable shall be located so as to avoid damage from lawn mowers, animals, gardening operations, etc.

(3) Buried service wire or cable shall be installed against a foundation wall or pillar to provide adequate support and mechanical protection.

(4) Where it is likely that the service wire or cable shall be subjected to mechanical damage, the wire or cable shall be enclosed in a guard in accordance with assembly unit drawing BM83 contained in § 1755.510.

(5) The first above-ground attachment for a buried service wire or cable, unless it is enclosed in a guard, shall not be more than 4 in. (100 mm) above final grade.
