
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.506 Aerial wire services.
###### NEC,National Electrical Code,NEC,NEC,NEC,NEC,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(d) Aerial service wires shall be run in accordance with the construction drawings contained in § 1755.510 and shall conform to all clearance requirements of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, or local laws or ordinances, whichever are the most stringent. The&#xAE; and&#xAE; are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are available from IEEE Service Center, 455 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, telephone number 1 (800) 678-4333. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(e) Aerial service wire shall be installed using the maximum practicable sag consistent with the required ground clearance and good construction practices. In no event shall the minimum sags be less than the values shown on construction drawing 505 contained in § 1755.510 for various span lengths and loading areas provided. Span lengths shall not exceed 250 ft (76 m).

(f) To reduce vibration and galloping, aerial service wire shall be twisted one complete turn for each 10 ft (3 m) of span length at the time of installation.

(g) The methods of attaching aerial service wires at poles shall be as illustrated in construction drawings 503-2 and 504 contained in § 1755.510.

(h) Horizontal and vertical climbing spaces on poles used jointly with power circuits shall be provided in conformance with the requirements of Rule 236 of ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC.

(i) Not more than four aerial service wires shall be distributed from any onein. (10 mm) drive hook, or more than two aerial service wires from any onein. (8 mm) drive hook. Aerial service wires and drive hooks shall be arranged so that the load does not pull the drive hook out of the pole. When more than one drive hook is required, the drive hooks shall be staggered with a minimum separation of 1 in. (25.4 mm) horizontally on centers and 1.5 in. (40 mm) vertically on centers. If drive hooks are placed within 3 in. (76 mm) of the top of the pole and on the opposite side of the pole's circumference, a vertical separation of at least 3 in. (76 mm) shall be provided. A drive hook shall not be placed on the top of a pole or stub pole.

(j) When connecting aerial service wires to cable pairs at terminals, sufficient slack shall be provided so that each aerial service wire shall reach any binding post position as shown on construction drawing 312-1 contained in § 1755.510.

(k) Aerial service wire attachments on utility poles and the manner of placing bridle rings and entering cable terminals shall be as shown on construction drawing 503-2 contained in § 1755.510.

(l) Not more than two conductors shall be connected to any terminal binding post. Where it is necessary to bridge more than two aerial service wires at the same closure, the aerial service wires shall be terminated in aerial service wire terminals connected in parallel with a No. 20 AWG bridle wire which shall be terminated on the binding posts of the filled terminal block.

(m) Where aerial service wire is attached to aerial plastic cable, it shall be brought directly into a ready-access closure and shall be terminated on the binding posts of the filled terminal block as shown on construction drawing 503-2 contained in § 1755.510.

(n) The conductor of copper coated steel reinforced aerial service wires identified by tracer ridges shall be used as the ring (negative battery) conductor of the pair, and shall normally be connected to the right or lower binding post of a pair on filled terminal blocks and NIDs or fused primary station protectors.
