
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.506 Aerial wire services.
###### Nonmetallic reinforced aerial service wire pair identification.

(o)(1) The tip and ring conductors of nonmetallic reinforced aerial service wires shall be identified in accordance with Table 3, as follows:

(2) The ring (negative battery) conductor of the pair shall normally be connected to the right or lower binding post of a pair on filled terminal blocks and NIDs or fused primary station protectors.

(p) When it is necessary to avoid intervening obstacles between a pole and a building, span clamp attachments shall be used to support the aerial service wires at points between the poles that are supporting the cable on the suspension strand as indicated by construction drawings 501-1 and 501-2 contained in § 1755.510.

(q) Aerial service wire strung from pole to pole shall be placed entirely below or entirely above any existing wire or cable. When adequate ground clearance can be obtained, preference shall be given to placing aerial service wire below wire and cable.

(r) When more than one aerial service wire is installed from pole to pole, the first aerial service wire shall be sagged in accordance with construction drawing 505 contained in § 1755.510. Succeeding aerial service wires shall be sagged with 2 in. (50.8 mm) more sag for each aerial service wire.

(s) Aerial service wire spans from pole lines to buildings shall follow the shortest feasible route commensurate with the requirements of paragraph (t) of this section and shall be sagged in accordance with construction drawing 505 contained in § 1755.510. The route shall avoid trees and other obstructions to the extent practicable. Where trees cannot be avoided, tree trimming permission shall be obtained from the owner or the owner's representative, and all limbs and foliage within 2 ft (600 mm) of the finally sagged wire shall be removed. If tree trimming permission cannot be obtained, the matter shall be referred to the borrower for resolution before proceeding with the installation.

(t) Aerial service wires shall contact buildings as closely as practicable at a point directly above the NID, or fused primary station protector. Generally, horizontal drop wire runs on buildings shall not exceed 20 ft (6 m). The warning given in § 1755.505(f)(11) regarding drilling holes in aluminum and vinyl siding applies also to attaching aerial service wires.

(u) The point of the first building attachment shall be located so that the aerial service wire will be clear of roof drainage points.

(v) Where practicable, aerial service wires shall pass under electrical guys, power distribution secondaries and services, tree limbs, etc.

(w) Aerial service wire shall not pass in front of windows or immediately above doors.

(x) Aerial service wires shall be routed so as to have a minimum clearance of 2 ft (600 mm) from any part of a short wave, ham radio, etc. antenna mast and a television antenna mast in its normal vertical position and of the possible region through which it sweeps when being lowered to a horizontal position.
