
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.506 Aerial wire services.
###### NEC

(aa) Insulated attachments shall be used on wooden frame, metallic siding and other types of combustible buildings where fused primary station protectors are used, as required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;.

(bb) Aerial service wire runs on buildings shall be attached vertically and horizontally in a neat and most inconspicuous possible manner. See construction drawing 513 contained in § 1755.510. Horizontal runs on buildings are undesirable and shall be kept to a minimum. Diagonal runs shall not be made.

(cc) Aerial service wire runs on buildings shall be located so as not to be subjected to damage from passing vehicles, pedestrians, or livestock.

(dd) Minimum separation between aerial service wires and other facilities on or in buildings shall be in accordance with § 1755.505(f)(8), Table 1.

(ee) Appropriate devices for attaching aerial service wires to buildings vary with the type of building construction and with the type of customer access location equipment. Table 4 lists various types of attachments and their application with respect to construction, customer access location equipment, and proper mounting devices. Construction drawings 506 through 513 contained in § 1755.510 illustrate requirements with respect to various angles of service wire contacts and uses of various attachments. Table 4 is as follows:

(ff) Fastener spacings for vertical and horizontal runs on frame or masonry buildings shall not be more than 6 ft (2 m) apart. Fasteners should be spaced close enough to prevent the aerial service wire from "slapping" against the building during windy conditions.

(gg) When it is necessary to pass behind or around obstructions such as downspouts and vertical conduits, the aerial service wire shall be supported firmly with attachment devices placed not more than 6 in. (152 mm) from the obstruction as illustrated in Figures 4 and 5 of paragraph (hh) of this section. Preferably, the aerial service wire should be routed behind obstructions to minimize the possibility of mechanical damage to the aerial service wire in the event repair work to the obstruction is required.

(hh) When passing around building projections of masonry or wood or around corners, aerial service wires shall be installed as illustrated in Figures 5 and 6. Figures 4, 5, and 6 are as follows:

(ii) In areas where ice and snow conditions are severe, aerial service wires shall be located so that ice and snow falling from the roof will not strike the wires. However, where aerial service wires must pass under the sloping part of the roof, first attachments shall be made as close as practicable to the eaves.

(jj) If two aerial service wire spans are required to the same building, the first attachment shall be such that both aerial service wires can be attached at the same attachment device. Refer to construction drawing 508-1 contained in § 1755.510. Where more than two aerial service wires are required, additional attachment devices in the same general location on the building shall be used.

(kk) When two or more aerial service wire runs are required on the same building they shall share the same type of attachment devices.

(ll) Aerial service wire entrances to buildings shall conform to sketch B of construction drawing 510-2 contained in § 1755.510, unless the entrance is made through a conduit.

(mm) When the aerial service wire approaches the entrance hole from above, a 1.5 in. (40 mm) minimum drip loop shall be formed in accordance with sketch B of construction drawing 510-2 contained in § 1755.510.

(nn) If an entrance conduit which slopes upward from outside to inside is available and suitably located, it shall be used for the aerial service wire entrance.
