
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.508 Customer access location protection.

(a) All customer access locations shall be protected.

(b) Customer access location protection shall consist of installing the telecommunications facilities with proper clearances and insulation from other facilities, providing primary voltage limiting protection, fuse links, NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors, if required, and adequate bonding and grounding.

(c) All NIDs shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted or the RUS borrower shall obtain RUS regional office approval on a case by case basis as applicable.

(d) All BETs shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted.

(e) All fused primary station protectors shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted.

(f) NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors shall be mounted outside for all applications except for those described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section.

(g) NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors may be mounted inside when:

(1) Large buildings are to be served and the customer requests an inside installation;

(2) Buried alarm circuits are requested by the subscriber; or

(3) The customer requests an all buried installation for appearance or to prevent the drilling of holes in aluminum or vinyl siding.

(h) Outside mounted NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors shall be easily accessible and shall be located between 3 to 5 ft (1 to 1.5 m) above final grade.
