
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.508 Customer access location protection.
###### NEC

(8) When the water pipe is used, the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, requires that metal piping be used as a bonding conductor in this manner only when the connections to the pipe are within 5 ft (1.5 m) of where the pipe enters the premises.

(cc) Bonding conductors shall consist of either copper or tinned copper insulated wires of appropriate sizes.

(1) Bonding conductors shall be run and attached in the same manner as grounding conductors.

(2) Attaching and terminating devices for bonding conductors shall be adequate for the size of wire involved. The No. 6 AWG copper insulated conductor or larger shall not be terminated by bending it around a threaded stud.

(dd) Where NID, BET, or fused station protector assembly units require a driven ground rod the following shall apply to the ground rod installation:

(1) Locate the ground rod at least 1 ft (300 mm) from buildings, poles, trees and other obstruction;

(2) Ground rods shall not be installed within 6 ft (2 m) of electric service ground rods (Note: This minimum separation is provided to avoid mutual impedance effects of multiple grounding electrodes that will deleteriously degrade the effective impedance-to-earth if grounding electrodes are installed any closer than 6 ft (2 m) to one another. This requirement is included for cases where the telecommunications company is not allowed, for some reason, to observe the RUS preferred grounding method of attaching the primary protector grounding conductor directly to an accessible point on the building electric service grounding system. RUS believes that if the primary protector location can be sited within 6 ft (2 m) of the electric service ground rod then the electric service ground rod could be used as the preferred telecommunications grounding electrode and a separate telecommunications ground rod is unnecessary);

(3) A hole, 15 in. (350 mm) deep and 6 in. (150 mm) in diameter, shall be dug at the location where the ground rod is to be driven;

(4) Where "slip-on" type ground rod clamps are used instead of "clamp-around" type clamps, the ground rod clamps shall be placed onto the rod prior to driving the rod into the ground (Note there should be one clamp for the NID, BET, or fused station protector grounding conductor and one clamp for the conductor required to bond the telecommunications ground rod to the electric grounding system). However, the clamp shall not be tightened until the rod is completely driven. The end of the rod shall be placed in the bottom of the hole and the rod shall be aligned vertically adjacent to one wall of the hole prior to driving. The rod shall be driven until its tip is 12 in. (300 mm) below final grade. The grounding conductor shall then be attached, the clamp shall be tightened, and hole backfilled. Clamps employed in this manner shall be suitable for direct burial and shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted; and

(5) Where rods are manually driven, a large number of blows from a light hammer (4 lbs (1.8 kg)) shall be used instead of heavy sledgehammer type blows. This should keep the rod from bending.

(ee) Terminations on fuseless primary station protectors incorporated in NIDs and on fused primary station protectors shall be as shown in Figures 10, 11, 12, and 13 of paragraph (ee)(1) of this section, Figure 14 of paragraph (ee)(4) of this section, and Figure 15 of paragraph (ee)(6) of this section. The inner jackets of buried service wires and outer jackets of cables used as service drops shall be extended into the NID or the fused primary station protector. A 10 in. (250 mm) length of each spare wire shall be left in NIDs or fused primary station protectors. The spare wires shall be coiled up neatly and stored in the NID or fused primary station protector housing.

(1) The shields of buried service wires may be connected to the ground binding post using RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted buried service shield bond connectors as shown in Figure 10 for NIDs and Figure 11 for fused primary station protectors. RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted buried service wire harness wires designed for customer access location installations may also be used for terminating buried service wire shields to the ground binding post of the NID as shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for fused primary station protectors. Figures 10 through 13 are as follows:

(2) On buried service drops and aerial service drops of more than 6 pairs using RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted cables, the shields shall be terminated with a RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted cable shield bonding connector and extended to the ground binding post of the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector with an RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted bonding harness wire. The installation of the shield bond connector and bonding harness wire shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.

(3) The shield and other conductors at the fuseless primary station protector incorporated in the NID shall be terminated as shown on Figure 14 in paragraph (ee)(4) of this section. The pronged or cupped washer shall be placed above the shield. The grounding conductor shall be placed around the post on top of the pronged or cupped washer. A flat washer shall be placed above the grounding conductor.

(4) The station wire signaling ground conductor, if required, shall be placed above the first flat washer and beneath the second flat washer as indicated in Figure 14 as follows:

(5) The shield and other conductors at the fused primary station protector shall be terminated as shown on Figure 15 in paragraph (ee)(6) of this section. The pronged or cupped washer shall be placed above the shield. The grounding conductor shall be placed around the post on top of the pronged or cupped washer. A flat washer shall be placed above the grounding conductor.

(6) The station wire signaling ground conductor, if required, shall be placed above the first flat washer and beneath the second flat washer as indicated in Figure 15 as follows:

(7) Indoor NIDs or BETs that are equipped with "Quick Connect" type terminals shall not have more than one wire connected per clip. No. 19 AWG copper and No. 18 AWG copper covered-steel reinforced aerial service wire conductors shall not be connected to quick connect terminals. Nonmetallic reinforced aerial service wire using No. 22 AWG copper conductors may be connected to the quick connect terminals.

(8) Tip and ring connections and other connections in multipair NIDs or BETs shall be as indicated in Figure 16 as follows:

(ff) System polarity and conductor identification shall be maintained in NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors in accordance with construction drawings 815 and 815-1 contained in ยง 1755.510.
