
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.508 Customer access location protection.
###### NEC

(z) Grounding conductors shall be separated from non-telecommunications company wires in accordance with section 800-12(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;.

(aa) Grounding conductors run through metal conduits shall be bonded to the conduit at each end. RUS accepted and RUS technically accepted pipe type ground clamps and grounding connectors shall be used for bonding.

(bb) Where NID, BET, or fused station protector assembly units require grounding conductor connections to pipe systems, the following apply:

(1) The connection shall be made to a cold water pipe of an operating water system;

(2) The connection point shall be preferably inside the building;

(3) Allow a minimum of 6 in. (152 mm) between the last fastener and the point where the grounding conductor first touches the water pipe;

(4) Leave 2 in. (50.8 mm) of slack in the grounding conductor to avoid breaking the conductor at the terminating point. Tape the grounding conductor to the pipe where possible to avoid movement. In no case, shall the grounding conductor be coiled or wrapped around the pipe;

(5) The pipe shall be cleaned with fine sand paper to make a good electrical connection. Care should be taken to avoid damaging the pipe while cleaning it;

(6) Attach the pipe grounding conductor connector to the cleaned area of pipe and tighten. Care shall be exercised to avoid deforming, crushing, or otherwise damaging the pipe. A simple continuity check with an ohmmeter between the connector and the pipe will indicate whether or not a good electrical contact has been made. Set the ohmmeter to "Rx1" scale to ensure that a low resistance contact is made;

(7) A warning tag shall be attached to the ground clamp with the following or equivalent statement: "Call the telecommunications company if this connector or grounding conductor is loose or must be removed;" and
