
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.508 Customer access location protection.
###### NEC

(q) NIDs or BETs incorporating fuseless station protectors shall always be used in preference to fused station protectors or BETs incorporating fused protectors, when in the judgment of the RUS borrower or the engineer delegated by the RUS borrower, the requirements of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, for fuseless station protectors can be met.

(r) A fuse link consisting of a copper conductor two gauges (AWG) finer (numerically higher) conductivity than the aerial service wire shall be provided between the cable and aerial service wire where NIDs or BETs incorporating fuseless station protectors are used. Thus for a 22 AWG drop, a fuse link of No. 24 AWG or finer copper wire shall be provided. If the cable circuit is No. 24 gauge or finer, the cable conductors serve as the fuse link for the 22 AWG aerial service wire and no separate fuse link is necessary. (Note: The fuse link or the facilities serving as the fuse link must be located between the telecommunications facilities that are exposed to possible power cross and the customer drop where there is no exposure to possible power cross.)

(s) RUS's buried plant practices require buried main line plant to be protected against power contacts to aerial plant extensions and aerial inserts by No. 24 AWG fuse links at every buried-aerial junction.

(t) In aerial cable plant, fuse links are usually provided by No. 24 AWG leads on filled terminal blocks regardless of the gauge of the cable conductors. This practice is acceptable if the ampacity of the aerial service wire is sufficiently higher than the fuse link's ampacity.

(u) The grounding and bonding of each NID, BET, or fused primary station protector shall be selected by consulting paragraphs (i) through (n) of this section. The "first choice" assembly unit shall be selected whenever the prevailing conditions make its use practicable. The NID, BET, or fused primary station protector assembly unit selected shall be installed in accordance with the appropriate construction drawing specified in RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 (RUS Form 515d), Specifications and Drawings for Service Installations at Customer Access Locations (Incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.97). Copies of RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.

(v) The minimum size grounding conductor that can be used with a single NID; a group of NIDs; a multipair NID; fused protector; or BET shall be in accordance Table 5, as follows:

(w) Grounding conductor runs between the NID, BET, or fused station protector and the ground electrode shall conform to the following:

(1) The shortest, most direct route practicable shall be used;

(2) Sharp bends in the grounding conductor shall be avoided during installation;

(3) No splices shall be made in the grounding conductor;

(4) Grounding conductors shall not be fished through walls, under floors, or placed in bridle rings or any metal conduit unless the grounding conductor is bonded to the conductor at both ends of the metallic conduit;

(5) Grounding conductor runs from an outside mounted NID, BET, or fused station protector to an inside ground electrode shall use the same entrance as the station wire; and

(6) Grounding conductor runs from an outside mounted NID, BET, or fused station protector to an outside ground electrode at the building shall be attached to the exterior surface of the building or buried. If buried, the grounding conductor shall be either plowed or trenched to a minimum depth of 12 in. (300 mm). When trenched, the trenches shall be as close to the side of the building as practicable, backfilled, and tamped to restore the earth to its original condition.

(x) Telecommunications grounding connectors shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted. Grounding and bonding conductors shall be made of copper. Where the grounding and bonding conductors must be connected to aluminum electric service grounding conductors, bimetal grounding connectors shall be used.

(y) Grounding conductor attachments shall conform to the following:

(1) Galvanized nails or clamps, or nickel-copper alloy staples shall be used for grounding conductor attachments in accordance with Table 6 in paragraph (y)(3) of this section;

(2) Grounding conductors, station or buried service wires in parallel runs may share the same fastening device when the device is specifically designed for two wires. See Table 6 in paragraph (y)(3) of this section for station wire and grounding conductor fasteners; and

(3) Grounding conductor fasteners shall be placed 12 to 18 in. (300 to 450 mm) apart on straight runs and 2 to 4 in. (50.8 to 100 mm) apart at corners and at bends. Table 6 is as follows:
