
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.509 Mobile homes.
###### NEC,National Electrical Code,NEC,NEC,NEC,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.,NEC,NEC,NEC,NEC,NEC

(b) The method of customer access location installation prescribed by the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE; for a mobile home depends on how the electric power is installed at the mobile home and it can involve considerable judgment on the part of the telecommunications installer. The&#xAE; and&#xAE; are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P. O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, requires primary station protectors to be located where specific acceptable grounding electrodes exist. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, allows station protector installations to be at the location of the power meter or the electric disconnecting means apparatus serving the mobile home providing these electric facilities are installed in the manner specifically defined by the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, requires the station protectors to be installed at the nearest of a number of other meticulously defined ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,&#xAE;, acceptable electrodes where the protector cannot be installed at the power meter or the electric disconnecting means apparatus serving the mobile home. The provisions can be confusing.

(c) NIDs shall be installed at mobile homes as follows:

(1) Where the mobile home electric service equipment (power meter, etc.,) or the electric service disconnecting means associated with the mobile home is located within 35 ft (10.7 m) of the exterior wall of the mobile homes it serves, the NID shall be installed in accordance with Figure 17 as follows:

(2) Where the mobile home electric service equipment (power meter, etc.,) or the electric service disconnecting means associated with the mobile home is located more than 35 ft (10.7 m) from the exterior wall of the mobile homes it serves, the NID shall be installed in accordance with Figure 18 as follows:

(d) The service wire and station wire shall be terminated in the NID in accordance with Figure 19 in paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) Installation of the station wire and grounding conductor at the mobile home shall be in accordance with Figure 20. Figures 19 and 20 are as follows:
