
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### System type acceptance tests.

(c)(1) System type acceptance tests (general acceptance tests) are performed for the purpose of determining whether or not a type of switching system should be added or retained as an RUS accepted system. While general acceptance tests will be required on each system type, they will not be expected to cover every requirement in this section. However, any installation of a system provided in accordance with this section shall be capable of meeting any requirement in this section on a spot-check basis.

(2) A "completed call" test shall be made part of these system type acceptance tests. There shall be no more than two in 10,000 locally originating and incoming calls misdirected, unsuccessfully terminated, prematurely disconnected or otherwise failing as a result of equipment malfunction and/or equipment failures, or as a result of transients, noise or design deficiencies. This test shall be made with a load box with no less than 10 lines access and 10 subscriber numbers for completion, or equivalent, with no other traffic in the system. If there is a failure in the equipment during this test, the cause shall be repaired and the test restarted at zero calls.

(3) System type acceptance testing applies basically to factory type testing, and not to owner acceptance testing for individual installations. The overall installed and operating system shall also meet these requirements, except for unusual circumstances or where specifically excluded by this or other RUS requirements.
