
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Line circuit requirements,General.

(f)-(1)(i) The range of direct current (dc) resistances of subscriber loops, measured from the main frame in the central office and including the telephone set shall be at least 0-1900 ohms without loop extension and 1900-3600 ohms with loop extenders, or equivalent. The range when using extension equipment may be significantly reduced for straight line ringers. These limits apply under maximum adverse environmental and manufacturing variation tolerance conditions. Central office voltage shall be stabilized at a value necessary to provide at least a nominal 21 milliamperes current with a nontreated loop of at least 1900 ohms. Minimum loop insulation resistance without loop extenders shall be 25,000 ohms between conductors or from either conductor or both conductors in parallel to ground. Loop insulation resistance for loop extension devices may be 100,000 ohms minimum between conductors or from either conductor or both conductors in parallel to ground.

(ii) In addition to operating on nonloaded cable pairs and subscriber carrier, the equipment shall function properly with D-66 and H-88 loaded cable pairs, including any provisions the equipment must control for the purposes of proper transmission.
