
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### General requirements.

(e)(1) The equipment shall provide for terminating and automatically interconnecting subscriber lines and trunks in response to dial pulses (or pushbutton dialing signals, if specified) without the aid of an operator.

(2) Complete flexibility shall be provided for assigning any subscriber directory number to any central office line equipment by the use of internal programmed memory. Thus, any subscriber line and/or directory number may be moved to another terminal to distribute traffic loads, if the line equipment hardware is compatible with the service provided.

(3) The system shall be arranged to interface with interexchange carrier trunks and networks using single digit or multi-digit access codes. The system shall be equipped to handle at least 20-digit subscriber dialed numbers. All subscriber directory numbers in the office shall be seven-digit numbers.

(4) The network and the control equipment shall be comprised of solid-state and integrated circuitry components. Peripheral equipment shall be comprised of solid-state and integrated circuitry components as far as practical and consistent with the state-of-the-art and economics of the subject system.

(5) The basic switching system shall include the provision of software programming and necessary hardware, including memory, for optional custom calling services such as call waiting, call forwarding, three-way calling, and abbreviated dialing. It shall be possible to provide these services to any individual line (single-party) subscriber. The addition of these services shall not reduce the anticipated ultimate engineered line, trunk, and traffic capacity of the switching system as specified in appendix A of this section.

(6) The requirements in this specification apply only to single party lines. Although only single frequency ringing is required, other types may be requested in appendix A of this section.

(7) Provision shall be made for local automatic message accounting (LAMA), and for traffic service position system (TSPS) trunks, or equivalent, to the operator's office when required either initially or in the future.

(8) Tandem switching features shall be provided if specified in appendix A of this section.

(9) The system shall be arranged to serve a minimum of eight All Number Calling (ANC) office codes per office, with discrimination on terminating calls by trunk group, numbering plan, or programmed memory and class mark, if specified in appendix A of this section.

(10) Busy hour load handling capacity is an important feature when an office approaches capacity. The delays which may occur in call completion during busy hour periods may prove to be excessive in some system designs. Accordingly, each bidder shall provide, in appendix C of this section, data satisfactory to RUS regarding the busy hour load handling capacity and traffic delays of the system.

(11) Provision shall be made for hotel-motel arrangements, as required by the owner, to permit the operation of message registers at the subscriber's premises to record local outdial calls by guests (see Item 10.5, appendix A of this section).

(12) Provision shall be made to identify the calling line or incoming trunk on nuisance calls (see paragraph (g)(10) of this section for details).

(13) Full access from every subscriber line to every interoffice trunk shall be provided.

(14) Facilities shall be provided to implement service orders, make traffic studies, and perform switching and transmission tests by means of remote control devices if such operations are specified in Items 11.2 and 11.3 of appendix A of this section.

(15) Provision shall be made for the addition of facilities to record all subscriber originated calls based on dialed directory number, time of day, and duration of conversation. They shall be such that the additional equipment (if any is required) may be added to an in-service system without interruption of service and a minimum of equipment, wiring and software modifications.

(16) The system shall be capable of distributed switching operation where groups of subscriber lines can be remotely located from the central office. The remotely situated units are known as "Remote Switching Terminals" (RST's) (see paragraph (w) of this section). This does not eliminate the use of pair gain devices such as direct digitally connected concentrators, regular concentrators or subscriber carrier equipment, where specifically ordered by the owner and its engineer.

(17) The switching system shall have means to synchronize its clock with switches above it in the network hierarchy, when specified by the owner in item 3, appendix A of this section (see paragraph (j) of this section).

(18) Consistent with system arrangements and ease of maintenance, space shall be provided on the floor plan for an orderly layout of future equipment bays that will be required for anticipated traffic when the office reaches its ultimate size. Readily accessible terminals shall be provided for connection to interbay and frame cables to future bays. All cables, interbay and intrabay (excluding power), if technically feasible, shall be terminated at both ends by use of connectors.

(19) When specified in appendix A of this section, the system shall be capable of processing emergency calls to a 911 service bureau connected either by a group of one-way 911 lines or a trunk group.

(i) It shall be possible to reach the service bureau by dialing 911, 1 + 911, or a 7-digit number.

(ii) The system shall select an idle 911 line or trunk.

(iii) The system shall provide usual ringing and ringback signal until the called 911 line answers.

(iv) If the calling line goes on-hook first, the system shall hold the connection from the called 911 line and return steady low tone to the service bureau. The system shall then begin a 45-minute timeout, after which the calling line is disconnected and an alarm message is printed on a TTY. If the calling line goes off-hook before timeout, the system shall reestablish the conversation path.

(v) If the calling line does not disconnect, the service bureau attendant shall have the ability to force a disconnect of the established connection with the calling party.

(vi) When the 911 call is answered, the equipment shall be arranged so that coin lines are not charged for the call. Similarly, if some form of local call charging is used, there shall be no charge for the 911 call.

(vii) If the 911 service bureau is holding a calling line, it shall be possible for the 911 line to cause the equipment to ring back the calling line. This is done by providing a flash of on-hook signal from the 911 line lasting from 200 to 1,100 milliseconds. The signal to the calling line shall be ringing current if the line is on-hook, or receiver off-hook (ROH) tone if the line is off-hook.

(viii) Calls shall not be originated from the service bureau via the dedicated 911 lines. If an attempt is made to originate a call, it shall receive reorder tone. After 6 minutes, the system shall print an alarm message.

(ix) If 911 calls pass through intermediate switching, the forced-hold control, emergency ringback, and calling line status monitoring capabilities are lost.
