
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Requirements for interoffice connections.

(3)(i) When operator trunks are used in common for both coin and noncoin lines, they shall be arranged to provide an indication to the operator by means of a visual signal or tone when calls are from pay stations. When a tone is used, it shall be of the type specified in paragraph (i)(2)(v) of this section and shall be connected to be heard only by the operator upon answer. It shall be possible to repeat the tone signal.

(ii) There are no requirements for trunks arranged for manual re-ring by a toll operator, either with the receiver on or off the hook, except to coin stations with the receiver on the hook.

(iii) On calls from subscribers to the assistance operator, the release of the connection shall be under control of the last party to disconnect. An exception is operator control of disconnect that is used on outgoing trunks to a TSP/TSPS system.

(iv) On calls originated by an operator, the release of the connection shall be under control of the operator.

(v) Where trunks with E and M lead signaling are used, the trunk circuits for Type I signaling shall be arranged to place ground on the M lead during the on-hook condition and battery on the M lead in the off-hook condition. For E and M Type II, only a make contact between the MA and MB lead will be required. In either type, current limiting shall be provided in the E lead of the trunk circuit itself, as required for proper operation. It shall be assumed that connection equipment in the form of trunk carrier, multiplex, or associated signaling apparatus furnishes only a contact closure to ground (Type I) or to a signal ground lead (Type II) for an off-hook condition on the E lead.

(vi) Where answer supervision is used to determine the initiation of the charging interval for a call, such answer supervision shall not be effective for charging until after the elapse of the timing interval listed in paragraph (r)(5) of this section.

(vii) When necessary, provision shall be made for reception of start and stop dial signals on toll trunk equipment.

(viii) When trunks arranged for automatic message accounting (AMA), toll ticketing, or centralized automatic message accounting (CAMA) are specified by the owner, these trunks shall provide the pertinent features described in paragraph (k) of this section applicable to such functions.
