
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Requirements for direct digital connections.

(4)(i) Interface units which will permit direct digital connection to other digital switches, channel banks and remote line and/or trunk circuits over digital facilities shall be provided when specified by the owner. The digital transmission system shall be compatible with T1 type span lines using a DS1 interface and other digital interfaces that may be specified by the owner. The RUS specification for the span line equipment is Bulletin 345-50, PE-60, RUS Specification for Trunk Carrier Systems.

(ii) Each interface circuit shall connect 24 voice channels to the switching system from a 1.544 megabit per second DS1 bit stream. The DS1 bit stream entering or exiting the system shall be in the D3 format and the voice signals shall be encoded in 8 bit mu-255 PCM. The format and processing of the bit stream must be compatible with characteristics of the D3 channel bank such as alarm and maintenance characteristics. Loss of receive signal (DS1) shall be detected and the equivalent of a carrier group alarm shall be executed in 2.5 +/-0.5 seconds. Loss of synchronization shall be detected by slips, timing jitter, and wander in accordance with industry standards.

(iii) Signaling shall be by means of MF or dial pulse (DP) and the system which is inherent in the A and B bits of the D3 format. In the case where they are not used for signaling, the A and B bits shall be used only for normal voice and data transmission.
