
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Tone specifications.

(2)(i) Dial tone shall consist of 350 Hz plus 440 Hz at a composite level of -10 dBm0 which equates to -13 dBm0 per frequency. This is the precise tone suitable for use with pushbutton dialing.

(ii) Low tone shall consist of 480 Hz plus 620 Hz at a composite level of -21 dBm0 which equates to -24 dBm0 per frequency.

(iii) Line busy tone shall be low tone interrupted at 60 IPM, with tone on 0.5 seconds and off 0.5 seconds.

(iv) Reorder, all paths busy, and no circuit tone shall be low tone interrupted at 120 IPM, with tone on 0.25 seconds and off 0.25 seconds.

(v) Identifying tone on calls from coin lines shall be uninterrupted low tone.

(vi) High tone shall consist of 480 Hz at -17 dBm0.

(vii) Audible ringback tone shall consist of 440 plus 480 Hz at a composite level of -16 dBm0 which equates to -19 dBm0 per frequency.

(viii) The call progress tones listed in this section are described in Bellcore document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks-1990, section 6. The 350, 440, 480, and 620 Hz tones shall be held at +/-0.5 percent frequency tolerance and +/-3 dB amplitude variation. The amplitude levels specified are to be measured at the main distributing frame, excluding cable loss.

(ix) Distinctive tone, when required for alarm calls, or other features, shall consist of high tone interrupted at 200 IPM with tone on 150 ms and off 150 ms.

(x) Identifying tone on intercepted calls shall consist of uninterrupted high tone impressed on the trunk circuit 300 to 600 milliseconds following the operator's answer of intercepted calls.

(xi) An ROH circuit shall have output tones which do not interfere with the pushbutton or multifrequency signaling tones. The ROH tone may be introduced digitally internal to the system near the overload level of + 3 dBm0. No power adjustment will be required. The frequency of the output shall be distinctive and urgent in order to attract the subscriber's attention to an off-hook situation. (Warning: In order to determine the signal level, a frequency selective voltmeter must be used to determine the level of each signal component and mathematical power addition used to combine these measurements into a single level value.)

(xii) During application of tones, office longitudinal balance shall be maintained within 15 dB of that specified in paragraph (q)(8) of this section.
