
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Intraoffice switching requirements.

(g)(1) The switching system shall:

(i) Provide dial tone in response to origination of a call by a subscriber, except on special lines where the application of dial tone is not applicable, such as manual and hot lines;

(ii) Remove dial tone immediately after the first digit has been dialed;

(iii) Recognize the class of service of the calling subscriber;

(iv) Register the digits dialed by the calling subscriber where the rotary dial or pushbutton dialing characteristics and the minimum interdigital times are as specified;

(v) Perform the necessary translation functions when the required number of digits have been registered, and select a channel to a proper outgoing trunk, if one is available, to the designated interexchange carrier;

(vi) Provide a transmission path from the calling subscriber line to the selected trunk, if an idle one is found;

(vii) Provide for more than one alternate route to the desired destination when specified by the owner, select an idle outgoing trunk in the first or second choice alternate route trunk group, if all trunks in the higher choice groups are busy, and provide a reorder signal (see paragraph (i)(2)(iv) of this section) to the subscriber if no trunks are available in the last choice alternate route;

(viii) Translate the proper part of the registered incoming routing data on tandem calls into an identification of an outgoing trunk group, select an idle trunk in that group, initiate the connection of the incoming trunk to the outgoing trunk, set the trunks in the proper configuration for tandem operation, and transmit information as required to permit completion to the desired destination in the distant office;

(ix) Transmit the proper stored information over the selected trunk to permit completion of outgoing calls to the desired destination by the distant office or offices, and provide multifrequency (MF) outpulsing when specified;

(x) Register all the digital information on calls incoming from a distant office, when dial or MF pulsing characteristics and interdigital times are as specified;

(xi) Translate internally a registered directory number into line equipment location, ringing code and terminating class (such as "PBX hunting") on incoming or intraoffice calls;

(xii) Test the called line for a busy condition;

(xiii) Connect the incoming trunk or locally originated call to the called line if the called line is idle;

(xiv) Permit any type of ringing voltage available in the central office to be associated with any Subscriber Directory Number (SDN), cause the proper type of ringing voltage to be connected to the called line, and remove ringing from the line upon answer whether in the ringing or silent period; and

(xv) Test and monitor the switching system continually during periods of low traffic using the maintenance and diagnostic subsystem.

(2) The switching system shall offer at least the following originating and terminating class-of-service indications on a per-line basis to subscribers, as specified by the owner:

(i) Flat rate individual line, bridged ringing;

(ii) Flat rate PBX and trunk hunting numbers, bridged ringing;

(iii) Pay station;

(iv) Message rate subscriber line;

(v) Wide Area Telephone Service (WATS);

(vi) Extended Area Service (EAS);

(vii) Data service;

(viii) Hotel-Motel capability;

(ix) Denied originating;

(x) Denied terminating;

(xi) Custom calling features;

(xii) Special interexchange carrier accesses; and

(xiii) Presubscription to designated interexchange carrier.

(3) The switching system shall provide PBX hunting.

(i) At least one trunk hunting group in each 100 SDN's equipped shall be provided. More may be provided as specified by the owner.

(ii) PBX groups shall be of a reasonable size commensurate with the ultimate size of the switching system.

(iii) Any available SDN may be used for PBX trunk hunting.

(iv) Each PBX group shall have the capability of being assigned one or more nonhunting SDN's for night service.

(v) If the called line is a PBX hunting line, the switching system shall test all assigned lines in the hunting group for a busy condition.

(vi) If the called PBX group is busy, line busy tone, as specified in paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section, shall be returned to the originating end of the connection.

(4) The switching system shall provide pay stations which may be prepay or semi-postpay. The system shall be arranged so that an operator and emergency service (911) may be reached from prepay or semi-postpay coin lines without the use of a coin, when the proper pay station equipment is provided.

(5) To meet dialing requirements, the switching system shall:

(i) Initiate the line lockout function after a delay, as specified in paragraph (r)(3) of this section, if dial or pushbutton dialing pulses are not received after initiation of a call, preferably routing the subscriber line to a holding circuit for tones and then automatically to lockout;

(ii) Connect 120 interruptions per minute (IPM) paths busy tone, recorded message, or other distinctive tone to the calling subscriber if an interval longer than that specified in paragraph (r)(4) of this section elapses between dialed digits;

(iii) Register the standard tone calling signals received from a subscriber station arranged for pushbutton dialing if specified by the owner, provide arrangements to function properly with 12-button pushbutton dialing sets, and return a reorder signal to the subscriber upon receipt of signal from the 11th or 12th buttons if neither of these buttons is assigned functions; and

(iv) Connect the incoming trunk to the digit register equipment within 120 milliseconds after seizure where direct dialing is received on calls from a distant office, cancel the bid for a register, and return reorder tone to the calling end if dial pulses are received before a register is attached.

(6) The switching system shall provide for appropriate circuit usage.

(i) To avoid inefficient utilization of the switching network, that portion of the common equipment that establishes the connection on intramachine calls shall not require more than 500 milliseconds, exclusive of ringing and ring trip, to complete its function under no-delay conditions.

(ii) The switching system shall provide for duplication in a load sharing or redundant configuration any circuit elements or components, the failure of which would reduce the grade of service of 100 or more lines by more than 25 percent of the traffic carrying capacity.

(iii) The switching system shall ensure that failure of access to a high choice circuit will not prevent subsequent calls from being served by lower choice circuits, wherever possible.

(iv) Where only two circuits of a type are provided, circuits shall be designed so that failure of one circuit will not permanently block any portion of the system for the duration of the failure.

(v) Where more than two circuits of a type are provided, successive usages should be on a rotational or random basis rather than the step-up selection with the possible exception of a last choice trunk.

(vi) The system shall be designed so that, in the event of a network failure, the system shall immediately or simultaneously use a redundant portion of the network to complete the call.

(7) The switching system shall provide busy verification facilities with the method of access specified by the owner.

(i) Only an operator or a switchman shall be able to override a busy line condition.

(ii) If the called line is busy, off-hook supervision shall be given the operator or switchman.

(iii) The responsibility of restricting subscribers in distant offices from having access to busy verification shall be on the distant office personnel when the toll trunks are used for both toll connecting and verification traffic.

(iv) When a verification code is used, all digits of the code must be dialed before cut-through to the called line can be accomplished.

(8) The switching system shall provide intercept facilities.

(i) All unused numbering plan area codes, home numbering plan area office codes, service codes and subscriber directory numbers (SDN's) shall be routed to intercept. All intercept administration shall be by changes in memory administrable by telephone company personnel. Maximum machine time to place a subscriber on intercept shall be 15 seconds.

(ii) Unequipped SDN's intercept shall be effective if the processor memory does not have information concerning the SDN in question.

(iii) The intercept equipment shall be arranged so that specific SDN's can be routed to a separate intercept circuit for changed numbers.

(iv) When an intercept call is answered, either by an operator or by a recorded announcement, an off-hook or charge supervision signal shall not be returned, even momentarily, to the originating end.

(v) When intercepting service is to be handled over the regular interoffice toll trunks, a distinctive identifying tone shall be transmitted when the operator answers. This tone shall be of the frequency and duration specified in paragraph (i)(2)(x) of this section.

(9) The switching system shall provide nuisance call trap facilities which, when activated, provide a permanent record of the calling and called numbers complete with date and time of day. Where the call originates over an interoffice trunk, the actual trunk number shall be recorded. There shall be provision for the called subscriber to hold the connection and for the positive trace of the call from origination to termination within the office.

(10) The switching system shall follow appropriate release procedures.

(i) The office shall be arranged so a connection to a terminating channel other than assistance operator shall be released under control of the calling party so that the channel can be reseized, unless the call is to emergency 911 service or other termination arranged for called party control.

(ii) If the called party disconnects first, the channel used in the originally established connection shall be held until the calling party disconnects or until the timing interval specified in paragraph (r)(7) of this section has elapsed. This feature shall not interfere with the normal operation of calls to intercept, fire alarm, or other special services.

(11) The switching system shall provide line load control facilities, when specified by the owner, to give preference for originating service to a limited group of subscribers during emergencies.

(i) These facilities may be activated manually by input-output (I/O) device or automatically after a manual setting of a key (or equivalent) to put line load control into effect, as determined by the bidder. The automatic procedure is preferable.

(ii) Procedures shall be established to avoid the unauthorized use of the line load control facilities.

(iii) Where automatic activation is provided, service may be provided to small groups of nonemergency subscribers on limited grade of service whenever the office load becomes low enough to permit this to be done safely.
