
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Operation.

(2)(i) All equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group A (Line Side Connection).

(ii) All equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group B given that appendix A of this section requires the equipment of the necessary trunks (Trunk Side Connection).

(iii) The equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group C on the trunk groups specified in appendix A of this section. Even though appendix A of this section specifies Feature Group D or some other trunk group, it shall be possible through software commands available to the owner to use Feature Group C signaling protocols on a trunk group basis until such time that the trunk group in question converts to Feature Group D signaling protocols.

(iv) The equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group D on the trunk groups specified in appendix A of this section.

(v) Calls originating from coin lines toward switched access service shall be arranged either to provide signaling protocols for TSPS, or in the absence of TSPS-type service, such calls shall be blocked.

(vi) The equipment shall be arranged for forwarding routing information, calling party identification, and called party numbers in the proper feature group protocols, by trunk group as specified in appendix A of this section.

(vii) The equipment shall be arranged for AMA data collection as specified in appendix A of this section by trunk group. Unless otherwise specified by the owner, the equipment shall be arranged to collect the billing data in the Bellcore AMA format as described in Bellcore document TR-TSY-000508, Automatic Message Accounting.

(viii) If specified in Item 9.4, appendix A of this section, the equipment shall be arranged to store the billing data in a pollable system. If specified in Item 9.5, appendix A of this section, equipment shall be furnished to poll the pollable systems associated with the contract.
