
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Stored program control (SPC) equipment requirements.

(n)(1) The system shall provide redundancy in call processing such that the failure of a call processing unit does not degrade the call processing capabilities of the switching system nor result in the loss of established calls.

(2) Programs shall be modular, flexible and structured. In the interest of more dependable and more easily read programs, it is desirable to use a language which is more person-oriented leaving the detailed machine-oriented problems to a compiler program. Quality assurance of all software programs shall be in accordance with IEEE Std 730-1989, IEEE Standard for Software Quality Assurance Plans, or equivalent.

(3) The office administration program shall have checks within it to prevent failure due to erroneous or inconsistent input data. It shall safeguard against the possibility of upsetting machine performance with improper instructions or information. In addition, modular structure shall allow the use of a variety of human-engineered service order formats. Service changes may be performed remotely if so desired. Average machine time for service change shall be 15 seconds or less. Service changes shall not be registered in permanent memory until verified. The access to the service change shall not have access to generic program.

(4) The switching system shall be able to offer, by request, at least the following printouts of its routine stored data for administrative purposes:

(i) A list of all assigned directory numbers, in numerical order, with their assigned class of service and line terminal numbers;

(ii) A list of all directory numbers, in numerical order, associated with a class of service;

(iii) A list of all unassigned line terminals;

(iv) Traffic data in proper form for separation studies in accordance with the revenue separations procedures current at the time of the contract;

(v) All lines on lockout;

(vi) All lines assigned to intercept;

(vii) All available (unassigned) directory numbers in the working thousands group; and

(viii) A list of equipment busied out for maintenance.

(5) The printouts in paragraph (n)(4) of this section may be delayed to times of light traffic.

(6) Maintenance diagnostics shall be performed by a fault recognition system utilizing both software and hardware, each being used where they are most effective for maintenance and reliability. In the economic interests of providing early and efficient fault detection and accurate pinpointing of faulty areas, it is desirable to have a comprehensive person-machine interface supported by extensive automatic fault detection and analysis, involving diagnostic software for fault resolution and automatic recovery mechanisms to maintain continuous service. Maintenance messages may be channeled to a remote maintenance center if so desired.

(7) Information in memory, having no requirement for changes to be introduced in the maintenance or operation of the system, may be stored in memory devices such as programmable read-only memory (PROM) or other devices that cannot be reprogrammed in the field.
