
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Maintenance facilities,Alarm features, including alarm sending.

(o)-(1)(i) The equipment shall be arranged to provide audible and visual alarms indicating fuse operation or other circuit malfunctions resulting from component failure, crosses or open wiring, or any other conditions affecting service which can be detected economically.

(ii) The alarms shall be classified in accordance with their effect on the system.

(A) Catastrophic alarms demand immediate attention and require notification of the highest level of supervisory personnel. Conditions such as loss of service, loss of one or more remote line switches or line concentrators connected through Direct Digital Interface, loss of network control, and loss of computer program in all processors shall produce catastrophic alarms.

(B) Major alarms demand rapid action. Conditions such as loss of one or more groups of subscribers or trunk ports, blown fuses for common groups of channels, loss of control to groups of channels, failure of one or both redundant units, and total loss of battery charging current for more than 15 minutes shall produce major alarms.

(C) Minor alarms indicate nonemergency conditions which cause degraded service or fault conditions which causes the system to operate within less-than-optimum performance. Conditions discovered in automatic routining which have not shown in the operation of the equipment but require attention and cumulative line lockout (level adjustable) are examples of minor alarm conditions.

(iii) When the office is arranged for unattended operation, facilities shall be provided for extending the alarm indications to an attended point.

(iv) When the use of a separate outside plant facility for alarm sending is specified, the nature of the alarm may be indicated to the distant point by machine printout or other display device.

(v) When alarm sending is accomplished over a regular operator office trunk, the operator shall be apprised that the call is an alarm indication by a distinctive tone, as specified by the owner in appendix A of this section. It shall be possible for the operator to determine at any time the presence of a trouble condition by dialing a number set aside for that purpose. This number shall also be accessible from lines classmarked for this feature.

(vi) When the alarm sending circuit seizes an interoffice operator trunk, the operator must dial the alarm checking code over another trunk before the first trunk can be released except where the alarm condition has disappeared first.

(vii) The alarm sending circuit shall have access to two or more trunks if the trunks are used for subscriber traffic.

(viii) An alarm indication of higher priority shall supersede an original alarm indication and reseize an interoffice operator trunk.

(ix) In any group of offices purchased under one contract, the same codes shall be used in each office for alarm checking and test.

(x) When the alarm checking number is dialed, the alarm indications received shall be as follows:

(A) Catastrophic alarm-No tone.

(B) Major alarm-Continuous busy tone 60 IPM, unless alarm is overridden.

(C) Minor alarm-Continuous 1-ring code ringback tone, unless alarm is overridden.

(D) No trouble-Continuous 2-ring code ringback tone, unless alarm is overridden.

(xi) Audible and visual local alarms and transmitted alarms shall be provided as follows:

(xii) The central office alarm circuits shall be arranged to provide optional wiring to transmit either a minor alarm or a major alarm and a printout to accommodate various types of trunk and subscriber carrier systems, microwave, mobile radio, other transmission systems, and environmental protection systems with different priorities when a set of contacts is closed in the equipment of such systems and the alarm checking code is dialed. The alarm relay shall be furnished by the supplier of the carrier multiplex and/or mobile radio equipment. The option or options shall be specified by the owner.
