
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Maintenance system.

(ii)(A) The maintenance system shall monitor and maintain the system operation without interruption of call processing, except for major failures.

(B) The maintenance system shall provide both specialized maintenance hardware circuits and an extensive software package to enable maintenance to determine trouble to an individual card or functional group of cards.

(C) Maintenance programs may be both on-line and off-line. On-line maintenance programs are activated by system errors and shall be scheduled to execute call tests during low traffic periods and periodic hardware tests at specific time intervals. Programs shall provide diagnostic tools for the maintenance personnel and be initiated by them.

(D) Scheduled periodic hardware tests shall automatically detect faults and alert maintenance personnel via alarm or appropriate input/output device(s) at local and/or remote locations.

(E) Facilities shall be provided so that test calls can be set up using pre-selected items of switching equipment.

(F) The maintenance personnel shall be able to make tests to determine if every trunk and every item of switching equipment are functioning properly. Also, it shall be possible to make each trunk and each SPC equipment, or part thereof, busy to service calls. Where possible, equipment which is made busy to service calls shall still be accessible for test calls.
