
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### 10

() Supply a reverse polarity key for voltage readings, except when positive or negative values are displayed directly.

(B) An acceptable arrangement for making the tests shown in paragraph (o)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is to have them under software control with results displayed at one of the system's I/O ports.

(C) A howler circuit for maintenance purposes, if ordered by the owner, shall have output tones which do not interfere with the pushbutton or multifrequency signaling tones. The harmonics of the output tones shall be attenuated at least 26 dB below the fundamental frequency for all load conditions. The frequency stability shall be 2 percent or less for all output tones when the unit is operated in the specified load and environmental range. It shall be possible to vary the output voltage (power) of the howler circuit. It shall remove tone and restore the line to service when the telephone instrument receiver is placed on-hook. The frequency of the output shall be chosen to be distinctive and urgent in order to attract the subscriber's attention to an off-hook situation.

(D) When a dial speed test facility is specified by the owner, it shall be accessed by dialing a special code and shall return to the calling station readily identifiable signals to indicate that the dial speed is slow, normal, or fast.

(E) When the office is arranged for pushbutton dialing, optional facilities shall be provided for testing the pushbutton dialing equipment at the subscriber station.

(F) When a system for testing subscriber lines in remote offices from a test position in a centrally located office is specified by the owner, it shall be capable of working with all the central offices and RST's in the remote areas. This testing equipment shall preferably be solid-state with a minimum of electromechanical devices and shall operate from central office battery. It shall be capable of working over any voice grade telephone circuit and shall not require a dedicated trunk. There shall be no interference to or from "in-band" voice channel tones. When used over a network, the verification or access shall be guarded to prevent unauthorized access by subscribers. Access to this system shall only be available to the test operator in all cases.
