
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Grade of service.

(2)(i) Grade of service specifies the expected performance when there are adequate service facilities for an assumed volume of traffic. It is expressed as a portion of the total traffic during a busy hour that cannot be terminated immediately or within a predetermined time period due to congestion. This places responsibility on the traffic engineers to specify facilities which will be entirely satisfactory to the users and which can be equipped at a price which will be accepted as reasonable.

(ii) The number of calls encountering dial tone delay in excess of 3 seconds, measured over the busy hour of the four high-consecutive week (4HW) period, shall not be more than 1.5 percent.

(iii) The average post dialing delay objective for an intraoffice call shall not exceed 1 second. This includes all connect, operate, and translation time.

(iv) The line to line (intraoffice) network matching loss objective shall be 0.02 or less.

(v) The blocking probabilities related to trunks include both "mismatch" probability and probability of "all trunks busy." It is likely that the "mismatch" will be negligible in that many digital central offices have essentially nonblocking switching characteristics. The objectives for trunk connections are as follows:

(A) Subscriber to outgoing trunk objective 0.01 or less;

(B) Incoming trunk to subscriber objective 0.02 or less; and

(C) Local trunk tandem objective 0.01 or less.

(vi) Groups of common service circuits are to be engineered utilizing the full availability traffic tables that appear in paragraph (p)(1)(i) of this section at the following stipulated probabilities:

(A) Outgoing trunks to 2/6 MF or dial pulse senders at B.001;

(B) Incoming trunks to 2/6 MF receivers at B.001;

(C) Incoming nondelay dial trunks to receivers at B.001; and

(D) Incoming trunks with start dial at B.01.

(vii) Remote Switching Terminals (RST's) shall meet the same grade of service objectives as the host.
