
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Traffic,General engineering guidelines.

(p)-(1)(i) The Traffic Table, based on the Erlang Lost-Calls-Cleared Formula, shall be used for determining the quantity of intraoffice paths, registers, and senders where full availability conditions apply. The following table shows the traffic capacity in CCS for 1 to 200 trunks at nine grades of service.

(ii) The traffic capacity for all interoffice trunks shall be based on full availability, even though the distant office itself is not engineered to provide full availability access.

(iii) The Traffic Table may also be used to determine the approximate traffic capacity of high-usage intertoll trunks. The traffic offered to high-usage groups may be read at B.10, signifying that 10 percent of the traffic overflows to the alternate route. This approximates the HU12 table used by AT&T.

(iv) In reading the trunk quantity from the table, the higher quantity shall be used when the CCS load is three or more CCS over the lower quantity. For example, the number of trunks justified for 294 CCS at B.005 is 16, but for 295 CCS 17 trunks are justified.

(v) Limited availability is not permitted.

(vi) The traffic capacity in the following table should be used for small trunk groups such as pay station, special service trunks, intercept, and PBX trunks, unless otherwise specified in appendix A of this section:

(vii) The percentage of lines equipped for pushbutton dialing is to be used to determine the number of tone receivers. Local registers, if required, shall be supplied on the basis of all dial pulse.
