
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Transmission testing.

(3)(i) When transmission test circuits are specified in Item 11.3 of appendix A of this section, they shall permit testing of trunks by a distant office without any assistance in the local dial office. Analog test ports shall meet appropriate trunk requirements. If Centralized Automatic Reporting on Trunks (CAROT), or equivalent, is to be used, the equipment at the end office shall comply with Bellcore document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks-1990, section 8, Item 2.

(ii) Transmission test circuits are available with a variety of options. These include single frequency and multifrequency tone generators with one or more generator output terminals, quiet terminations, and loop around test arrangements for both one-way and two-way trunks.

(iii) Where multifrequency generators are used, they are usually arranged to provide a minimum of three frequencies. With some equipment, up to seven additional frequencies may be provided if needed. No industry standardization of test frequencies is as yet provided. Therefore, it is important that the selection of frequencies, the order in which they are applied and the time interval for application of each frequency be agreed upon by the connecting company and the RUS borrower and listed in appendix A of this section in those situations where connecting companies request the installation of multifrequency generators in borrowers' central offices.

(iv) The milliwatt generator shall be solid-state and generate the analog or digital equivalent of 1004 Hz. The milliwatt generator shall be assigned to a 4-wire analog test port or be digitally generated. All 2-wire and 4-wire voice frequency ports are at a nominal 0 dBm0 level. The level of the 1004 Hz tone generator shall appear at outgoing 2-wire and 4-wire ports at 0 dBm +/-0.5 dB. For direct digital connections, the encoded output shall be the digital equivalent of a 0 dBm0 +/-0.5 dB signal.

(v) Reference tone generators can be used individually or they can be part of a loop around test arrangement. If both single frequency and multifrequency reference tone generators are to be provided, only one can be arranged as part of a loop around test. Where a loop around arrangement is provided, the generator output can be obtained by dialing singly one of the two line terminals. By dialing the other line terminal singly, usually a 900 ohm resistor in series with a 2.16 microfarad capacitor is connected to the circuit under test to act as a "quiet termination" for noise measurements and other tests. Whenever both line terminals are held simultaneously, both the milliwatt supply and the quiet termination shall be lifted off and a "loop around" condition established. This permits the overall loss to be determined from the distant office by going out over one trunk, looping around in the end office and returning over the other trunk. The insertion loss of this test arrangement when used in a loop around configuration should not exceed 0.1 dB at the frequencies specified for the milliwatt supply. Unless otherwise specified, continuous off-hook supervision is to be provided on both line terminals to prevent collusive calling without charge. It will be permissible to accomplish the quiet termination by opening the 4-wire path internally and to accomplish the loop around by digital switching.

(vi) Provision shall be made so that the milliwatt supply can be manually patched to circuits.

(vii) Test jack access shall be provided for all interoffice trunks of the voice frequency type. The jack access shall be properly designated for line, drop, monitor, and signaling leads plus any other jacks as requested by the owner. This may be accomplished by a set of jacks located at the maintenance center which have access to each trunk on a switching basis.
