
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Service delay

(E)measurements shall provide percentage counts of the calls for a particular service that are delayed beyond a specified interval of time, e.g., calls not receiving dial tone within 3 seconds after call origination.

(ii) Traffic data shall be stored in electronic storage registers or block of memory consisting of one or more traffic counters for each item to be measured. The registers listed in paragraph (p)(4)(i) of this section shall be associated with the interoffice trunks, switching network and central control equipment in such a manner that the register readings can be used to determine the traffic load and flow to, from and within the system. Two-way trunks shall be metered to indicate inward and outward seizures. The bidder shall indicate what registers are to be supplied and their purpose.

(iii) The measured data shall be shown on a printout. It should be possible to have local or remote printout, or both. Arrangement shall be made for automatic data printout on command for 15-, 30-, or 60-minute intervals as required, and be arranged for automatic start-stop and in accordance with revenue separation procedures current at the time of contract.

(iv) All traffic records shall have dates and times and office identification.
