
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Return loss.

(7)(i) The specified return loss values are determined by the service and type of port at the measuring (near) end. Two-wire ports are measured (near end) at 900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarads and 4-wire ports are measured at 600 ohms resistive.

(ii) Far end test terminations shall be as follows:

(A) Loaded line circuit-1650 ohms in parallel with the series combination of .005 microfarads and 100 ohms;

(B) Nonloaded line circuit-800 ohms in parallel with the series combination of .05 microfarads and 100 ohms;

(C) Special service line circuit including electronic lines and carrier lines-900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarads;

(D) Two-wire trunk-900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarads; and

(E) Four-wire trunk-600 ohms.

(iii) For trunk-to-trunk (2-wire or 4-wire) connections the echo return loss (ERL) shall be 27 dB, minimum and the singing return loss (SRL) shall be 20 dB, minimum low and 23 dB, minimum high.

(iv) For trunk-to-line (2-wire or 4-wire) connections the ERL shall be 24 dB, minimum and the SRL shall be 17 dB, minimum low and 20 dB, minimum high.

(v) For line-to-line or line-to-trunk (2-wire or 4-wire) connections the ERL shall be 18 dB, minimum and the SRL shall be 12 dB, minimum low and 15 dB, minimum high.
