
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Charging equipment.

(3)(i) Charging shall be on a full float basis. The rectifiers shall be of the full wave, self-regulating, constant voltage, solid-state type and shall be capable of being turned on and off manually.

(ii) When charging batteries, the voltage at the battery terminals shall be adjustable and shall be set at the value recommended for the particular battery being charged, providing it is not above the maximum operating voltage of the switching system equipment. The voltage shall not vary more than plus or minus 0.02 volt per cell between 10 percent load and 100 percent load. Between 3 percent and 10 percent load, the output voltage shall not vary more than plus or minus 0.04 volt per cell. Beyond full load current, the output voltage shall drop sharply. The output voltage shall be maintained with the line voltage variations of plus or minus 10 percent. Provision shall be made to change the output voltage of the rectifier manually to 2.25 volts per cell to provide an equalization charge on the battery.

(iii) The charger noise shall not exceed 22 dBrnC when measured with a suitable noise measuring set and under the rated battery capacitance and load conditions as determined in Figure 2.

(iv) The charging equipment shall indicate a failure of charging current, whether due to ac power failure, an internal failure in the charger, or to other circumstances which might cause the output voltage of the charger to drop below the battery voltage. Where a supplementary constant current charger is used, an alarm shall be provided to indicate a failure of the charger.

(v) Audible noise developed by the charging equipment shall be kept to a minimum. Acoustic noise resulting from operation of the rectifier shall be expressed in terms of dB indicated on a sound level meter conforming to ANSI S1.4-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters, and shall not exceed 65 dB (A-weighting) measured at any point 5 feet (152.4 cm) from any vertical surface of the rectifier.

(vi) The charging equipment shall be designed so that neither the charger nor the central office switching equipment is subject to damage in case the battery circuit is opened for any value of load within the normal limits.

(vii) The charging equipment shall have a capacity to meet the requirements of central office size and special requirements of the owner in appendix A of this section.

(viii) Minimum equipment requirement for chargers is one of the following:

(A) Two chargers either capable of carrying the full office load as specified in Item 12 of appendix A of this section; or

(B) Three chargers each capable of carrying half the office load as specified in Item 12 of appendix A of this section.
