
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Miscellaneous voltage supplies.

(4)(i) Any power supply required for voltages other than the primary battery voltage shall be provided by either a solid-state dc-to-dc converter or dc-to-ac inverter, operating from the central office battery or from a separate battery and charger. These power supplies shall meet the noise limit specified for chargers in paragraph (s)(3)(iii) of this section, except the capacitor "C" shall be eliminated and the resistive load "R" shall be determined by the nominal output voltage in volts divided by the full load current rating in amperes. This requirement does not preclude the use of commercial ac power to operate input/output devices.

(ii) Power converters required for the purpose of providing various operating voltages to printed circuit boards or similar equipment employing electronic components shall be provided in duplicate with each unit capable of immediately assuming the full operating load upon failure of a unit. An exception to the duplicate power converter requirement permits nonduplicated power converter(s) to be utilized where there is full compliance with the following criteria.

(A) The failure of any single nonduplicated power converter shall not reduce the grade of service of common control and service circuits to any individual line or trunk by more than 50 percent.

(B) The failure of any single nonduplicated power converter shall not reduce the traffic carrying capacity of any interoffice trunk group by more than 50 percent.

(C) In central office switching systems of 400 or more equipped lines, any single nonduplicated power converter failure shall not cause a complete loss of service to more than 100 equipped lines.

(D) In central office switching systems of less than 400 equipped lines, any single nonduplicated power converter failure shall not cause a complete loss of service to more than 25 percent of the total equipped lines.
