
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Batteries.

(2)(i) When battery cells of the lead antimony type are specified, the pasted plate type shall be considered adequate.

(ii) When lead calcium cells are specified, no cell shall differ from the average voltage of the string of fully charged cells by more than +/-0.03 volt when measured at a charging rate in amperes equivalent to 10 percent of the ampere hour capacity of the cells. Similarly, when cells are fully charged and floating between 2.30 and 2.33 volts per cell, the cell voltage of any cell in a given string shall not differ more than +/-0.03 volt from the average. These requirements are for test purposes only and do not apply to operating conditions.

(iii) Voltage readings shall be corrected by a temperature coefficient of 0.0033 volt per degree F (0.006 per degree C), whenever temperature variations exist between cells in a given string. This correction factor shall also be applied when comparing cell voltages taken at different times and at different temperatures. The correction factor shall be added to the measured voltage when the temperature is above 77 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C) and subtracted when the temperature is below 77 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C).

(iv) The specific gravity readings of lead antimony cells at full charge shall be 1.210 +/-.010 at 77 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C) at maximum electrolyte height.

(v) When counter cells are supplied by the bidder, they shall be the dry counter electromotive force (CEMF) type.

(vi) When lead antimony batteries are specified, they shall be designed to last a minimum of 10 years when maintained on a full float operation between 2.15 and 2.17 volts per cell. When lead calcium batteries are specified, they shall be designed to last a minimum of 20 years when maintained on full float operation between 2.17 and 2.25 volts per cell. The battery shall be clearly designated as "antimony" or "calcium" by means of stencils, decals or other devices.

(vii) Each battery cell shall be equipped with an explosion control device.

(viii) The battery size shall be calculated in accordance with standard procedures. The battery in no case shall have a reserve capacity in ampere hours less than four times the current capacity of the largest charger.
