
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Main distributing frames.

(t)(1) The main distributing frame shall provide terminals for terminating all incoming cable pairs. Arresters shall be provided for all incoming cable pairs, or for a smaller number of pairs if specified, provided an acceptable means of temporarily grounding all terminated pairs which are not equipped with arresters is furnished.

(2) The current carrying capacity of each arrester and its associated mounting shall coordinate with a #22 gauge copper conductor without causing a self-sustaining fire or permanently damaging other arrester positions. Where all cable pairs entering the central office are #24 gauge or finer, the arresters and mountings need only coordinate with #24 gauge cable conductors. Item 13 of appendix A of this section designates the gauge of the cable conductors serving the host office. Item 7 of appendix B of this section designates the gauge of the cable conductors serving the RST(s).

(3) Central office protectors shall be mounted and arranged so that outside cable pairs may be terminated on the left side of protectors (when facing the vertical side of the MDF) or on the back surface of the protectors. Means for easy identification of pairs shall be provided.

(4) Protectors shall have a "dead front" (either insulated or grounded) whereby live metal parts are not readily accessible.

(5) Protectors shall be provided with an accessible terminal of each incoming conductor which is suitable for the attachment of a temporary test lead. They shall also be constructed so that auxiliary test fixtures may be applied to open and test the subscriber's circuit in either direction. Terminals shall be tinned or plated and shall be suitable for wire wrapped, insulation displacement or connectorized connections.

(6) If specified in appendix A of this section, each protector group shall be furnished with a factory assembled tip cable for splicing to the entrance cable; the tip cable to be 20 feet (610 cm) in length unless otherwise specified. Factory assembled tip cable shall be #22 gauge and selected from RUS Bulletin 1755I-100, List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers. Tip cable requirements are provided in RUS Bulletin 345-87, PE-87, RUS Specification for Terminating (TIP) Cable. Cables having other kinds of insulation and jackets which have equivalent resistance to fire and which produce less smoke and toxic fumes may be used if specifically approved by RUS.

(7) Protectors shall be mounted on vertical supports, with centers not exceeding 9 inches (22.9 cm). The space between protector units shall be adequate for terminating conductors.

(8) Cable supporting framework shall be provided between the cable entrance and the MDF when overhead cable entrance is specified in Item 14.3.3 of appendix A of this section.

(9) The main distributing frame shall be equipped with a copper ground bus bar having the conductivity of a #6 American Wire Gauge (AWG) copper conductor or a greater conductivity, or may consist of another metal if specifically approved, provided it has adequate cross-sectional area to provide conductivity equivalent to, or better than, bare copper. A guardrail or equivalent shall also be furnished.

(10) Other features not specified in paragraph (t) of this section may be required at the option of the owner, if checked in Item 13.4 of appendix A of this section.

(11) Main frame protector makes and types shall be selected only from RUS Bulletin 1755I-100, List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers. Protectors shall be capable of easy removal.
