
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Output voltage.

(ii)(A) The ringing generators shall have an output voltage which approximates a sine wave and, as a minimum, shall be suitable for ringing straight-line ringers. Although not a requirement for RUS listing, decimonic, synchromonic, or harmonic ringing may also be specified in appendix A of this section.

(B) The ringing generator shall obtain its energy from the nominal 48-volt office battery.

(C) The output of each generator shall have three or more voltage taps or a single tap with associated variable control. Taps or control shall be easily accessible as installed in the field. Software control of ringing generator outputs via I/O devices may be provided in lieu of taps. The taps, or equivalent, shall be designated L, M, and H. The variable control shall have a locking device to prevent accidental readjustment. The outputs at the terminals of the generators with a voltage input of 52.1 volts and rated full resistive load shall be as follows for the ringing frequencies provided:

(D) No voltages in excess of the values in column H of the table in paragraph (s)(5)(ii)(C) of this section shall be provided at the output taps. Additional intermediate and/or lower taps may be provided without restriction.
