
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Two categories of surge tests.

(iii)(A) Current surge tests simulate the stress to which a relatively low impedance path may be subjected before main frame protectors break down. Paths with a 100 Hz impedance of 50 ohms or less shall be subjected to current surges, employing a 10 x 1000 microseconds waveshape as defined in Figure 4. For the purpose of determining this impedance, arresters which are mounted within the equipment are to be considered zero impedance. The crest current shall not exceed 500A; however, depending on the impedance of the test specimen this value of current may be lower. The crest current through the sample, multiplied by the sample's 100 Hz impedance, shall not exceed 1000 volts (V). Where sample impedance is less than two ohms, crest current shall be limited to 500A as shown in Figure 5.

(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) current-carrying tests should be applied to simulate an ac power fault which is conducted to the unit over the cable pairs. The test should be limited to 10 amperes rms at 60 Hz for a period of 11 cycles (0.1835 seconds) and should be applied longitudinally from line to ground (see Figures 3 and 6 of this section).

(C) AC power service surge voltage tests should be applied to the power input terminals of ac powered devices to simulate switching surges or lightning-induced transients on the ac power system. The test shall employ a 1.2 x 50 microseconds waveshape with a crest voltage of 2500V. Communications line protectors may be left in place for this test. Borrowers are urged to install commercially available surge protectors at the ac service entrance as part of their COE building program.

(D) Voltage surge tests simulate the voltage stress to which a relatively high impedance path may be subjected before primary protectors break down and protect the circuit. To assure coordination with the primary protection while reducing testing to the minimum, voltage surge tests should be conducted at a 1000 volts with primary arresters removed for devices protected by carbon blocks, or the + 3 sigma dc breakdown of other primary arresters. Surge waveshape should be 10 x 1000 microseconds.

(E) Arrester response delay tests are designed to stress the equipment in a manner similar to that caused by the delayed breakdown of gap type arresters when subjected to rapidly rising voltages. Arresters shall be removed for these tests, the peak surge voltage should be the + 3 sigma breakdown of the arrester in question on a voltage rising at 100V per microsecond and the time for the surge to decay to half voltage shall equal at least the delay time of the tube, as explained in Figure 7.

(iv) Five applications of each polarity for the surge tests and three for the 60 Hz Current Carrying Test are the minimum required. All tests should be conducted with not more than 1 minute between consecutive applications in each series of three or five to a specific configuration so that heating effects will be cumulative. As not all tests are required in every application, nonapplicable tests should be omitted. Tests should be conducted in the following sequence.

(A) Current Impulse Test.

(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) Current Carrying Test.

(C) AC Power Service Impulse Voltage Test.

(D) Voltage Impulse Test.

(E) Arrester Response Delay Test.

(v) Tests should be applied between each of the following terminal combinations for all line operating conditions.

(A) Line tip to ring.

(B) Line ring to ground.

(C) Line tip to ground.

(D) Line tip to ring tied together to ground.
