
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Electrical protection,Surge protection.

(u)-(1)(i) Adequate electrical protection of central office switching equipment shall be included in the design of the system. The characteristics and application of protection devices shall be such that they enable the central office switching equipment to withstand, without damage or excessive protector maintenance, the dielectric stresses and currents that are produced in line-to-ground and tip-to-ring circuits through the equipment as a result of induced or conducted lightning or power system fault-related surges. All wire terminals connected to outside plant wire or cable pairs shall be protected from voltage and current surges.

(ii) Central office switching equipment shall pass laboratory tests, simulating the hostile electrical environment, before being placed in the field for the purpose of obtaining field experience. There are five basic types of laboratory tests which shall be applied to exposed terminals in an effort to determine if the equipment will survive. Figure 3 summarizes these tests and the minimum acceptable levels of protection for equipment to pass them.
