
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Spare parts.

(6)(i) The spare parts bid price shall be based upon the required quantities of spares shown in Item 6.2 of appendix C of this section, and shall be added to the base bid for comparison purposes in awarding the bid. It is the supplier's responsibility to provide all spares required by this section. If the supplier neglects to list certain spare parts in Item 6.2 of appendix C of this section, but they are necessary to comply with this section, they shall be provided by the supplier at no additional cost to the owner.

(A) "Units" are defined as user replaceable components used in the central office equipment. "Spare Parts" are direct replacements for units. Spare parts are necessary for the maintenance and diagnostic operations where the suspected faulty unit may be removed and a spare part substituted in anticipation that the trouble will be cleared.

(B) Examples of units for which spare parts should be furnished are printed circuit cards; circuit pack assemblies; fuses; and power supplies.

(C) Spare parts are not required as part of this addendum for items such as connectorized cables, nuts, bolts, and similar hardware; nor for items which can be obtained from sources other than the bidder such as battery cells, chargers, powerboards, magnetic tape transport assemblies, disk drives, ringing machines, recorded announcement machines, loop extenders and voice frequency repeaters, fire bars, teletypewriters, and video monitors.

(D) When 100 or more like units are used in the hosts and RST's to be bid, the quantity of spares to be furnished is determined by multiplying the total number of like units in the contract by .05 or .03, as applicable, and rounding off to the next lowest integer. For example, 119 Class 1 units require five spares; 120 require six.

(E) When alternates are required, the price of the spare parts for the alternates shall be included with the price of the alternate.

(F) For equipment in which the line cards consist of a number of plug-in "daughter" boards on a "mother" board, the line card is defined as the "daughter" board unit. In a similar manner for those designs which have line cards backed up by a "control card," the "control card" is not, by definition, a line card.

(G) The quantities of spare parts determined in paragraph (x)(6)(vi) of this section are a minimum quantity. The bidder may add quantities of spare parts to bring the number of spare parts up to the bidder's list of spare parts necessary for proper operation in the field.

(ii) A Class 1 unit does not have automatic transfer to a redundant or standby pool of identical units, and provides any function for 24 or more lines or trunks or for all trunks in a group. Nonredundant digital trunk interfaces are included in this category.

(iii) A Class 2 unit has automatic transfer to a redundant or standby pool of identical units, and provides any function for 24 or more lines or trunks or for all trunks in a group. Redundant digital trunk interfaces and units of a redundant stored program processor are included in this category.

(iv) A Class 3 unit does not have automatic transfer to a redundant or standby pool of identical units and provides any function for no more than 23 lines or trunks or for less than all trunks in a group. Nonredundant analog trunks are included in this category. Excluded from this category are line cards, which are in Class 4.

(v) A Class 4 unit has automatic transfer to a redundant or standby pool of identical units and provides any function for no more than 23 lines or trunks or for less than all trunks in a group. Also, any line cards are in Class 4.

(vi) The spare parts for all of the hosts and the RST's included in this contract shall be provided as follows:

(vii) As a part of the response to the bid, the supplier shall furnish a list of units used by class and a list of spare parts to be furnished with this contract. This list shall be placed in Item 6.2 of appendix C of this section for only one of the host specifications included in the entire contract.
