
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Responsibilities of the bidder,Central office layout.

(x)-(1)(i) The successful bidder shall furnish tentative floor plan layout drawings showing the arrangement of the equipment and the dimensions of major equipment units. These drawings shall include minimum door dimensions and ceiling heights required for installation, maintenance and ventilation. If requested by the owner, the floor plan shall be such that the battery, charger, power board, main distributing frame and wire chief's test equipment are isolated from the other equipment by a partition.

(ii) The layout drawings shall also show provision for the ultimate capacity of the central office as specified by the owner.

(iii) After approval by the owner of the tentative floor plan, and within 10 calendar days after approval of the contract by the Administrator, the owner shall furnish the bidder the necessary data on the actual floor plan. Within 20 calendar days after receiving the necessary building data, the bidder shall then supply floor plan drawings showing exact locations of all equipment, both initial and ultimate, including points where connection to commercial power are required, with voltage and wattage indicated at each point. Within 20 calendar days after receiving the floor plan drawings from the bidder, the owner shall approve these drawings or take the necessary steps to have the drawings changed to meet his approval. The layout planning must be so coordinated between the owner and the bidder as not to delay the scheduled equipment installation date.
