
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.522 RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
###### Grounding system audit.

(5)(i) A grounding system audit shall be performed to ensure that a viable single-point grounding system is in place prior to the time the switching system is placed into full service operation. It is suggested that such an audit be conducted at the time the switching system is ready for turnover to the owner.

(ii) This single-point grounding system audit is to be conducted by authorized representatives of the supplier and owner, and with the RUS general field representative participating at his discretion.

(iii) The single-point grounding system audit is to be conducted using the checklist contained in appendix D of this section.

(iv) Appendix D of this section shall be the principal single-point grounding system audit guideline document. A supplemental checklist may be prepared and provided by the switching system supplier which recognizes unique grounding requirements related to their particular switching system. The scope of this supplier checklist is to be confined to unique and specific switching system requirements only. Acceptable supplier supplemental grounding checklist must have prior approval of and be on file with the Central Office Equipment Branch of the Telecommunications Standards Division of RUS.

(v) It is the responsibility of the central office supplier to ensure that the grounding system evaluation criteria contained in the combination of the appendix D checklist of this section and their optional supplemental checklist adequately fulfill requirements for warranty coverage.

(vi) All deficiencies in the single-point grounding system are to be corrected prior to the switching system being placed into full service operation. Exceptions are permitted only by mutual agreement of the owner and supplier and with written approval of the RUS general field representative.

(vii) The acceptance statement facesheet of the audit checklist in appendix D of this section shall be signed by authorized representatives of the supplier and owner to indicate mutual approval of the single-point grounding system. Copies of all completed grounding system audit documents are to be provided to the supplier, owner and appropriate RUS telephone program regional offices.
