
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.701 Scope.

(a) This section covers the requirements for aerial service wires intended for aerial subscriber drops.

(b) The aerial service wires can be either copper coated steel reinforced or nonmetallic reinforced designs.

(c) For the copper coated steel reinforced design, the reinforcing members are the conductors.

(1) The conductors are solid copper-covered steel wires.

(2) The wire structure is completed by insulating the conductors with an overall extruded plastic insulating compound.

(d) For the nonmetallic reinforced design, the conductors are solid copper individually insulated with an extruded solid insulating compound.

(1) The insulated conductors are either laid parallel (two conductor design only) or twisted into pairs (a star-quad configuration is permitted for two pair wires).

(2) The wire structure is completed by the application of nonmetallic reinforcing members and an overall plastic jacket.

(e) All wires sold to RUS borrowers for projects involving RUS loan funds under §§ 1755.700 through 1755.704 must be accepted by RUS Technical Standards Committee "A" (Telecommunications). For wires manufactured to the specification of §§ 1755.700 through 1755.704, all design changes to an accepted design must be submitted for acceptance. RUS will be the sole authority on what constitutes a design change.

(f) Materials, manufacturing techniques, or wire designs not specifically addressed by §§ 1755.700 through 1755.704 may be allowed if accepted by RUS. Justification for acceptance of modified materials, manufacturing techniques, or wire designs must be provided to substantiate product utility and long term stability and endurance.
