
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.704 Requirements applicable to both CCSR and NMR aerial service wires.
###### Acceptance testing.

(a)(1) The tests described in §§ 1755.700 through 1755.704 are intended for acceptance of wire designs and major modifications of accepted designs. What constitutes a major modification is at the discretion of RUS. These tests are intended to show the inherent capability of the manufacturer to produce wire products having long life and stability.

(2) For initial acceptance, the manufacturer shall:

(i) Certify that the product fully complies with each paragraph in §§ 1755.700 through 1755.704;

(ii) Agree to periodic plant inspections by RUS;

(iii) Certify whether the product complies with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions of the "Buy American" requirements of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 903 note), as amended (the "REA Buy-American provision");

(iv) Submit at least three written user testimonials concerning field performance of the product; and

(v) Provide any other nonpropriety data deemed necessary by the Chief, Outside Plant Branch (Telecommunications).

(3) In order for RUS to consider a manufacturer's request that a product be requalified, the manufacturer shall certify not later than June 30 of the year in which requalification is required, that the product:

(i) Fully complies with each paragraph in §§ 1755.700 through 1755.704; and

(ii) Does or does not comply with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions of the REA Buy American provisions. The required certifications shall be dated within 90 days of the submission.

(4) Initial and requalification acceptance requests should be addresses to: Chairman, Technical Standards Committee "A" (Telecommunications), Telecommunications Standards Division, Rural Utilities Service, AG Box 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598.
