
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Scope.

(a)(1) This section covers the requirements for filled buried wires intended for direct burial as a subscriber drop and/or distribution wire.

(i) The conductors are solid copper, individually insulated with an extruded solid insulating compound.

(ii) The insulated conductors are twisted into pairs (a star-quad configuration is permitted for the two pair wires) which are then stranded or oscillated to form a cylindrical core.

(iii) A moisture resistant filling compound is applied to the stranded conductors completely covering the insulated conductors and filling the interstices between the pairs.

(iv) The wire structure is completed by the application of an optional core wrapping material, an inner jacket, a flooding compound, a shield, a flooding compound, and an overall plastic jacket.

(2) The number of pairs and gauge size of conductors which are used within the RUS program are provided in the following table:

(3) All wires sold to RUS borrowers for projects involving RUS loan funds under this section must be accepted by RUS Technical Standards Committee "A" (Telephone). For wires manufactured to the specification of this section, all design changes to an accepted design must be submitted for acceptance. RUS will be the sole authority on what constitutes a design change.

(4) Materials, manufacturing techniques, or wire designs not specifically addressed by this section may be allowed if accepted by RUS. Justification for acceptance of modified materials, manufacturing techniques, or wire designs must be provided to substantiate product utility and long term stability and endurance.
