
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.704 Requirements applicable to both CCSR and NMR aerial service wires.
###### Preparation for shipment.

(f)(1) CCSR and NMR aerial service wire shall be shipped either in coils or on reels.

(2) When CCSR and NMR aerial service wires are shipped on reels the following provisions shall apply:

(i) The diameter of the drum shall be large enough to prevent damage to the wire from reeling or unreeling. The reels shall be substantial and so constructed as to prevent damage to the wire during shipment and handling;

(ii) A waterproof corrugated board or other suitable means of protection accepted by RUS prior to its use may be applied to the reel. If the waterproof corrugated board or other suitable material is used for protection, it shall be suitably secured in place to prevent damage to the wire during storage and handling. The use of the waterproof corrugated board or other suitable means of protection shall be at the option of the manufacturer unless specified by the end user;

(iii) The outer end of the wire shall be securely fastened to the reel head so as to prevent the wire from becoming loose in transit. The inner end of the wire shall be securely fastened in such a way as to make it readily available if required for electrical testing. Spikes, staples, or other fastening devices which penetrate the conductor insulation of the CCSR aerial service wire and the jacket of the NMR aerial service wire shall not be used. The method of fastening the wire ends shall be accepted by RUS prior to their use;

(iv) Each length of wire shall be wound on a separate reel;

(v) Each reel shall be plainly marked to indicate the direction in which it should be rolled to prevent loosening of the wire on the reel; and

(vi) Each reel shall be stenciled or labeled on either one or both sides with the following information:

(A) Customer order number;

(B) Manufacturer's name and product code;

(C) Factory reel number and year of manufacture;

(D) Gauge of conductors and pair size of wire;

(E) Length of wire; and

(F) RUS designation letter "K."

(3) When CCSR and NMR aerial service wires are shipped in coils the following provisions shall apply:

(i) The diameter of the coil shall be large enough to prevent damage to the wire from coiling or uncoiling;

(ii) The nominal length of the wire in a coil shall be 305 meters (1,000 feet). No coil shall be less than 290 meters (950 feet) long or more than 460 meters (1,500 feet) long; however, 25 percent of the total number of coils may be less than 305 meters (1,000 feet);

(iii) The coils of wire shall be wound securely with strong tape in four separate evenly spaced places;

(iv) The coils may be protected from damage by wrapping the coil with heavy paper, burlap, or other suitable material accepted by RUS prior to its use. The use of the heavy paper, burlap, or other suitable means of protection shall be at the option of the manufacturer unless specified by the end user; and

(v) Each coil shall be tagged with the following information:

(A) Customer order number;

(B) Manufacturer's name and product code;

(C) Year of manufacture;

(D) Gauge of conductors and pair size of wire;

(E) Length of wire; and

(F) RUS designation letter "K."

(4) In lieu of wrapping the coil with heavy paper, burlap, or other suitable material, the coil may be packaged in a moisture resistant carton.

(5) When the coils are shipped in moisture resistant cartons, each carton shall be marked with the information specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(v)(A) through (f)(3)(v)(F) of this section.

(6) Other methods of shipment may be used if accepted by RUS prior to their use.

(7) When NMR aerial service wire is shipped, the ends of the wire shall be sealed in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-89-648-1993, paragraph 9.2.
