
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Standards of color.

(3)The colors of the insulated conductors supplied in accordance with this section are specified in terms of the Munsell Color System (ASTM D 1535-89) and must comply with the "Table of Wire and Cable Limit Chips" as defined in ANSI/EIA-359-A-84. (Visual color standards meeting these requirements may be obtained directly from the Munsell Color Company, Inc., 2441 North Calvert Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218).

(4) Positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair by marking each conductor of a pair with the color of its mate is permissible. The method of marking must be accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(5) Other methods of providing positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair may be employed if accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(6) The insulated conductors must be twisted into pairs.

(7) In order to provide sufficiently high crosstalk isolation, the pair twists must be designed to enable the wire to meet the capacitance unbalance and the crosstalk loss requirements of paragraphs (m)(2), (m)(3), and (m)(4) of this section.

(8) The average length of pair twists in any pair in the finished wire, when measured on any 3 meter (m) (10 foot(ft)) length, must not exceed 152 mm (6 in.).

(9) An alternative method of forming the two pair wire is the use of a star-quad configuration.

(i) The assembly of the star-quad must be such as to enable the wire to meet the capacitance unbalance and the crosstalk loss requirements of paragraphs (m)(2), (m)(3), and (m)(4) of this section.

(ii) The four individual insulated conductors must be twisted together to form a star-quad configuration with the tip and ring conductors of each pair diagonally opposite each other in the quad.

(iii) The average length of twist for the star-quad in the finished wire, when measured on any 3 m (10 ft) length, must not exceed 152 mm (6 in.).

(iv) The following color scheme must be used to provide identification of the tip and ring conductor of each pair in the star-quad:

(v) If desired, the blue and orange conductors may contain a white stripe. The stripes in this case must be narrow enough so that the tip and ring identification is obvious.
