
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Engineering Information:

(ii)The sizes of wire used and their nominal diameters shall be as shown in the following table:

(5) Each conductor must be insulated with either a colored, solid, insulating grade, high density polyethylene or crystalline propylene/ethylene copolymer or with a solid natural primary layer and a colored, solid outer skin using one of the insulating materials listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(i) The polyethylene raw material selected to meet the requirements of this section must be Type III, Class A, Category 4 or 5, Grade E9, in accordance with ASTM D 1248-84(1989).

(ii) The crystalline propylene/ethylene raw material selected to meet the requirements of this section must be Class PP 200B 40003 E11 in accordance with ASTM D 4101-82(1988).

(iii) Raw materials intended as conductor insulation furnished to these requirements must be free from dirt, metallic particles, and other foreign matter.

(iv) All insulating raw materials must be accepted by RUS prior to their use.

(6) All conductors in any single length of wire must be insulated with the same type of material.

(7) A permissible overall performance level of faults in conductor insulation must average not greater than one fault per 12,000 conductor meters (40,000 conductor feet) for each gauge of conductor.

(i) All insulated conductors must be continuously tested for insulation faults during the twinning operation with the method of test acceptable to RUS. The length count and number of faults must be recorded. The information must be retained for a period of 6 months and be available for review by RUS when requested.

(ii) The voltages for determining compliance with the requirements of this section are as follows:

(8) Repairs to the conductor insulation during manufacturing are permissible. The method of repair must be accepted by RUS prior to its use. The repaired insulation must be capable of meeting the relevant electrical requirements of this section.

(9) All repaired sections of insulation must be retested in the same manner as originally tested for compliance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(10) Colored insulating material removed from or tested on the conductor, from a finished wire, must be capable of meeting the following performance requirements:
