
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Filling compound.

(e)(1) After or during the stranding operation and prior to application of the optional core wrap and inner jacket, a homogeneous filling compound free of agglomerates must be applied to the wire core. The compound must be as nearly colorless as is commercially feasible and consistent with the end product requirements and pair identification.

(2) The filling compound must be free from dirt, metallic particles, and other foreign matter. It must be applied in such a way as to fill the space within the wire core.

(3) The filling compound must be nontoxic and present no dermal hazards.

(4) The filling compound must exhibit the following dielectric properties at a temperature of 23 +/-3 &#xB0;C when measured in accordance with ASTM D 150-87 or ASTM D 4872-88.

(i) The dissipation factor must not exceed 0.0015 at a frequency of 1 megahertz (MHz).

(ii) The dielectric constant must not exceed 2.30.

(5) The volume resistivity must not be less than 10ohm-cm at a temperature of 23 +/-3 &#xB0;C when measured in accordance with ASTM D 257-91 or ASTM D 4872-88.

(6) The individual wire manufacturer must satisfy RUS that the filling compound selected for use is suitable for its intended application. The filling compound must be compatible with the wire components when tested in accordance with ASTM D 4568-86 at a temperature of 80 &#xB0;C.
