
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Outer jacket.

(j)(1) The outer jacket must provide the wire with a tough, flexible, protective covering which can withstand exposure to sunlight, to atmospheric temperatures and stresses reasonably expected in normal installation and service.

(2) The jacket must be free from holes, splits, blisters, or other imperfections and must be as smooth and concentric as is consistent with the best commercial practice.

(3) The raw material used for the outer jacket must be one of the five types listed in paragraphs (j)(3)(i) through (j)(3)(v) of this section. The raw material must contain an antioxidant to provide long term stabilization and the materials must contain a 2.60 +/-0.25 percent concentration of furnace black to provide ultraviolet shielding. Both the antioxidant and furnace black must be compounded into the material by the raw material supplier.

(i) Low density, high molecular weight polyethylene (LDHMW) must conform to the requirements of ASTM D 1248-84(1989), Type I, Class C, Category 4 or 5, Grade J3.

(ii) Low density, high molecular weight ethylene copolymer (LDHMW) must conform to the requirements of ASTM D 1248-84 (1989), Type I, Class C, Category 4 or 5, Grade J3.

(iii) Linear low density, high molecular weight polyethylene (LLDHMW) must conform to the requirements of ASTM D 1248-84(1989), Type I, Class C, Category 4 or 5, Grade J3.

(iv) High density polyethylene (HD) must conform to the requirements of ASTM D 1248-84(1989), Type III, Class C, Category 4 or 5, Grade J4.

(v) Medium density polyethylene (MD) must conform to the requirements of ASTM D 1248-84(1989), Type II, Class C, Category 4 or 5, Grade J4.

(vi) Particle size of the carbon selected for use must not average greater than 20 nanometers.

(vii) Absorption coefficient must be a minimum of 400 in accordance with the procedures of ASTM D 3349-86.

(4) The outer jacketing material removed from or tested on the wire must be capable of meeting the following performance requirements:
