
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Shield.

(i)(1) A shield must be applied either longitudinally or helically over the inner jacket.

(i) If the shield is applied longitudinally, it must be corrugated.

(ii) If the shield is applied helically, it must be smooth.

(2) The overlap for longitudinally applied shields must be a minimum of 2 mm (0.075 in.) The overlap for helically applied shields must be a minimum of 23 percent of the tape width.

(3) General requirements for application of the shielding material are as follows:

(i) Successive lengths of shielding tapes may be joined during the manufacturing process by means of cold weld, electric weld, soldering with a nonacid flux, or other acceptable means;

(ii) Where two ends of a metal shield are to be joined together, care shall be taken to clean the metal surfaces in order to provide for a good mechanical and electrical connection;

(iii) The shields of each length of wire must be tested for continuity. A one meter (3 ft) section of shield containing a factory joint must exhibit not more than 110 percent of the resistance of a shield of equal length without a joint;

(iv) The breaking strength of any section of a shield tape containing a factory joint must not be less than 80 percent of the breaking strength of an adjacent section of the shield of equal length without a joint;

(v) The reduction in thickness of the shielding material due to the corrugating or application process must be kept to a minimum and must not exceed 10 percent at any spot; and

(vi) The shielding material must be applied in such a manner as to enable the wire to pass the bend test as specified in paragraph (n)(3) of this section.

(4) The following materials are acceptable for use as wire shielding:

(i) The copper-clad steels and copper alloy 664 shielding tapes must be capable of meeting the following performance requirements prior to application to the wire:
