
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Identification marker and length marker.

(l)(1) Each length of wire must be permanently identified as to manufacturer and year of manufacture.

(2) The number of conductor pairs and their gauge size must be marked on the jacket.

(3) The marking must be printed on the jacket at regular intervals of not more than 1.5 m (5 ft).

(4) An alternative method of marking may be used if accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(5) The completed wire must have sequentially numbered length markers in FEET OR METERS at regular intervals of not more than 1.5 m (5 ft) along the outside of the jacket.

(6) The method of length marking must be such that for any single length of wire, continuous sequential numbering must be employed.

(7) The numbers must be dimensioned and spaced to produce good legibility and must be approximately 3 mm (0.125 in.) in height. An occasional illegible marking is permissible if there is a legible marking located not more than 1.5 m (5 ft) from it.

(8) The method of marking must be by means of suitable surface markings producing a clear, distinguishable, contrasting marking acceptable to RUS. Where direct or transverse printing is employed, the characters should be indented to produce greater durability of marking. Any other method of length marking must be acceptable to RUS as producing a marker suitable for the field. Size, shape and spacing of numbers, durability, and overall legibility of the marker will be considered in acceptance of the method.

(9) The accuracy of the length marking must be such that the actual length of any wire section is never less than the length indicated by the marking and never more than one percent greater than the length indicated by the marking.

(10) The color of the initial marking must be white or silver. If the initial marking fails to meet the requirements of the preceding paragraphs, it will be permissible to either remove the defective marking and re-mark with the white or silver color or leave the defective marking on the wire and re-mark with yellow. No further re-marking is permitted. Any re-marking must be on a different portion of the wire circumference than any existing marking when possible and have a numbering sequence differing from any other existing marking by at least 5,000.

(11) Any reel of wire which contains more than one set of sequential markings must be labeled to indicate the color and sequence of marking to be used. The labeling must be applied to the reel and also to the wire.
