
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### Preparation for shipment.

(r)(1) The wire must be shipped on reels. The diameter of the drum must be large enough to prevent damage to the wire from reeling or unreeling. The reels must be substantial and so constructed as to prevent damage to the wire during shipment and handling.

(2) The thermal wrap must comply with the requirements of appendix C of this section. When a thermal reel wrap is supplied, the wrap must be applied to the reel and must be suitably secured in place to minimize thermal exposure to the wire during storage and shipment. The use of the thermal reel wrap as a means of reel protection will be at the option of the manufacturer unless specified by the end user.

(3) The outer end of the wire must be securely fastened to the reel head so as to prevent the wire from becoming loose in transit. The inner end of the wire must be securely fastened in such a way as to make it readily available if required for electrical testing. Spikes, staples, or other fastening devices which penetrate the wire jacket must not be used. The method of fastening the wire ends must be accepted by RUS prior to it being used.

(4) Each length of wire must be wound on a separate reel unless otherwise specified or agreed to by the purchaser.

(5) Each reel must be plainly marked to indicate the direction in which it should be rolled to prevent loosening of the wire on the reel.

(6) Each reel must be stenciled or labeled on either one or both sides with the name of the manufacturer, year of manufacture, actual shipping length, an inner and outer end sequential length marking, description of the wire, reel number and the RUS wire designation:

(7) Both ends of the filled buried wire, manufactured to the requirements of this section, must be equipped with end caps which are acceptable to RUS.
