
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.860 RUS specification for filled buried wires.
###### et seq.

(3) For requalification acceptance, the manufacturer must submit an original signature certification that the product fully complies with each section of the specification, excluding the Qualification Section, and a certification that the product does or does not comply with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions of the "Buy American" requirements of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 901) for acceptance by June 30 every three years. The required data and certification must have been gathered within 90 days of the submission.

(4) Initial and requalification acceptance requests should be addressed to: Chairman, Technical Standards, Committee "A" (Telephone), Telecommunications Standards Division, Rural Utilities Service, Washington, DC 20250-1500.

(5) Tests on 100 percent of completed wire. (i) The shield of each length of wire must be tested for continuity using the procedures of ASTM D 4566-90.

(ii) Dielectric strength between all conductors and the shield must be tested to determine freedom from grounds in accordance with paragraph (m)(7)(ii) of this section.

(iii) Each conductor in the completed wire must be tested for continuity using the procedures of ASTM D 4566-90.

(iv) Dielectric strength between conductors must be tested to ensure freedom from shorts and crosses in accordance with paragraph (m)(7)(i) of this section.

(v) The average mutual capacitance must be measured on all wires.
