
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.870 RUS specification for terminating cables.
###### Scope.

(a)(1) This section establishes the requirements for terminating cables used to connect incoming outside plant cables to the vertical side of the main distributing frame in a telephone central office.

(i) The conductors are solid tinned copper, individually insulated with extruded solid dual insulating compounds.

(ii) The insulated conductors are twisted into pairs which are then stranded or oscillated to form a cylindrical core.

(iii) The cable structure is completed by the application of a core wrap, a shield, and a polyvinyl chloride jacket.

(2) The number of pairs and gauge size of conductors which are used within the RUS program are provided in the following table:

(3) All cables sold to RUS borrowers for projects involving RUS loan funds under this section must be accepted by RUS Technical Standards Committee "A" (Telephone). For cables manufactured to the specification of this section, all design changes to an accepted design must be submitted for acceptance. RUS will be the sole authority on what constitutes a design change.

(4) Materials, manufacturing techniques, or cable designs not specifically addressed by this section may be allowed if accepted by RUS. Justification for acceptance of modified materials, manufacturing techniques, or cable designs shall be provided to substantiate product utility and long term stability and endurance.
