
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.870 RUS specification for terminating cables.
###### Conductors and conductor insulation.,Dimensions and Permissible Variations

(b)(1) Each conductor shall be a solid round wire of commercially pure annealed tin coated copper. Conductors shall meet the requirements of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) B 33-91 except that requirements forare waived.

(2) Joints made in conductors during the manufacturing process may be brazed, using a silver alloy solder and nonacid flux, or they may be welded using either an electrical or cold welding technique. In joints made in uninsulated conductors, the two conductor ends shall be butted. Splices made in insulated conductors need not be butted but may be joined in a manner acceptable to RUS.

(3) The tensile strength of any section of a conductor, containing a factory joint, shall not be less than 85 percent of the tensile strength of an adjacent section of the solid conductor of equal length without a joint.

(4) Engineering Information: The sizes of wire used and their nominal diameters shall be as shown in the following table:

(5) Each conductor shall be insulated with a primary layer of natural or white solid, insulating grade, high density polyethylene or crystalline propylene/ethylene copolymer and an outer skin of colored, solid, insulating grade, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) using one of the insulating materials listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The polyethylene raw material selected to meet the requirements of this section shall be Type III, Class A, Category 4 or 5, Grade E9, in accordance with ASTM D 1248-84 (1989).

(ii) The crystalline propylene/ethylene raw material selected to meet the requirements of this section shall be Class PP 200B 40003 E11 in accordance with ASTM D 4101-82 (1988).

(iii) The PVC raw material selected to meet the requirements of this section shall be either Type PVC-64751E3XO, Type PVC-76751E3XO, or Type PVC-77751E3XO in accordance with ASTM D 2287-81 (1988).

(iv) Raw materials intended as conductor insulation furnished to these requirements shall be free from dirt, metallic particles, and other foreign matter.

(v) All insulating raw materials shall be accepted by RUS prior to their use.

(6) All conductors in any single length of cable shall be insulated with the same type of material.

(7) A permissible overall performance level of faults in conductor insulation when using the test procedures in paragraph (b)(8) of this section shall average not greater than one fault per 12,000 conductor meters (40,000 conductor feet) for each gauge of conductor.

(8) The test used to determine compliance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section shall be conducted as follows:

(i) Samples tested shall be taken from finished cables selected at random from standard production cable. The samples tested shall contain a minimum of 300 conductor meters (1,000 conductor feet) for cables sizes less than 50 pairs and 1,500 conductor meters (5,000 conductor feet) for cables sizes greater than or equal to 50 pairs. No further sample need be taken from the same cable production run within 6,000 cable meters (20,000 cable feet) of the original test sample from that run.

(ii) The cable sample shall have its jacket, shield, and core wrap removed and its core shall be immersed in tap water for a minimum period of 6 hours. In lieu of removing the jacket, shield, and core wrap from the core, the entire cable may be tested. In this case, the core shall be completely filled with tap water, under pressure; then the cable assembly shall be immersed for a minimum period of 6 hours. With the cable core still fully immersed, except for end connections, the insulation resistance (IR) of all conductors to water shall be measured using a direct current (dc) voltage of 100 volts to 550 volts.

(iii) An IR value of less than 500 megohms for any individual insulated conductor tested at or corrected to a temperature of 23 &#xB0;C is considered a failure. If the cable sample is more than 7.5 meters (25 feet) long, all failing conductors shall be retested and reported in 7.5 meter (25 foot) segments.

(iv) The pair count, gauge, footage, and number of insulation faults shall be recorded. This information shall be retained on a 6 month running basis for review by RUS when requested.

(v) A fault rate, in a continuous length in any one reel, in excess of one fault per 3,000 conductor meters (10,000 conductor feet) due to manufacturing defects is cause for rejection. A minimum of 6,000 conductor meters (20,000 conductor feet) is required to develop a noncompliance in a reel.

(9) Repairs to the conductor insulation during manufacturing are permissible. The method of repair shall be accepted by RUS prior to its use. The repaired insulation shall be capable of meeting the relevant electrical requirements of this section.

(10) All repaired sections of insulation shall be retested in the same manner as originally tested for compliance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(11) The colored composite insulating material removed from or tested on the conductor, from a finished cable, shall be capable of meeting the following performance requirements:
