
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.870 RUS specification for terminating cables.
###### Standards of color.

(3)The colors of the insulated conductors supplied in accordance with this section are specified in terms of the Munsell Color System (ASTM D 1535-89) and shall comply with the "Table of Wire and Cable Limit Chips" as defined in ANSI/EIA-359-A-84. (Visual color standards meeting these requirements may be obtained directly from the Munsell Color Company, Inc., 2441 North Calvert Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218).

(4) Positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair by marking each conductor of a pair with the color of its mate is permissible. The method of marking shall be accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(5) Other methods of providing positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair may be employed if accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(6) The insulated conductors shall be twisted into pairs.

(7) In order to provide sufficiently high crosstalk isolation, the pair twists shall be designed to enable the cable to meet the capacitance unbalance and the crosstalk loss requirements of paragraphs (h)(2), (h)(3), and (h)(4) of this section.

(8) The average length of pair twists in any pair in the finished cable, when measured on any 3 meter (m) (10 foot (ft)) length, shall not exceed 152 mm (6 in.).
