
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.870 RUS specification for terminating cables.
###### Forming of the cable core.

(d)(1) Twisted pairs shall be assembled in such a way as to form a substantially cylindrical group.

(2) When desired for lay-up reasons, the basic group may be divided into two or more subgroups called units.

(3) Each group, or unit in a particular group, shall be enclosed in bindings of the colors indicated for its particular pair count. The pair count, indicated by the color of insulation, shall be consecutive as indicated in paragraph (d)(5) of this section through units in a group.

(4) Threads or tapes used as binders shall be nonhygroscopic and nonwicking. The threads shall consists of a suitable number of ends of each color arranged as color bands. When tapes are used as binders, they shall be colored. Binders shall be applied with a lay of not more than 100 mm (4 in.). The colored binders shall be readily recognizable as the basic intended color and shall be distinguishable from all other colors.

(5) The colors of the bindings and their significance with respect to pair count shall be as shown in the following table:

(6) The use of the white unit binder in cables of 100 pair or less is optional.

(7) When desired for manufacturing reasons, two or more 25 pair groups may be bound together with nonhygroscopic and nonwicking threads or tapes into super-units. The group binders and the super-unit binders shall be colored such that the combination of the two binders shall positively identify each 25 pair group from every other 25 pair group in the cable.

(8) Super-unit binders shall be of the colors shown in the following table:
