
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.870 RUS specification for terminating cables.
###### Identification marker and length marker.

(k)(1) Each length of cable shall be permanently identified as to manufacturer and year of manufacture.

(2) The number of conductor pairs and their gauge size shall be marked on the jacket.

(3) The marking shall be printed on the jacket at regular intervals of not more than 1.5 m (5 ft).

(4) An alternative method of marking may be used if accepted by RUS prior to its use.

(5) The completed cable shall have sequentially numbered length markers in FEET OR METERS at regular intervals of not more than 1.5 m (5 ft) along the outside of the jacket.

(6) The method of length marking shall be such that for any single length of cable, continuous sequential numbering shall be employed.

(7) The numbers shall be dimensioned and spaced to produce good legibility and shall be approximately 3 mm (0.125 in.) in height. An occasional illegible marking is permissible if there is a legible marking located not more than 1.5 m (5 ft) from it.

(8) The method of marking shall be by means of suitable surface markings producing a clear, distinguishable, contrasting marking acceptable to RUS. Where direct or transverse printing is employed, the characters should be indented to produce greater durability of marking. Any other method of length marking shall be acceptable to RUS as producing a marker suitable for the field. Size, shape and spacing of numbers, durability, and overall legibility of the marker shall be considered in acceptance of the method.

(9) The accuracy of the length marking shall be such that the actual length of any cable section is never less than the length indicated by the marking and never more than one percent greater than the length indicated by the marking.

(10) The color of the initial marking for a black colored jacket shall be either white or silver. The color of the initial marking for a dark grey colored jacket shall be either red or black. If the initial marking of the black colored jacket fails to meet the requirements of the preceding paragraphs, it will be permissible to either remove the defective marking and re-mark with the white or silver color or leave the defective marking on the cable and re-mark with yellow. If the initial marking of the dark grey colored jacket fails to meet the requirements of the preceding paragraphs, it will be permissible to either remove the defective marking and re-mark with the red or black color or leave the defective marking on the cable and re-mark with yellow. No further re-marking is permitted. Any re-marking shall be on a different portion of the cable circumference than any existing marking when possible and have a numbering sequence differing from any other existing marking by at least 5,000.

(11) Any reel of cable which contains more than one set of sequential markings shall be labeled to indicate the color and sequence of marking to be used. The labeling shall be applied to the reel and also to the cable.
