
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.870 RUS specification for terminating cables.
###### Preparation for shipment.

(p)(1) The cable shall be shipped on reels unless otherwise specified or agreed to by the purchaser. The diameter of the drum shall be large enough to prevent damage to the cable from reeling or unreeling. The reels shall be substantial and so constructed as to prevent damage to the cable during shipment and handling.

(2) A waterproof corrugated board or other means of protection acceptable to RUS shall be applied to the reel and shall be suitably secured in place to prevent damage to the cable during storage and shipment.

(3) The outer end of the cable shall be securely fastened to the reel head so as to prevent the cable from becoming loose in transit. The inner end of the cable shall be securely fastened in such a way as to make it readily available if required for electrical testing. Spikes, staples, or other fastening devices which penetrate the cable jacket shall not be used. The method of fastening the cable ends shall be accepted by RUS prior to it being used.

(4) Each length of cable shall be wound on a separate reel unless otherwise specified or agreed to by the purchaser.

(5) The arbor hole shall admit a spindle 63 mm (2.5 in.) in diameter without binding. Steel arbor hole liners may be used but shall be acceptable to RUS prior to their use.

(6) Each reel shall be plainly marked to indicate the direction in which it should be rolled to prevent loosening of the cable on the reel.

(7) Each reel shall be stenciled or labeled on either one or both sides with the name of the manufacturer, year of manufacture, actual shipping length, an inner and outer end sequential length marking, description of the cable, reel number and the RUS cable designation:

(8) When preconnectorized cable is shipped, the splicing modules shall be protected to prevent damage during shipment and handling. The protection method shall be acceptable to RUS prior to its use.
