
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.890 RUS specification for filled telephone cables with expanded insulation.
###### Conductors and conductor insulation.

(b)(1) The gauge sizes of the copper conductors covered by this section must be 19, 22, 24, and 26 American Wire Gauge (AWG).

(2) Each conductor must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 2.1.

(3) Factory joints made in conductors during the manufacturing process must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 2.2.

(4) The raw materials used for conductor insulation must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 3.1 through 3.1.3.

(5) The finished conductor insulation must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 3.2.2, 3.2.3, and 3.3.

(6) Insulated conductor must not have an overall diameter greater than 2 millimeters (mm) (0.081 inch (in.)).

(7) A permissible overall performance level of faults in conductor insulation must average not greater than one fault per 12,000 conductor meters (40,000 conductor feet) for each gauge of conductor.

(i) All insulated conductors must be continuously tested for insulation faults during the twinning operation with a method of testing acceptable to RUS. The length count and number of faults must be recorded. The information must be retained for a period of 6 months and be available for review by RUS when requested.

(ii) The voltages for determining compliance with the requirements of this section are as follows:

(8) Repairs to the conductor insulation during manufacture are permissible. The method of repair must be accepted by RUS prior to its use. The repaired insulation must be capable of meeting the relevant electrical requirements of this section.

(9) All repaired sections of insulation must be retested in the same manner as originally tested for compliance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(10) The colored insulating material removed from or tested on the conductor, from a finished cable, must meet the performance requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 3.4.1 through 3.4.6.
