
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.890 RUS specification for filled telephone cables with expanded insulation.
###### Screened cable.

(e)(1) Screened cable must be constructed such that a metallic, internal screen(s) must be provided to separate and provide sufficient isolation between the compartments to meet the requirements of this section.

(2) At the option of the user or manufacturer, identified service pairs providing for voice order and fault location may be placed in screened cables.

(i) The number of service pairs provided must be one per twenty-five operating pairs plus two for a cable size up to and including 400 pairs, subject to a minimum of four service pairs. The pair counts for screened cables are as follows:

(ii) The service pairs must be equally divided among the compartments. The color sequence must be repeated in each compartment.

(iii) The electrical and physical characteristics of each service pair must meet all the requirements set forth in this section.

(iv) The colors used for the service pairs must be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section. The color code used for the service pairs together with the service pair number are shown in the following table:

(3) The screen tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4.

(4) The screen tape must be tested for dielectric strength by completely removing the protective coating from one end to be used for grounding purposes.

(i) Using an electrode, over a 30 centimeter (1 foot) length, apply a direct current (dc) voltage at the rate of rise of 500 volts/second until failure.

(ii) No breakdown should occur below 8 kilovolts.
