
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.890 RUS specification for filled telephone cables with expanded insulation.
###### Shield and optional armor.

(i)(1) A single corrugated shield must be applied longitudinally over the core wrap.

(2) For unarmored cable the shield overlap must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.2. Core diameter is defined as the diameter under the core wrap and binding.

(3) For cables containing the coated aluminum shield/coated steel armor (CACSP) sheath design, the coated aluminum shield must be applied in accordance with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.2, Dual Tape Shielding System.

(4) General requirements for application of the shielding material are as follows:

(i) Successive lengths of shielding tapes may be joined during the manufacturing process by means of cold weld, electric weld, soldering with a nonacid flux or other acceptable means.

(ii) Shield splices must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.3.

(iii) The corrugations and the application process of the coated aluminum and copper bearing shields must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.1.

(iv) The shielding material must be applied in such a manner as to enable the cable to pass the cold bend test specified in paragraph (l)(3) of this section.

(5) The following is a list of acceptable materials for use as cable shielding. Other types of shielding materials may also be used provided they are accepted by RUS prior to their use.

(i) The 8-mil aluminum tape must be plastic coated on both sides and must comply with the requirements of ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.2.

(ii) The 5-mil copper tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.3.

(iii) The 10-mil copper tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.4.

(iv) The 6-mil copper clad stainless steel tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.5.

(v) The 5-mil copper clad stainless steel tape must be in the fully annealed condition and must conform to the requirements of American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) B 694-86, with a cladding ratio of 16/68/16.

(A) The electrical conductivity of the clad tape must be a minimum of 28 percent of the International Annealed Copper Standard (IACS) when measured per ASTM B 193-87.

(B) The tape must be nominally 0.13 millimeter (0.005 inch) thick with a minimum thickness of 0.11 millimeter (0.0045 inch).

(vi) The 5-mil copper clad alloy steel tape must be in the fully annealed condition and the copper component must conform to the requirements of ASTM B 224-80 and the alloy steel component must conform to the requirements of ASTM A 505-87, with a cladding ratio of 16/68/16.

(A) The electrical conductivity of the copper clad alloy steel tape must comply with the requirement specified in (5)(v)(A) of this section.

(B) The thickness of the copper clad alloy steel tape must comply with the requirements specified in (5)(v)(B) of this section.

(vii) The 6-mil and 7-mil 194 copper alloy tapes must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.6.

(6) The corrugation extensibility of the coated aluminum shield must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.4.

(7) When the jacket is bonded to the plastic coated aluminum shield, the bond between the jacket and shield must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 7.2.6.

(8) A single plastic coated steel corrugated armor must be applied longitudinally directly over the coated aluminum shield listed in paragraph (i)(5) of this section with an overlap complying with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.2, Outer Steel Tape.

(9) Successive lengths of steel armoring tapes may be joined during the manufacturing process by means of cold weld, electric weld, soldering with a nonacid flux or other acceptable means. Armor splices must comply with the breaking strength and resistance requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.3.

(10) The corrugations and the application process of the coated steel armor must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.1.

(i) The corrugations of the armor tape must coincide with the corrugations of the coated aluminum shield.

(ii) Overlapped portions of the armor tape must be in register (corrugations must coincide at overlap) and in contact at the outer edge.

(11) The armoring material must be so applied to enable the cable to pass the cold bend test specified in paragraph (l)(3) of this section.

(12) The 6-mil steel tape must be electrolytic chrome coated steel (ECCS) plastic coated on both sides and must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.8.

(13) When the jacket is bonded to the plastic coated steel armor, the bond between the jacket and armor must comply with the requirement specified in ANSI/ICEA-S-84-608-1988, paragraph 7.2.6.
