
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.890 RUS specification for filled telephone cables with expanded insulation.
###### Preparation for shipment.

(s)(1) The cable must be shipped on reels. The diameter of the drum must be large enough to prevent damage to the cable from reeling or unreeling. The reels must be substantial and so constructed as to prevent damage to the cable during shipment and handling.

(2) The thermal wrap must comply with the requirements of ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 10.3. When a thermal reel wrap is supplied, the wrap must be applied to the reel and must be suitably secured in place to minimize thermal exposure to the cable during storage and shipment. The use of the thermal reel wrap as a means of reel protection will be at the option of the manufacturer unless specified by the end user.

(3) The outer end of the cable must be securely fastened to the reel head so as to prevent the cable from becoming loose in transit. The inner end of the cable must be securely fastened in such a way as to make it readily available if required for electrical testing. Spikes, staples, or other fastening devices which penetrate the cable jacket must not be used. The method of fastening the cable ends must be acceptable to RUS and accepted prior to its use.

(4) Each length of cable must be wound on a separate reel unless otherwise specified or agreed to by the purchaser.

(5) The arbor hole must admit a spindle 63 millimeters (2.5 inches) in diameter without binding. Steel arbor hole liners may be used but must be accepted by RUS prior to their use.

(6) Each reel must be plainly marked to indicate the direction in which it should be rolled to prevent loosening of the cable on the reel.

(7) Each reel must be stenciled or labeled on either one or both sides with the information specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 10.4 and the RUS cable designation:

(8) When cable manufactured to the requirements of this specification is shipped, both ends must be equipped with end caps acceptable to RUS.

(9) When preconnectorized cables are shipped, the splicing modules must be protected to prevent damage during shipment and handling. The protection method must be acceptable to RUS and accepted prior to its use.

(10) All cables ordered for use in underground duct applications must be equipped with a factory-installed pulling-eye on the outer end in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 10.5.2.
