
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### Buffers.

(c)(1) The optical fibers contained in a tube buffer (loose tube), an inner jacket (unit core), a channel, or otherwise loosely packaged must have a clearance between the fibers and the inside of the container sufficient to allow for thermal expansions of the tube buffer without constraining the fibers. The protective container must be manufactured from a material having a coefficient of friction sufficiently low to allow the fibers free movement. The loose tube must contain a suitable water blocking material. Loose tubes must be removable without damage to the fiber when following the manufacturer's recommended procedures.

(2) The tubes for single mode loose tube cables must be designed to allow a maximum mid-span buffer tube exposure of 6.096 meters (20 feet). The buyer should be aware that certain housing hardware may require cable designed for 6.096 meters of buffer tube storage.

(3) Optical fibers covered in near contact with an extrusion (tight tube) must have an intermediate soft buffer to allow for thermal expansions and minor pressures. The buffer tube dimension must be established by the manufacturer to meet the requirement of this section. Tight buffer tubes must be removable without damage to the fiber when following the manufacturer's recommended procedures. The tight buffered fiber must be strippable per paragraph 7.20 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)).

(4) Both loose tube and tight tube coverings of each color and other fiber package types removed from the finished cable must meet the following shrinkback and cold bend performance requirements. The fibers may be left in the tube.
