
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### Matched cable.

(5)Unless otherwise specified by the buyer, all single mode fiber cables delivered to a RUS-financed project must be manufactured to the same MFD specification. However, notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, the maximum MFD tolerance allowed for cable meeting the requirements of this section must be of a magnitude meeting the definition of "matched cable," as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1755.900. With the use of cables meeting this definition the user can reasonably expect that the average bi-directional loss of a fusion splice to be &#x2264;0.1 dB.

(6) Buyers will normally specify the MFD for the fibers in the cable. When a buyer does not specify the MFD at 1310 nm, the fibers must be manufactured to an MFD of 9.2 µm with a maximum tolerance range of +/-0.5 µm (362 +/-20 microinch), unless the end user agrees to accept cable with fibers specified to a different MFD. When the end user does specify a MFD and tolerance conflicting with the MFD maximum tolerance allowed by paragraph (d)(5) of this section, the requirements of paragraph (d)(5) must prevail.

(7) Factory splices are not allowed.
