
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### Strength members.

(f)(1) Strength members may be an integral part of the cable construction, but are not considered part of the support messenger for self-supporting optical cable.

(2) The strength members may be metallic or nonmetallic.

(3) The combined strength of all the strength members must be sufficient to support the stress of installation and to protect the cable in service.

(4) Strength members may be incorporated into the core as a central support member or filler, as fillers between the fiber packages, as an annular serving over the core, as an annular serving over the intermediate jacket, embedded in the outer jacket, or as a combination of any of these methods.

(5) The central support member or filler must contain no more than one splice per kilometer of cable. Individual fillers placed between the fiber packages and placed as annular servings over the core must contain no more than one splice per kilometer of cable. Cable sections having central member or filler splices must meet the same physical requirements as un-spliced cable sections.

(6) In each length of completed cable having a metallic central member, the dielectric strength between the shield or armor, when present, and the metallic center member must withstand at least 15 kilovolts when tested per ASTM D 4566 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(d)). The voltage must be applied for 3 seconds minimum; no failures are allowed.
