
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### Inner jackets.

(k)(1) For designs with more than one jacket, the inner jackets must be applied directly over the core or over the strength members when required by the end user. The jacket must be free from holes, splits, blisters, or other imperfections and must be as smooth and concentric as is consistent with the best commercial practice. The inner jacket must not adhere to other cable components such as fibers, buffer tubes, etc.

(2) For armored and unarmored cable, an inner jacket is optional. The inner jacket may absorb stresses in the cable core that may be introduced by armor application or by armored cable installation.

(3) The inner jacket material and test requirements must be the same as the outer jacket material, except that either black or natural polyethylene may be used and the thickness requirements are included in paragraph (m)(4) of this section. In the case of natural polyethylene, the requirements for absorption coefficient and the inclusion of furnace black are waived.

(4) The inner jacket thickness must be determined by the manufacturer, but must be no less than a nominal jacket thickness of 0.5 mm (0.02 inch) with a minimum jacket thickness of 0.35 mm (0.01 inch).
