
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### i.e.

(2) Ribbon fiber count must be specified by the end user,, 2, 4, 6, 12, etc.

(3) Ribbon dimensions must be as agreed by the end user and manufacturer per paragraph 3.4.4.1 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)).

(4) Ribbons must meet each of the following tests. These tests are included in the paragraphs of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)), indicated in parenthesis below.

(i) Ribbon Dimensions (ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 paragraphs 7.14 through 7.14.2)-measures ribbon dimension.

(ii) Ribbon Twist Test (ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 paragraphs 7.15 through 7.15.2)-evaluates the ability of the ribbon to resist splitting or other damage while undergoing dynamic cyclically twisting the ribbon under load.

(iii) Ribbon Residual Twist Test (ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 paragraphs 7.16 through 7.16.2)-evaluates the degree of permanent twist in a cabled optical ribbon.

(iv) Ribbon Separability Test (ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 paragraphs 7.17 through 7.17.2)-evaluates the ability to separate fibers.

(5) Ribbons must meet paragraph 3.4.4.6 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)), Ribbon Strippability.
