
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### Figure 8 aerial cables.

(n)(1) When self-supporting aerial cable containing an integrated support messenger is supplied, the support messenger must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs D.2.1 through D.2.4 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)), with exceptions and additional provisions as follows:

(i) Any section of a completed strand containing a joint must have minimum tensile strength and elongation of 29,500 Newtons (6,632 pound-force) and 3.5 percent, respectively, when tested per the procedures specified in ASTM A 640 (incorporated by reference in ยง 1755.901(d)).

(ii) The individual wires from a completed strand which contains joints must not fracture when tested per the "Ductility of Steel" procedures specified in ASTM A 640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(d)), except that the mandrel diameter must be equal to 5 times the nominal diameter of the individual wires.

(iii) The support strand must be completely covered with a flooding compound that offers corrosion protection. The flooding compound must be homogeneous and uniformly mixed.

(iv) The flooding compound must be nontoxic and present no dermal hazard.

(v) The flooding compound must be free from dirt, metallic particles, and other foreign matter that may interfere with the performance of the cable.
