
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### Identification markers.

(p)(1) Each length of cable must be permanently identified. The method of marking must be by means of suitable surface markings producing a clear distinguishable contrasting marking meeting paragraph 6.1.1 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)), and must meet the durability requirements of paragraphs 7.5.2 through 7.5.2.2 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640.

(2) The color of the initial marking must be white or silver. If the initial marking fails to meet the requirements of the preceding paragraphs, it will be permissible to either remove the defective marking and re-mark with the white or silver color or leave the defective marking on the cable and re-mark with yellow. No further re-marking is permitted. Any re-marking must be done on a different portion of the cable's circumference where the existing marking is found and have a numbering sequence differing from any other marking by at least 3,000. Any reel of cable that contains more than one set of sequential markings must be labeled to indicate the color and sequence of marking to be used. The labeling must be applied to the reel and also to the cable.

(3) Each length of cable must be permanently labeled OPTICAL CABLE, OC, OPTICAL FIBER CABLE, or OF on the outer jacket and identified as to manufacturer and year of manufacture.

(4) Each length of cable intended for direct burial installation must be marked with a telephone handset in compliance with requirements of the Rule 350G of the ANSI/IEEE C2-2007 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(b)).

(5) Each length of cable must be identified as to the manufacturer and year of manufacturing. The manufacturer and year of manufacturing may also be indicated by other means as indicated in paragraphs 6.1.2 through 6.1.4 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)).

(6) The number of fibers on the jacket must be marked on the jacket.

(7) The completed cable must have sequentially numbered length markers in METERS or FEET at regular intervals of not more than 2 feet or not more than 1 meter along the outside of the jacket. Continuous sequential numbering must be employed in a single length of cable. The numbers must be dimensioned and spaced to produce good legibility and must be approximately 3 millimeters (118 mils) in height. An occasional illegible marking is permissible when it is located within 2 meters of a legible making for cables marked in meters or 4 feet for cables marked in feet.

(8) Agreement between the actual length of the cable and the length marking on the cable jacket must be within the limits of + 1 percent and -0 percent.
