
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.902 Minimum performance Specification for fiber optic cables.
###### Mid-span test.

(15)This test is applicable only to cables of a loose tube design specified for mid-span applications with tube storage. Cable of specialty design may be exempted from this requirement when this requirement is not applicable to such design. All buried and underground loose tube single mode cables manufactured per the requirements in this section and intended for mid-span applications with tube storage must meet the following mid-span test without exhibiting an increase in fiber attenuation greater than 0.1 dB and a maximum average increase over all fibers of 0.05 dB.

(i) The specimen must be installed in a commercially available pedestal or closure or in a device that mimics their performance, as follows: A length of cable sheath, equal to the mid-span length, must be removed from the middle of the test specimen so as to allow access to the buffer tubes. All binders, tapes, strength members, etc. must be removed. The buffer tubes must be left intact. The cable ends defining the ends of the mid-span length must be properly secured in the closure to the more stringent of the cable or hardware manufacturer's recommendations. Strength members must be secured with an end stop type clamp and the outer jacket must be clamped to prevent slippage. A minimum of 6.096 meters (20 feet) of cable must extend from the entry and exit ports of the closure for the purpose of making optical measurements. If a device that mimics the performance of pedestals or closures is used, the buffer tubes must be wound in a coil with a minimum width of 3 inches and minimum length of 12 inches.

(ii) The expressed buffer tubes must be loosely constrained during the test.

(iii) The enclosure, with installed cable, must be placed in an environmental chamber for temperature cycling. It is acceptable for some or all of the two 20 feet (6.096 meters) cable segments to extend outside the environmental chamber.

(iv) Lids, pedestal enclosures, or closure covers must be removed if possible to allow for temperature equilibrium of the buffer tubes. If this is not possible, the manufacturer must demonstrate that the buffer tubes are at temperature equilibrium prior to beginning the soak time.

(v) Measure the attenuation of single mode fibers at 1550 +/-10 nm. The supplier must certify the performance of lower specified wavelengths comply with the mid-span performance requirements.

(vi) After measuring the attenuation of the optical fibers, test the cable sample per TIA/EIA Standard 455-3A (incorporated by reference at § 1755.901(e)). Temperature cycling, measurements, and data reporting must conform to TIA/EIA Standard 455-3A. The test must be conducted for at least five complete cycles. The following detailed test conditions must apply:

(A) TIA/EIA Standard 455-3A (incorporated by reference at § 1755.901(e)), Section 4.1-Loose tube single mode optical cable sample must be tested.

(B) TIA/EIA Standard 455-3A (incorporated by reference at § 1755.901(e)), Section 4.2-An Agency accepted 8 to 12 inch diameter optical buried distribution pedestal or a device that mimics their performance must be tested.

(C) Mid-span opening for installation of loose tube single mode optical cable in pedestal must be 6.096 meters (20 feet).

(D) TIA/EIA Standard 455-3A (incorporated by reference at § 1755.901(e)), Section 5.1-3 hours soak time.

(E) TIA/EIA Standard 455-3A (incorporated by reference at § 1755.901(e)), Section 5.2-Test Condition C-2, minimum -40 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F) and maximum 70 &#xB0;Celsius (158 &#xB0;F).

(F) TIA/EIA Standard 455-3A (incorporated by reference at § 1755.901(e)), Section 5.7.2-A statistically representative amount of transmitting fibers in all express buffer tubes passing through the pedestal and stored must be measured.

(G) The buffer tubes in the closure or pedestal must not be handled or moved during temperature cycling or attenuation measurements.

(vii) Fiber cable attenuation measured through the express buffer tubes during the last cycle at -40 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F) and + 70 &#xB0;C (158 &#xB0;F) must not exceed a maximum increase of 0.1 dB and must not exceed a 0.05 dB average across all tested fibers from the initial baseline measurements. At the conclusion of the temperature cycling, the maximum attenuation increase at 23 &#xB0;C from the initial baseline measurement must not exceed 0.05 dB which allows for measurement noise that may be encountered during the test. The cable must also be inspected at room temperature at the conclusion of all measurements; the cable must not show visible evidence of fracture of the buffer tubes nor show any degradation of all exposed cable assemblies.
