
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.903 Fiber optic service entrance cables.
###### http://www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/listing_procedures/index_listing_procedures.htm

(9) All cables sold to RUS Telecommunications borrowers must be accepted by the Agency's Technical Standards Committee "A" for projects involving RUS loan funds. All design changes to Agency acceptable designs must be submitted to the Agency for acceptance. Optical cable designs not specifically addressed by this section may be allowed, if accepted by the Agency. Justification for acceptance of a modified design must be provided to substantiate product utility and long term stability and endurance. For information on how to obtain the Agency's acceptance of cables, refer to the product acceptance procedures available atas well as RUS Bulletin 345-3.

(10) The Agency intends that the optical fibers contained in the cables meeting the requirement of this section have characteristics that will allow signals, having a range of wavelengths, to be carried simultaneously.

(11) The manufacturer is responsible to establish a quality assurance system meeting industry standards described in paragraph 1.8 of ICEA S-110-717 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)).

(12) The cable made must meet paragraph 1.10 of ICEA S-110-717 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)).
