
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### § 1755.903 Fiber optic service entrance cables.
###### Matched cable.

(4)Unless otherwise specified by the buyer, all single mode fiber cables delivered to an Agency-financed project must be manufactured to the same MFD specification. However, notwithstanding the requirements indicated in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, the maximum MFD tolerance allowed for cables meeting the requirements of this section must be of a magnitude meeting the definition of "matched cable," as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1755.900. With the use of cables meeting this definition the user can reasonably expect that the average bi-directional loss of a fusion splice to be &#x2264;0.1 dB.

(5) Buyers will normally specify the MFD for the fibers in the cable. When a buyer does not specify the MFD at 1310 nm, the fibers must be manufactured to an MFD of 9.2 µm with a maximum tolerance range of +/-0.5 µm (362 +/-20 microinch), unless the buyer agrees to accept cable with fibers specified to a different MFD. When the buyer does specify a MFD and tolerance conflicting with the MFD maximum tolerance allowed by paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the requirements of paragraph (d)(4) must prevail.

(6) Factory splices are not allowed.

(7) All optical fibers in any single length of cable must be of the same type unless otherwise specified by end user.

(8) Optical fiber dimensions and data reporting must be as required by paragraph 7.13.1.1 of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at § 1755.901(c)).
