
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.903 Fiber optic service entrance cables.
###### Strength members.,Strength Members,Static Tensile Testing of Aerial Self-Supporting Cables

(e)(1) Combined strength of all the strength members must be sufficient to support the stress of installation and to protect the cable in service. Strength members must meet paragraph 4.4,, of ICEA S-110-717 (incorporated by reference at ยง 1755.901(c)). Self supporting aerial cables using the strength members as an integral part of the cable strength must comply with paragraph C.4,, of ANNEX C of ICEA S-110-717.

(2) Strength members may be incorporated into the core as a central support member or filler, as fillers between the fiber packages, as an annular serving over the core, as an annular serving over the intermediate jacket, embedded in the outer jacket or as a combination of any of these methods.

(3) The central support member or filler must contain no more than one splice per kilometer of cable. Individual fillers placed between the fiber packages and placed as annular servings over the core must contain no more than one splice per kilometer of cable. Cable sections having central member or filler splices must meet the same physical requirements as un-spliced cable sections.

(4) Notwithstanding what has been indicated in other parts of this document, in each length of completed cable having a metallic central member, the dielectric strength between the optional armor and the metallic center member must withstand at least 15 kilovolts direct current for 3 seconds.
