
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.903 Fiber optic service entrance cables.
###### Testing, Test Methods, and Requirements

(ii) Flooding compounds must be sufficiently applied between the optional inner jacket and armor and between the armor and outer jacket so that voids and air spaces in these areas are minimized. The use of floodant between the armor and outer jacket is not required when uniform bonding, per paragraph l(9) of this section, is achieved between the plastic-clad armor and the outer jacket. Floodant must exhibit adhesive properties sufficient to prevent jacket slip when tested per the requirements of paragraphs 7.26 through 7.26.2 of Part 7,, of ANSI/ICEA S-87-640 (incorporated by reference at 1755.901(c)).

(iii) Water blocking elements must achieve equal or better performance in preventing the ingress and migration of water as compared to filling and flooding compounds. In lieu of a flooding compound, water blocking elements may be applied between the optional inner jacket and armor and between the armor and outer jacket to prevent water migration. The use of the water blocking elements between the armor and outer jacket is not required when uniform bonding, per paragraph (l)(10) of this section, is achieved between the plastic-clad armor and the outer jacket.

(2) The materials must be homogeneous and uniformly mixed; free from dirt, metallic particles and other foreign matter; easily removed; nontoxic and present no dermal hazards.

(3) The individual cable manufacturer must satisfy the Agency that the filling compound or water blocking elements selected for use is suitable for its intended application.
