
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.903 Fiber optic service entrance cables.
###### Test procedure.

(ii)(A) Place the two samples on an insulating material such as wood.

(B) Tape thermocouples to the jackets of each sample to measure the jacket temperature.

(C) Cover one sample with the thermal reel wrap.

(D) Expose the samples to a radiant heat source capable of heating the uncovered sample to a minimum of 71 &#xB0;C (160 &#xB0;F). A GE 600 watt photoflood lamp or an equivalent lamp having the light spectrum approximately that of the sun must be used.

(E) The height of the lamp above the jacket must be 380 millimeters (15 inches) or an equivalent height that produces the 71 &#xB0;C (160 &#xB0;F) jacket temperature on the unwrapped sample must be used.

(F) After the samples have stabilized at the temperature, the jacket temperatures of the samples must be recorded after one hour of exposure to the heat source.

(G) Compute the temperature difference between jackets.

(H) The temperature difference between the jacket with the thermal reel wrap and the jacket without the reel wrap must be greater than or equal to 17 &#xB0;C (63 &#xB0;F).

(4) Cable must be sealed at the ends to prevent entrance of moisture.

(5) The end-of-pull (outer end) of the cable must be securely fastened to prevent the cable from coming loose during transit. The start-of-pull (inner end) of the cable must project through a slot in the flange of the reel, around an inner riser, or into a recess on the flange near the drum and fastened in such a way to prevent the cable from becoming loose during installation.

(6) Spikes, staples or other fastening devices must be used in a manner which will not result in penetration of the cable.

(7) The minimum size arbor hole must be 44.5 mm (1.75 inch) and must admit a spindle without binding.

(8) Each reel must be plainly marked to indicate the direction in which it should be rolled to prevent loosening of the cable on the reel.

(9) Each reel must be stenciled or lettered with the name of the manufacturer.

(10) The following information must be either stenciled on the reel or on a tag firmly attached to the reel: Optical Cable, Type and Number of Fibers, Armored or Nonarmored, Year of Manufacture, Name of Cable Manufacturer, Length of Cable, Reel Number, REA 7 CFR 1755.903.

Example: Optical Cable, G.657 class A, 4 fibers, Armored. XYZ Company, 1050 meters, Reel Number 3, REA 7 CFR 1755.903.

(11) When pre-connectorized cable is shipped, the splicing modules must be protected to prevent damage during shipment and handling.
