
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.903 Fiber optic service entrance cables.
###### http://www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/publications/eligible.htm;

(A) Final assembly or manufacture of the product, as the product would be used by an Agency's borrower, is completed in the United States or eligible countries. For a list of eligible countries, seeand

(B) The cost of United States and eligible countries' components (in any combination) within the product is more than 50 percent of the total cost of all components utilized in the product. The cost of non-domestic components (components not manufactured within the United States or eligible countries) which are included in the finished product must include all duties, taxes, and delivery charges to the point of assembly or manufacture;

(vii) Written user testimonials concerning performance of the product; and

(viii) Other nonproprietary data deemed necessary by the Chief, Technical Support Branch (Telecommunications).

(3) For continued Agency product acceptance, the manufacturer must submit an original signature certification that the product fully complies with each paragraph of this section and a certification stating whether the cable meets the two domestic provisions of paragraph (t)(2)(vi) above for acceptance by January every three years. The certification must be based on test data showing compliance with the requirements of this section. The test data must have been gathered within 90 days of the submission and must be kept on files per paragraph (u)(1).

(4) Initial and re-qualification acceptance requests should be addressed to: Chairman, Technical Standards Committee "A" (Telecommunications), STOP 1550, Advanced Services Division, Rural Development Utilities Program, Washington, DC 20250-1550.
