
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Scope.

(a)(1) The purpose of this specification is to inform manufacturers and users of outside plant housings and serving area interface (SAI) systems of the engineering and technical requirements that are considered necessary for satisfactory performance in outside plant environments. Included are the mechanical, electrical, and environmental requirements, desired design features, and test methods for evaluation of the product.

(2) The housing and terminal requirements reflect the best engineering judgment available at the present time and may be subject to change due to advances in technology, economic conditions, or other factors.

(3) The test procedures described in this section are required by RUS to demonstrate the functional reliability of the product. However, other standard or unique test procedures may serve the same function. In such cases, RUS shall evaluate the test procedures and results on an individual basis.

(4) The test procedures specified herein satisfy the requirements of housings as well as the requirements of terminals that may be installed within housings. Some of the requirements are interrelated to several tests designed to determine the performance aspects of terminals and are directly affected by testing required for housings. Therefore, the manufacturer should carefully review all the test requirements in order to develop a testing schedule that is comprehensive, efficient in terms of the number of test specimens required and can be accomplished in an orderly and logical sequence.

(5) The specified tests may require special facilities to comply with Federal, State, or local regulatory requirements. Some test procedures are potentially hazardous to personnel because of the high voltages and mechanical forces involved. Safety precautions are necessary to prevent injury.
