
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Housing types and capacities.

(2)(i) Housings used in outside plant are either the smaller housings generally known as pedestals or larger housings known as equipment or splice cabinets. Both categories may have designs intended for stake mounting, pole mounting, or pad mounting.

(ii) The classifications of pedestals are the general purpose channel Type (H) and the dome Type (M). The Type H pedestal has either front only access or back and front access while the Type M pedestal has top only access. Pedestals are further designated as follows:

(iii) The minimum volume associated with the pedestal designations shall be as shown in the following table:

(iv) Equipment cabinets intended for use as SAI housings shall be assigned size designations according to their maximum pair termination capacities. The capacity will vary depending on the type of terminating equipment used. SAI cabinets shall be suffix designated with an "A" for pole mounting, "X" for pad mounting, and "S" for stake mounting.

(v) Large pair count splice cabinets are classified according to their splice capacity. Approximately 48 cm(3.0 in.) of splice area per pair straight spliced shall be permitted.

(vi) The minimum volume associated with large pair count splice cabinets shall be as shown in the following table:
