
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Design and fabrication requirements for housings.

(3)(i) Type H pedestal housings may consist of an enclosed channel incorporating an integrally mounted stake that serves as a backplate, or they may be designed for universal mounting on stakes or poles. The body of the housing shall have two major components; an upper cover and a base cover. The upper cover shall have a top, front and back plate with the front cover removable to permit entry and provide increased work space. The base cover shall consist of a front plate and back plate. The base cover back plate may be an extension of the upper back plate cover.

(ii) Type M pedestal housings shall consist of a one piece upper sleeve designed to fit over the base cover trapping air to prohibit water from entering the splice area when installed in locations prone to temporary flooding. Pedestals designed to be mounted extra high on poles for locations susceptible to deep snow shall have a bottom close-off option available to prohibit the ingress of birds, rodents and insects.

(iii) The external housing components on all outside plant housings shall provide reasonable protection against accidental removal or vandalism. Housings shall be equipped with a cover plate retaining bolt and cup washer that may be opened only with an industry accepted socket type can wrench. Housings may be equipped with provisions to allow the purchaser to install a padlock.

(iv) Installed housings shall resist the disassembling force of frost heaving applied to the bottom of ground line cover plates. The base cover must remain stationary to stabilize the contents of the housing cavity.

(v) In an effort to provide protection against dust penetration, blowing snow, rain, and ultraviolet light degradation of internal components, all mechanical gaps shall be restricted. The use of seals, overlaps, gaskets, and/or dovetailing is required to assure satisfactory protection of housed equipment.

(vi) Knockouts, cutouts, or notches designed to accommodate aerial service drops shall not be permitted. A design option for housings intended to accommodate service drops shall include a separate channel or equivalent in the base cover to allow future additions of service drops without the removal of gravel or the moisture barrier in the base of the housing. Service wire channels must be designed to prevent the entry of birds, reptiles, rodents and insects.

(vii) Minimal venting of SAI housings may be necessary to relieve internal pressure and condensation.

(viii) There shall be no aluminum housing components that will become buried in the soil when the housing is properly installed.

(ix) Housing components may be assembled using rivets, welds, glue, bolts and nuts, or other techniques suitable for the materials involved.

(x) Housings and their components that require field assembly must be capable of being assembled with tools normally available to outside plant technicians.

(xi) Hinged doors on SAI housings and large pair count splice housings shall be equipped with a device that restrains the doors in the open position.

(xii) Outside plant housings shall be free of sharp edges, burrs, etc., that could present a safety hazard to personnel involved in installation and use of the product or to the general public. Surfaces inside housings must not allow pinching of conductors during installation of cover plates or the opening and closing of doors.

(xiii) A ground line mark shall be provided, approximately 15 cm (6 in.) below the top edge of the housing base cover plate on housings intended for ground level mounting. Base cover plates shall have a minimum height of 31 cm (12 in.).

(xiv) Any housing, which weighs in excess of 91 kilograms (kg) (200 pounds (lb)), including its contents, shall be equipped with lifting brackets for attaching hoisting cables or chains.

(xv) Housing stakes shall be a minimum of 107 cm (42 in.) in length. If fabricated from steel, they shall have a minimum thickness of No. 13 gauge as measured according to American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) A 525-91b. Stakes shall be formed into a "U" channel with a minimum depth of 2 cm (0.75 in.). The stake shall be a single part of suitable design strength for driving 91 cm (36 in.) into the soil with hand tools without damage such as bending or warping. The stake shall have adequate mounting holes having a minimum separation of 15 cm (6 in.) for mounting the housing baseplate. The stake material must resist corrosion and deterioration when exposed to soil and atmospheric conditions.

(xvi) The housing design must permit a logical progression of installation steps that would normally be encountered in typical field installations.

(xvii) Provisions for attaching housings to stakes, poles, walls, other housings, or pads shall be provided for each design intended for those purposes. Locations of holes for mounting attachments may be provided by knockouts on above ground components. Mounting hole locations for below ground components may be predrilled.

(xviii) Pole mounting hardware shall provide at least 1.3 cm (0.5 in.) clearance from the pole to the housing. Pole mounting brackets shall accommodate the wide range of pole sizes used in the telephone industry.

(xix) Pad-mounted housings shall have hardware available for anchoring the housing base to the pad. A template may be provided to assist in the location of mounting attachment details for pad preparation.

(xx) Housings equipped with stub cables shall have strain relief devices to permit shipping and handling of the housing without damage to the housing or stub cables. Only RUS accepted cable shall be used for stub cables. The cable manufacturer's recommendations concerning minimum bend radius shall be observed. The minimum bend radius for most copper cables is 10 times the cable diameter.

(xxi) Cable supports shall be provided near the top of the ground line cover and other appropriate locations within the housing to provide cable stability consistent with the intended use and capacity of the housing. Cable supports shall be capable of holding a minimum load of 23 kg (50 lb).

(xxii) An adequate supply of nonmetallic retainer clips or tie wraps capable of supporting a minimum load of 23 kg (50 lb) shall be provided with the housing. Adequate spaces for installation of the clips or tie wraps must be provided on the housing backplate and cable supports.

(xxiii) Housing chambers designed for splicing operations shall be equipped with insulated supporting straps or rods suitable for supporting splice bundles. The insulation on the straps or rods shall extend for the entire length of the device and shall have a dielectric strength of 15 kilovolts (kv) direct current (dc) minimum. Housings having an "H" frame design where both front and rear covers may be removed may incorporate insulated tie bars to be used as cable supports.

(xxiv) Housings designed to contain equipment in addition to splices shall be equipped with a device for physically separating the splice area from the service area of the housing.

(xxv) A dielectric shield rated at 15 kv dc shall be provided to enclose the cable splice area. The shield shall extend from the lower cable supports to within 2.5 cm (1 in.) of the top of the housing. The shield shall be equipped with Velcro or equivalent fastening devices designed to hold the shield in both the open or closed positions. The fastening devices shall extend along the entire vertical edge of the dielectric shield.

(xxvi) Mounting arrangements for a variety of terminal blocks and other equipment shall be provided by means of good housekeeping panels or other devices that may enhance the service aspect of the housing.

(xxvii) Housings designed for SAI cabinets may be shipped with terminal blocks installed and stub cables attached. If this option is exercised, the stub cables and terminal blocks must be RUS accepted. In all cases, SAI cabinets must be equipped with appropriate mounting devices for installing the peripheral equipment required for a serving area interface.

(xxviii) SAI cabinets shall be designed to provide physical separation between the splicing area and the area provided for running cross-connect jumpers.

(xxix) SAI cabinets and large splice housings must have an external feature for attaching a padlock to prevent unauthorized entry.

(xxx) Each housing shall have a tinned or zinc electroplated copper alloy or equivalent connector plate or bar to be used for terminating ground and cable shield bond connections. The device shall be equipped with captive studs and nuts with captive lock washers designed for attaching 6 American Wire Gauge (AWG) copper bonding harness wire or braid and a 6 AWG copper ground wire. Connector plates shall be equipped with enough studs and nuts to provide individual connections equivalent to the maximum number of cable sheaths recommended for the housing. Housings shall incorporate design features that enable the field installation of at least one additional connector plate for service conditions that require numerous connections. A bonding and grounding system capable of providing support and strain relief for service wires shall be provided for housings intended for use as distribution points. The bonding system shall be designed to provide sheath continuity as cable and service wires are installed, and prior to any other operation being performed. The bonding arrangement shall provide electrical continuity between all bonds and the ground connector plate. The bonding and grounding arrangement shall permit the lifting of individual cable ground connections for testing and cable locating activities without jeopardizing the grounding potential of other cables that may enter the housing. The bonding and grounding system shall be capable of conducting a current of 1000 amperes for at least 20 seconds.
