
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### RUS acceptance applications.

(3)(i) The tests described in this specification are required for acceptance of product designs and major modifications of accepted designs. All modifications shall be considered major unless otherwise declared by RUS. The tests are intended to show the inherent capability of the manufacturer to produce products which have an expected service life of 30 years.

(ii) For initial acceptance the manufacturer shall:

(A) Submit an original signature certification that the product complies with each section of the specification;

(B) Provide qualification test data;

(C) Provide OSHA Material Safety Data Sheets for the product;

(D) Provide a detailed explanation concerning the intended use and capacity of the product;

(E) Provide a complete set of instructions, recommendations for equipment organization and splicing;

(F) Agree to periodic plant inspections;

(G) Provide a certification that the product does or does not comply with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions of the "Buy American" requirements of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (52 Stat. 818);

(H) Provide user testimonials concerning field performance of the product;

(I) Provide product samples if requested by RUS; and

(J) Provide any other data required by the Chief, Outside Plant Branch (Telephone).

(iii) Each requirement of this section must be addressed in submissions for acceptance. The designation N/A may be entered when the requirements do not apply.

(iv) Acceptance requests should be addressed to: Chairman, Technical Standards, Committee "A" (Telephone), Telecommunications Standards Division, Rural Utilities Service, Washington, DC 20250-1500.
