
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### General information.

(b)(1) Outside plant housings are fabricated of either metallic or nonmetallic materials in different sizes and configurations to suit a variety of applications. The purpose of a housing is to protect its contents from environmental elements, rodents, insects, or vandalism and unauthorized access. Housings are designed with internal brackets for accommodating splicing, bonding and grounding connections, cable terminals, cross-connect facilities, load coils, and optical and electronic equipment.

(2) Pedestals are housings primarily intended to house, organize, and protect cable terminations incorporating terminal blocks, splice connectors and modules, ground lugs and load coils. Activities typically performed in a pedestal are cable splicing, shield bonding and grounding, inductive loading, and connection of subscriber drops.

(3) Serving area interface (SAI) cabinets are housings intended to perform some of the same functions as pedestals but are primarily intended to serve as the connecting terminal between feeder cable and distribution cables.

(4) Outside plant housings shall be manufactured in accordance with National Electrical Code (NEC) requirements, Underwriters' Laboratories (UL) requirements, Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration Standards (OSHA), and all other applicable Federal, State, and local requirements including, but not limited to, statutes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances otherwise imposed by law.
