
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Housing materials.

(5)(i) Materials used in housings shall present no environmental or safety hazard as defined by industry standards or Federal, State, or local laws and regulations. Figure 1 is as follows:

(ii) All materials are required to have fire resistance ratings consistent with recognized industry standards. External materials must be flame resistant.

(iii) All materials used in the manufacture of housings or component parts must achieve the required strength properties, resist deterioration when exposed to outdoor conditions, and be acceptable to RUS for the specific application. New materials or materials not familiar to the RUS staff shall be supported by test and performance data which demonstrates their suitability for the intended use.

(iv) Nonmetallic housing materials shall have a fungus growth rating no greater than one according to ASTM G 21-90.

(v) Metallic components shall be either corrosion resistant or protected against corrosion and must not produce galvanic corrosion in wet or humid conditions on other metals that may be present in the housing environment.

(vi) Mill galvanized steel used in the manufacture of housings shall comply with the appropriate requirements of one of the following standards:

(A) ASTM A 109-91;

(B) ASTM A 366/A 366M-91;

(C) ASTM A 525-91b; or

(D) ASTM A 526/A 526M-90.

(vii) Hot rolled steel shall comply with the appropriate requirements of one of the following standards:

(A) ASTM A 569/A 569M-91a; or

(B) ASTM A 621/A 621M-92.

(viii) Cold rolled steel shall comply with the appropriate requirements of one of the following standards:

(A) ASTM A l09-91; or

(B) ASTM A 366/A 366M-91.

(ix) Steel parts used for internal housing brackets shall be hexavalent chromate coated or zinc plated in accordance with ASTM B 633-85.

(x) Hardware items used for assembling or fastening housing components shall be 300 series or passivated 400 series stainless steel or hot dip galvanized in accordance with ASTM A l53-82 (1987). Other materials will be considered by RUS on an individual basis.

(xi) Aluminum components shall be fabricated from alloy types 5052 or 6061 or other types that have been recognized as having acceptable corrosion resistance and formability and weldability features.

(xii) Nonmetallic parts must be resistant to solvents and stress cracking and shall be compatible with metals and other materials such as conductor insulations and filling compounds used in the manufacture of cable. Plastic materials must be noncorrosive to metals and resist deterioration when exposed to industrial chemical pollutants, ultra-violet rays, road salts, cleaning agents, insecticides, fertilizers, or other detrimental elements normally encountered in the outdoor environment.

(xiii) Housing door seals and gaskets may be manufactured from rubber or synthetic rubber-like elastomer materials. Seals and gaskets shall exhibit a high degree of weatherability with an effective life of at least 30 years in the outdoor environment. The material shall be tear resistant and have a low compression set.
