
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Weathertightness.

(xi)The housing shall be mounted in its typical field installation position and sprayed with water. The temperature of the water shall be adjusted to be equal to or warmer than the temperature of the cabinet interior to avoid the possibility of condensation. A water spray head shall be used to direct water at the housing so that the water stream will strike the assembly at a downward angle of 45 degrees. The flow of the water shall be 3.8 liters per minute (one gallon per minute), with 276 kilopascals (40 pounds per square inch) head of pressure. The spray head shall be held 1.8 meters (m) (6 feet (ft)) from the test cabinet. The spray head shall be adjusted so that water impinges uniformly over the housing surface. The duration of the test shall be five minutes. All vertical cabinet surfaces shall be tested by this procedure. The exterior of the cabinet shall be thoroughly dried with towels (no heat drying) prior to examination of the housing interior. The interior of the housing shall be checked for presence of water. Wetting of over-lapping surfaces is permitted. There shall be no presence of water inside the housing.
