
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Mechanical requirements for housings,Impact resistance.

(4)-(i)The test housing shall be subjected to the following impacts according to its minimum volume or minimum width and depth as shown in the following table:

(A) The impact force shall be delivered to the front, back, and top surfaces. Circular housings shall be impacted on side surfaces 180 &#xB0;apart and on the top. The device used to deliver the force shall be spherical and approximately 25 to 31 cm (10 to 12 in.) in diameter. A typical test procedure may include the use of a hard rubber bowling ball, weighing 6 to 7 kg (13 to 16 lb), enclosed in a mesh bag, attached to a rope with a metal ring. The load shall be dropped vertically on the top surface and applied to the sides with a pendulum motion using the appropriate height and extension arm to achieve the required impact force. The housing must be impacted at the approximate mid-point of the surface area.

(B) Housings shall be conditioned for a minimum of eight hours at -40 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F) in an environmental chamber prior to testing. If the chamber is insufficient in size to conduct tests within the chamber, the housing may be removed and shall be tested within 10 minutes after removal.

(C) After impact testing, the housing shall not exhibit fractured or ruptured surfaces sufficient to allow the ingress of moisture or dust. The housing shall not exhibit mechanical damage that would impair the functioning of hinges, latches, locks, etc.
