
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Design and fabrication requirements.

(2)(i) Terminal blocks used in outside plant housings are expected to perform satisfactorily for a nominal design life of 30 years.

(ii) All individual terminals or terminal fields must be enclosed and the terminal enclosure must be totally filled with an encapsulating grease or gel which prevents connection degradation caused by moisture and corrosion. The encapsulant must provide complete encapsulation of terminal metallic connections and surfaces and totally fill all voids and cavities within individual terminal enclosures or terminal field enclosures to prevent ingress of moisture. The encapsulant must not restrict access to the terminal or restrict craft personnel from making connections. The encapsulant must be compatible with the standard materials used in cross-connect hardware and wiring.

(iii) Binding post terminals shall not be susceptible to damage under normal use of standard tools used by outside plant technicians such as screwdrivers and test set clips. In addition, use of other tools such as scissors, diagonal cutters and long nose pliers for tightening and loosening screws shall not result in damage to the terminal.

(iv) Terminals shall be designed so that a typical technician using customary tools shall be able to terminate cross-connect wire on a pair of terminals, or to remove it, without causing an electrical short between any two terminals or any other adjacent terminals.

(v) The terminal count sequence shall be indicated using numerals of at least 0.25 cm (0.10 in.) in height.

(vi) A means shall be provided to distinguish feeder terminals from distribution terminals.

(vii) A means shall be provided to identify tip terminals and ring terminals in a terminal field. The identification convention shall indicate tip on the left with ring on the right for horizontal spacing and tip on the top with ring on the bottom for vertical spacing.

(viii) The preferred height of the highest terminal in the connector field in a ground mounted SAI unit shall be 168 cm (66 in.) or less as measured from the top surface of the mounting pad. The bottom or lowest terminals in the connector field shall be at least 46 cm (18 in.) from the top surface of the pad.

(ix) Pole mounted aerial units shall be 84 cm (33 in.) or less in width. The maximum allowable height of the highest terminals in a pole mounted aerial unit is 168 cm (66 in.) as measured from the top surface of the standard balcony seat used with the interface. For computation purposes, 15 cm (6 in.) shall be allowed for the distance between the bottom of the interface and the top of the balcony seat.
