
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Auxiliary features.

(3)(i) SAI cabinets with terminal designs which do not permit direct attachment of common test instrument clips to terminal pairs without the occurrence of shorts shall be equipped with single pair auxiliary test contacts. The auxiliary test contacts shall attach to a terminal pair and provide a set of secondary terminals which will accept typical test instrument clips without the occurrence of shorts. Wire used to connect the auxiliary test contacts to the secondary terminals shall be 20 gauge minimum stranded conductor copper wire with a minimum dielectric strength between conductors of 15 kv. The test connector shall be functional on all terminal pairs.

(ii) A 25 or 50 pair test connector shall be available which can be used to make reliable electrical contact to terminals associated with discrete 25 pair binder groups. The multi-pair test connector shall be provided with a minimum of 1.8 m (6 ft) of suitable cabling terminated to a connector, for interfacing with test sets common to the industry. The multi-pair test connector shall be functional on all terminal groups.

(iii) A special service marker shall be available which must attach to a binding post terminal to identify special circuits and insulate exposed metal parts from accidental shorts from tools and wires. A supply of 25 special service markers shall be provided with each SAI cabinet. The color of special service markers shall be red.

(iv)(A) A supply of twisted pair cross-connect wire shall be supplied with housings that are equipped with cross-connect terminals or that have provisions for mounting cross-connect terminals. The minimum length of cross-connect wire supplied is dependent on the SAI cabinet terminal capacity as follows:

(B) The cabinet shall be equipped to store the length of wire in a manner designed for convenient dispensing. The cross-connect wire supply shall be easily replaceable.
