
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Contact resistance.

(iii)A minimum of 100 terminals equipped with cross-connect wire that has been installed in a manner typical of that used in the industry shall be temperature cycled.

(A) The test shall consist of eight-hour temperature cycles with one-hour dwells at extreme temperatures of -40 &#xB0;C to + 60 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F to + 140 &#xB0;F), and temperature changes at an average rate of 16 &#xB0;C (60 &#xB0;F) per hour between the extremes. The relative humidity shall be maintained at 95+/-3%. The eight-hour test shall be conducted for 512 cycles. Millivolt drop measurements shall be made initially and after 2, 8, 16, 32, 64, 256, and 512 cycles with the samples at room temperature. The resistance measurement technique must conform to ASTM B 539-90. The measurement method must have an accuracy of at least +/-30 microohms for resistances less than 50 milliohms. The change in contact resistance shall not exceed 2 milliohms.

(B) A minimum of 100 terminals equipped with cross-connect wire installed in a manner typical of the industry shall be maintained at 118 &#xB0;C (245 &#xB0;F) during the test period, except during disturbance measurement periods where each wire connection to the terminals shall have a 0.23 kg (0.5 lb) force momentarily applied in a manner to stress the connection. Initial millivolt measurements shall be made without disturbing the joints in accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(A) of this section with the samples at room temperature. After initial measurement each sample shall be disturbed followed by a millivolt drop measurement after 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, and 33 days. The change in contact resistance should be less than 2 milliohms when compared to the initial measurement.
