
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Insulation resistance/simulated rain exposure.

(ii)(A) A test housing as described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section shall be tested for water infiltration. The test shall be conducted using the method described in paragraph (e)(3)(xi) of this section. The cabinet doors shall remain closed for the duration of the test. The insulation resistance between the ring terminals and the common tip terminals shall be measured during and immediately following the spray application as indicated in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section and shall not be less than 1 x 10ohms.

(B) With the cabinet doors open, a spray of tap water at a rate of 3.8 liters per minute (1 gallon per minute) at 276 kilo-pascals (40 pounds per square inch) shall be directed on the terminal array for a period of 1 minute saturating all of the terminals. Following the spray application the doors shall be closed. The cabinet shall be maintained in a temperature environment of 26 to 28 &#xB0;C (78 to 82 &#xB0;F) at 95+/-3% RH for 6 hours. The insulation resistance shall then be measured as specified in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section. The minimum insulation resistance shall not be less than 1 x 10ohms.
