
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Operational requirements,Durability.

(5)-(i)In order to verify the durability requirements while minimizing the number of test housings required to complete the test program, the binding posts selected for tests shall be separately identified and then checked to establish compliance after the various tests have been conducted.

(ii) Twenty-five jumper connections shall be made on each of two binding post connectors chosen at random from a representative sample in an assembled interface unit. After exposure to this test, these and adjacent connectors shall be inspected for damage such as cracks or chips in metal or plastic parts. Failure consists of structural damage, open circuits through the connector, or inability to pass the torsional, lateral loading, or axial pullout tests described in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii) through (g)(3)(iv) of this section.

(iii) Select six binding posts at random in a representative interface. On each connector, attach any test cord included with the unit and then remove the test cord as follows. On binding post sample 1, remove the cord normally ten times. On binding post sample 2, remove the cord ten times by jerking the test leads straight out. In these and the remaining tests, do this without releasing any manual attachment mechanisms. On sample 3, remove ten times by jerking downward at 45 &#xB0;from horizontal; sample 4, upward at 45 &#xB0;ten times; sample 5, left 45 &#xB0;ten times; sample 6, right 45 &#xB0;ten times. Check for opens and damage in the test cord, clips, and connectors. Failure consists of structural damage, open circuits through the connector, or inability of the terminal blocks to pass the torsional, lateral loading, axial pullout, test connector reliability, or dielectric strength tests described in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii) through (g)(3)(v)(B), and paragraph (g)(4) of this section.

(iv) Use craft tools such as scissors, diagonal cutters, and long nose pliers to loosen and tighten screws where the binding post design does not prohibit the possibility. Failure consists of severe structural damage.
