
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Design and fabrication requirements.

(2)(i) All individual terminals or terminal fields must be enclosed and the terminal enclosures must be totally filled with an encapsulating grease or gel which prevents connection degradation caused by moisture and corrosion. The encapsulant must provide complete encapsulation of terminal metallic connections and surfaces and totally fill all voids and cavities within individual terminal enclosures or terminal field enclosures to prevent ingress of moisture. The encapsulant must not restrict access to the terminal or restrict craft personnel from making connections. The encapsulant must be compatible with the standard materials used in cross-connect hardware and wiring.

(ii) The cross-connect module manufacturer shall make available any nonstandard tools and test apparatus which are required for splicing, placing of jumpers, and the performance of maintenance operations.

(iii) The module shall be designed so that a typical outside plant technician using tools shall be able to terminate cross-connect wire on terminals, or to remove them without causing electrical shorts between any other terminals.

(iv) The pair count sequence terminated on a module shall be easily visible and shall have numerals of at least 0.25 cm (0.10 in.) in height.

(v) Feeder terminations shall be easily distinguished from distribution terminations.

(vi) Tip and ring terminations shall be easily visible and shall be identifiable as described in paragraph (f)(2)(vi) of this section.

(vii) The preferred locations for cross-connect modules to be mounted inside a housing is the same as those for terminals and are described in paragraphs (f)(2)(vii) and (f)(2)(viii) of this section.
