
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Torsional capacity of binding posts.

(ii)The test specimens shall consist of the complete binding post terminal consisting of the screw or nut, washers if required, and threaded post or stud respectively.

(A) Test specimens shall include the terminals along the matrix edge at mid-span locations as well as centrally located terminals. Tests shall be conducted using a torque indicating screwdriver, or wrench, with an accuracy of +/-0.17 N-m (+/-1.5 lb-in.) or better. The torque indicating device shall be used to tighten a screw or nut until failure of the screw or nut is achieved. Tests shall be conducted while the test specimen is stabilized at temperatures of -40 &#xB0;C, 20 &#xB0;C, and 71 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F, + 68 &#xB0;F, and at + 160 &#xB0;F). Record the torques at terminal failure. At least 10 test specimens shall be tested at each temperature. The failure torque shall not be less than 2.8 N-m (25.0 lb-in.) for each temperature.

(B) The post or stud of the binding post terminal shall not fail before the screw or nut when increasing torque. The faceplate or receptacle restraining the post or stud shall not fail before the screw or nut when increasing torque.
