
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Packaging requirements.

(2)(i) Buried plant housings shall be packaged securely in an environmentally safe container to prevent either deterioration or physical damage to the unit during shipment, handling and storage.

(ii) The product with all the necessary parts shall be shipped in one container unless significant advantages to the user can be obtained otherwise. Packaging of parts in the carton shall be such that the parts become available in the order in which they are needed. The package should be clearly marked as to which end to open. Packages shall be clearly labeled, and correspond to the names given in the instructions.

(iii) Products packed in shipping containers shall be cushioned, blocked, braced, and anchored to prevent movement and damage.

(iv) All products shall be secured to pallets with non-metallic strapping. The strapping and the manner employed shall be of sufficient quantity, width, and thickness to preclude failure during transit and handling.

(v) The use of shrink or stretch film to secure the load to the pallet is permitted. However, such film must be applied over the required strapping.

(vi) Containers that are too large or heavy to be palletized, such as crates, shall be shipped in their own containers. When practical, these containers shall be provided with skids to facilitate fork-lift handling.

(vii) When packaged, the outer cartons shall meet the requirements of the Uniform Freight Classification and the National Motor Freight Classification.
