
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1755 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
##### ยง 1755.910 RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.
###### Operational requirements,Durability.

(5)-(i)In order to verify the durability requirements while minimizing the number of test housings required to complete the test program, the contacts selected for tests shall be separately identified and then checked to establish compliance after the various tests have been conducted.

(ii) Twenty-five jumper connections shall be made on each of two contacts chosen at random from a representative sample in an assembled interface unit. After this test, these and surrounding contacts shall be inspected for damage such as cracks or chips in metal or plastic parts. Failure consists of structural damage, open circuits through the connector, or inability to pass the jumper wire pullout tests described in paragraph (i)(3)(iv) of this section.

(iii) Select six contacts at random in a representative interface. On each of these contacts attach any test cord included with the unit as specified under normal use of that cord and then remove the test cord as follows. On sample 1, remove the cord normally ten times. On sample 2, remove the clip ten times by jerking the test leads straight out. In these and the remaining tests, do this without releasing any manual attachment mechanisms. On sample 3, remove ten times by jerking downward at 45 &#xB0;from horizontal; sample 4, upward 45 &#xB0;ten times; sample 5, left 45 &#xB0;ten times; sample 6, right 45 &#xB0;ten times. Check for opens and damage in the test cord, clips, and cross-connect modules. Failure consists of structural damage, open circuits through the connector, or inability of module to pass the test connector reliability, jumper wire pullout, and dielectric strength tests described in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii), (i)(3)(iv), and (i)(4)(ii) of this section.
