
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.15 General instructions.
####### Numbering system.

(b)(1) The account numbering plan used herein consists of a system of three-digit whole numbers as follows:

(2) In certain instances, numbers have been skipped in order to allow for possible later expansion or to permit better coordination with the numbering system for other utility departments.

(3) The numbers prefixed to account titles are to be considered as parts of the titles.

(i) Each utility, however, may adopt, for its own purposes, a different system of account numbers provided that the numbers herein prescribed shall appear in the descriptive headings of the ledger accounts and in the various sources of original entry.

(ii) If a utility uses a different group of account numbers and it is not practicable to show the prescribed account numbers in the various sources of original entry, such reference to the prescribed account numbers may be omitted from the various sources of original entry.

(iii) Each utility using different account numbers for its own purposes shall keep readily available, a list of such account numbers which it uses and a reconciliation of such account numbers with the account numbers provided herein.

(iv) The utility's records shall be so kept as to permit ready analysis by prescribed accounts (by direct reference to sources of original entry to the extent practicable) and to permit preparation of financial and operating statements directly from such records at the end of each accounting period according to the prescribed accounts.
