
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.15 General instructions.
####### Records.

(a)(1) Each utility shall keep its books of account, and all other books, records, and memoranda which support the entries in such books of account so as to be able to furnish readily full information as to any item included in any account.

(2) Each entry shall be supported by such detailed information as will permit ready identification, analysis, and verification of all facts relevant thereto.

(3) The books and records referred to herein include not only accounting records in a limited technical sense, but all other records, such as minute books, stock books, reports, correspondence, memoranda, etc., which may be useful in developing the history of or facts regarding any transaction.

(4) No utility shall destroy any such books or records unless the destruction thereof is permitted by the rules and regulations contained in subpart D of this part.

(5) In addition to the prescribed accounts, clearing accounts, temporary or experimental accounts, and subdivisions of any accounts, may be kept, provided the integrity of the prescribed accounts is not impaired.

(6) When the utility chooses to recognize the gain in the year of reacquisition as a taxable gain, Account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, shall be credited with the amount of the related tax effect, such amount to be allocated to the periods affected in accordance with the provisions of Account 190, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes.

(7) The arrangement or sequence of the accounts prescribed herein shall not be controlling as to the arrangement or sequence in report forms which may be prescribed by RUS.
