
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.15 General instructions.
####### Allowances.

(u)(1) Title IV of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Pub. L. 101-549, 104 Stat. 2399, 2584 (42 U.S.C. 7407 and 42 U.S.C. 7651), provides for the issuance of allowances as a means to limit the emissions of certain airborne pollutants by various entities, including utilities. Utilities owning allowances, other than those acquired for speculative purposes, shall account for such allowances at cost in Account 158.1, Allowance Inventory, or Account 158.2, Allowances Withheld, as appropriate. Allowances acquired for speculative purposes and identified as such in contemporaneous records at the time of purchase shall be accounted for in Account 124, Other Investments.

(2) When purchased, allowances become eligible for use in different years, and the allocation of the purchase cost cannot be determined by fair value, the purchase cost allocated to allowances of each vintage shall be determined through use of a present-value based measurement. The interest rate used in the present-value measurement shall be the utility's incremental borrowing rate, in the month in which the allowances are acquired, for a loan with a term similar to the period that it will hold the allowances and in an amount equal to the purchase price.

(3) The underlying records supporting Account 158.1 and Account 158.2 shall be maintained in sufficient detail so as to provide the number of allowances and the related cost by vintage year.

(4) Issuances from inventory included in Account 158.1 and Account 158.2 shall be accounted for on a vintage basis using a monthly weighted-average method of cost determination. The cost of eligible allowances not used in the current year shall be transferred to the vintage for the immediately following year.

(5) Account 158.1 shall be credited and Account 509, Allowances, debited so that the cost of the allowances to be remitted for the year is charged to expense monthly based on each month's emissions. This may, in certain circumstances, require allocation of the cost of an allowance between months on a fractional basis.

(6) In any period in which actual emissions exceed the amount allowable based on eligible allowances owned, the utility shall estimate the cost to acquire the additional allowances needed and charge Account 158.1 with the estimated cost. This estimated cost of future allowance acquisitions shall be credited to Account 158.1 and charged to Account 509 in the same accounting period as the related charge to Account 158.1. Should the actual cost of these allowances differ from the estimated cost, the differences shall be recognized in the then-current period's inventory issuance cost.

(7) Any penalties assessed by the Environmental Protection Agency for the emission of excess pollutants shall be charged to Account 426.3, Penalties.

(8) Gains on dispositions of allowances, other than allowances held for speculative purposes, shall be accounted for as follows. First, if there is uncertainty as to the regulatory treatment, the gain shall be deferred in Account 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, pending resolution of the uncertainty. Second, if there is certainty as to the existence of a regulatory liability, the gain will be credited to Account 254, with subsequent recognition in income when reductions in charges to customers occur or the liability is otherwise satisfied. Third, all other gains will be credited to Account 411.8, Gains from Disposition of Allowances. Losses on disposition of allowances, other than allowances held for speculative purposes, shall be accounted for as follows. Losses that qualify as regulatory assets shall be charged directly to Account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets. All other losses shall be charged to Account 411.9, Losses from Disposition of Allowances. (See the definition of regulatory assets and liabilities.) Gains or losses on disposition of allowances held for speculative purposes shall be recognized in Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, or Account 426.5, Other Deductions, as appropriate.

(9) The costs and benefits of exchange-traded allowance futures contracts used to protect the utility from the risk of unfavorable price changes ("hedging transactions") shall be deferred in Account 186, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits, or Account 253, Other Deferred Credits, as appropriate. Such deferred amounts shall be included in Account 158.1, Allowance Inventory, in the month in which the related allowances are acquired, sold or otherwise disposed of. Where the costs or benefits of hedging transactions are not identifiable with specific allowances, the amounts shall be included in Account 158.1 when the futures contract is closed. The costs and benefits of exchange-traded allowance futures contracts entered into as a speculating activity shall be charged or credited to Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, or Account 426.5, Other Deductions, as appropriate.
