
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.15 General instructions.
####### Accounting for leases.

(t)(1) All leases shall be classified as either capital or operating leases.

(2) The utility shall record a capital lease as an asset in Account 101.1, Property Under Capital Leases, Account 120.6, Nuclear Fuel Under Capital Leases or Account 121, Nonutility Property;

(3) The utility, as a lessee, shall recognize an asset retirement obligation arising from the plant under a capital lease unless the obligation is recorded as an asset and liability under a capital lease. The utility shall record the asset retirement cost by debiting Account 101.1, Property Under Capital Leases, or Account 120.6, Nuclear Fuel Under Capital Leases, or Account 121, Nonutility Property, as appropriate, and crediting the liability for the asset retirement obligation in Account 230, Asset Retirement Obligations. Asset retirement costs recorded in Account 101.1, Account 120.6, or Account 121 shall be amortized by charging rent expense, or Account 518, Nuclear Fuel Expense, or Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, as appropriate, and crediting a separate subaccount of the account in which the asset retirement costs are recorded. Charges for the periodic accretion of the liability in Account 230, Asset Retirement Obligations, shall be recorded by a charge to Account 411.10, Accretion Expense, for electric utility plant, and Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, for nonutility plant and a credit to Account 230, Asset Retirement Obligations.

(4) Rental payments on all leases shall be charged to rent expense, fuel expense, construction work in progress, or other appropriate accounts as they become payable.

(5) For a capital lease, for each period during the lease term, the amounts recorded for the asset and obligation shall be reduced by an amount equal to the portion of each lease payment that would have been allocated to the reduction of the obligation, if the payment had been treated as a payment on an installment obligation (liability) and allocated between interest expense and a reduction of the obligation so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance.
