
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.15 General instructions.
####### Reacquisition, with refunding.

(3)(i) When the redemption of one issue or series of bonds or other long-term obligations is financed by another issue or series before the maturity date of the first issue, the difference between the amount paid upon refunding and the face value; plus any unamortized premium less related debt expense or less any unamortized discount and related debt expense, applicable to the debt refunded, shall be included in Account 189, Unamortized Loss on Reacquired Debt, or Account 257, Unamortized Gain on Reacquired Debt, as appropriate.

(ii) The utility may elect to account for such amounts as follows:

(A) Write them off immediately when the amounts are insignificant;

(B) Amortize them by equal monthly amounts over the remainder of the original life of the issue retired; or

(C) Amortize them by equal monthly amounts over the life of the new issue.

(iii) Once an election is made, it shall be applied on a consistent basis.

(iv) The amounts in paragraphs (q)(3)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section shall be charged to Account 428.1, Amortization of Loss on Reacquired Debt, or credited to Account 429.1, Amortization of Gain on Reacquired Debt-Credit, as appropriate.

(4) Under methods in paragraphs (q)(3)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, the increase or reduction in current income taxes resulting from the reacquisition should be apportioned over the remainder of the original life of the issued retired or over the life of the new issue, as appropriate, as directed more specifically in paragraphs (q)(5) and (6) of this section.

(5) When the utility recognizes the loss in the year of reacquisition as a tax deduction, Account 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, shall be debited and Account 283, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Other, shall be credited with the amount of the related tax effect, such amount to be allocated to the periods affected in accordance with the provisions of Account 283.

(6) When the utility chooses to recognize the gain in the year of reacquisition as a taxable gain, Account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, shall be debited with the amount of the related tax effect, such amount to be allocated to the periods affected in accordance with the provisions of Account 190, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes.

(7) When the utility chooses to use the optional privilege of deferring the tax on the gain attributable to the reacquisition of debt by reducing the depreciable basis of utility property for tax purposes, pursuant to Section 108 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 108), the related tax effects shall be deferred as the income is recognized for accounting purposes, and the deferred amounts shall be amortized over the life of the associated property on a vintage year basis.

(i) Account 410.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes, Utility Operating Income, shall be debited, and Account 282, Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes-Other Property, shall be credited with an amount equal to the estimated income tax effect applicable to the portion of the income, attributable to reacquired debt, recognized for accounting purposes during the period.

(ii) Account 282 shall be debited and Account 411.1, Provision for Deferred Income Taxes-Credit, Utility Operating Income, shall be credited with an amount equal to the estimated income tax effects, during the life of the property, attributable to the reduction in the depreciable basis for tax purposes.

(8) The tax effects relating to gain or loss shall be allocated as above to utility operations except in cases where a portion of the debt reacquired is directly applicable to nonutility operations.

(i) In that event, the related portion of the tax effects shall be allocated to nonutility operations.

(ii) Where it can be established that reacquired debt is generally applicable to both utility and nonutility operations, the tax effects shall be allocated between utility and nonutility operations based on the ratio of net investment in utility plant to net investment in nonutility plant.

(9) Premium, discount, or expense on debt shall not be included as an element in the cost of construction or acquisition of property (tangible or intangible), except under the provisions of Account 432, Allowance for Borrowed Funds Used During Construction-Credit.
