
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.16 Electric plant instructions.
####### Electric plant to be recorded at cost.

(b)(1) All amounts included in the accounts for electric plant acquired as an operating unit or system, except as otherwise provided in the texts of the intangible plant accounts, shall be stated at the cost incurred by the person who first devoted the property to utility service. All other electric plant shall be included in the accounts at the cost incurred by the utility except for property acquired by lease which qualifies as capital lease property under ยง 1767.15 (s), Criteria for Classifying Leases, and is recorded in Account 101.1, Property Under Capital Lease, or Account 120.6, Nuclear Fuel Under Capital Leases. Where the term "cost" is used in the detailed plant accounts, it shall have the meaning stated in this paragraph (b).

(2) When the consideration given for property is other than cash, the value of such consideration shall be determined on a cash basis (see, however, the definition of cost in ยง 1767.10). In the entry recording such transition, the actual consideration shall be described with sufficient particularity to identify it. The utility shall be prepared to furnish RUS the particulars of its determination of the cash value of the consideration if other than cash.

(3) When property is purchased under a plan involving deferred payments, no charge shall be made to the electric plant accounts for interest, insurance, or other expenditures occasioned solely by such form of payment.

(4) The electric plant accounts shall not include the cost or other value of electric plant contributed to the company. Contributions in the form of money or its equivalent toward the construction of electric plant shall be credited to accounts charged with the cost of such construction. Plant constructed from contributions of cash or its equivalent shall be shown as a reduction to gross plant constructed when assembling cost data in work orders for posting to plant ledgers of accounts. The accumulated gross costs of plant accumulated in the work order shall be recorded as a debit in the plant ledger of accounts along with the related amount of contributions concurrently be recorded as a credit.
