
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.16 Electric plant instructions.
####### Classification of electric plant at effective date of system of accounts.

(a)(1) The electric plant accounts provided herein are the same as those contained in the prior system of accounts except for inclusion of accounts for nuclear production plant and some changes in classification in the general equipment accounts. Except for these changes, the balances in the various plant accounts, as determined under the prior system of accounts, should be carried forward. Any remaining balance of plant which has not yet been classified, pursuant to the requirements of the prior system, shall be classified in accordance with the following instructions.

(2) The cost to the utility of its unclassified plant shall be ascertained by analysis of the utility's records. Adjustments shall not be made to record in utility plant accounts amounts previously charged to operating expenses or to income deductions in accordance with the USoA in effect at the time or in accordance with the discretion of management as exercised under a USoA, or under accounting practices previously followed.

(3) The detailed electric plant accounts (301 to 399, inclusive) shall be stated on the basis of cost to the utility of plant constructed by it and the original cost, estimated if not known, of plant acquired as an operating unit or system. The difference between the original cost, as above, and the cost to the utility of electric plant after giving effect to any accumulated provision for depreciation or amortization shall be recorded in Account 114, Electric Plant Acquisition Adjustments. The original cost of electric plant shall be determined by analysis of the utility's records or those of the predecessor or vendor companies with respect to electric plant previously acquired as operating units or systems and the difference between the original cost so determined, less accumulated provisions for depreciation and amortization and the cost to the utility with necessary adjustments for retirements from date of acquisition, shall be entered in Account 114, Electric Plant Acquisition Adjustments. Any difference between the cost of electric plant and its book cost, when not properly includible in other accounts, shall be recorded in Account 116, Other Electric Plant Adjustments.

(4) Plant acquired by lease which qualifies as capital lease property under Sec. 1767.15(s), Criteria for Classifying Leases, shall be recorded in Account 101.1, Property Under Capital Leases, or Account 120.6, Nuclear Fuel Under Capital Leases, as appropriate.
