
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.15 General instructions.
####### Accounting for other comprehensive income.

(w)(1) Utilities shall record items of other comprehensive income in Account 209, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Amounts included in this account shall be maintained by each category of other comprehensive income. Examples of categories of other comprehensive income include foreign currency items, minimum pension liability adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale type securities and cash flow hedge amounts. Supporting records shall be maintained for Account 209 so that the cumulative amount of other comprehensive income for each item included in this account can be readily identified.

(2) When an item of other comprehensive income enters into the determination of net income in the current or subsequent periods, a reclassification adjustment shall be recorded in Account 209 to avoid double counting of that amount.

(3) When it is probable that an item of other comprehensive income will be included in the development of cost-of-service rates in subsequent periods, that amount of unrealized losses or gains will be recorded in Accounts 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets or 254, Other Regulatory Liabilities, as appropriate.
