
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.16 Electric plant instructions.
####### Earnings and expenses during construction.

(18)The earnings and expenses during construction shall constitute a component of construction costs.

(i) The earnings shall include revenues received or earned for power produced by generating plants during the construction period and sold or used by the utility.

(A) Where such power is sold to an independent purchaser before intermingling with power generated by other plants, the credit shall consist of the selling price of the energy.

(B) Where the power generated by a plant under construction is delivered to the utility's electric system for distribution and sale, or is delivered to an associated company, or is delivered to and used by the utility for purposes other than distribution and sale (for manufacturing or industrial use, for example), the credit shall be the fair value of the energy so delivered.

(C) Revenue shall also include rentals for lands, buildings, and other property, and miscellaneous receipts not properly includible in other accounts.

(ii) Expenses shall consist of the cost of operating the power plant, and other costs incident to the production and delivery of the power for which construction is credited under paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section, including the cost of repairs and other expenses of operating and maintaining lands, buildings, and other property, and other miscellaneous and like expenses not properly includible in other accounts.
