
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Uniform System of Accounts
###### ยง 1767.16 Electric plant instructions.
####### Equipment.

(i)(1) The cost of equipment chargeable to the electric plant accounts, unless otherwise indicated in the text of an equipment account, includes the net purchase price thereof, sales taxes, investigation and inspection expenses necessary to such purchase, expenses of transportation when borne by the utility, labor employed, materials, and supplies consumed, and expenses incurred by the utility in unloading and placing the equipment in readiness to operate.

(2) Also include those costs incurred in connection with the first clearing and grading of land and rights-of-way and the damage costs associated with construction and installation of plant.

(3) Exclude from equipment accounts hand and other portable tools, which are likely to be lost or stolen or which have relatively small value (for example, $500 or less) or short life, unless the correctness of the accounting therefor as electric plant is verified by current inventories.

(i) Special tools acquired and included in the purchase price of equipment shall be included in the appropriate plant accounts.

(ii) Portable drills and similar tool equipment when used in connection with the operation and maintenance of a particular plan or department, such as production, transmission, or distribution or in "stores", shall be charged to the plant accounts appropriate for their use.

(4) The equipment accounts shall include angle irons and similar items which are installed at the base of an item of equipment, but piers and foundations which are designed to be as permanent as the buildings which house the equipment, or which are constructed as a part of the building and which cannot be removed without cutting into the walls, ceilings, or floors or, without in some way impairing the building, shall be included in the building accounts.

(5) The equipment accounts shall include the necessary costs of testing or running a plant or parts thereof during an experimental or test period prior to such plant becoming ready for or placed in service.

(i) The utility shall furnish RUS with full particulars of and justification for any test or experimental run extending beyond a period of 120 days for nuclear plant, and a period of 90 days for all other plant.

(ii) Such particulars shall include a detailed operational and downtime log showing days of production, gross kilowatts generated by hourly increments, types, and periods of outages by hours with explanation thereof, beginning with the first date the equipment was either tested or synchronized on the line to the end of the test period.

(6) The cost of efficiency or other tests made subsequent to the date equipment becomes available for service shall be charged to the appropriate expense accounts, except that tests to determine whether equipment meets the specifications and requirements as to efficiency, or performance guaranteed by manufacturers, made after operations have commenced and within the period specified in the agreement or contract of purchase, may be charged to the appropriate electric plant accounts.
