
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1767 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS ELECTRIC BORROWERS
##### Subpart D - Preservation of Records
###### ยง 1767.70 Record storage media.

The media used to capture and store the data will play an important part of each Rural Development borrower. Each borrower has the flexibility to select its own storage media. The following are required:

(a) The storage media shall have a life expectancy at least equal to the applicable retention period provided for in the master index of records, unless there is a quality transfer from one media to another with no loss of data. Each transfer of data from one media to another shall be verified for accuracy and documented.

(b) Each borrower shall implement internal control procedures that assure the reliability of, and ready access to, data stored on machine-readable media. The borrower's internal control procedures shall be documented by a responsible supervisory official.

(c) Records shall be indexed and retained in such a manner that they are easily accessible.

(d) The borrower shall have the hardware and software available to locate, identify, and reproduce the records in readable form without loss of clarity.

(e) At the expiration of the retention period, the borrower may use any appropriate method to destroy records.

(f) When any records are lost or destroyed before the expiration of the retention period set forth in the master index, a certified statement shall be added to the master index listing, as far as may be determined, the records lost or destroyed and describing the circumstances of the premature loss or destruction.
