
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1770 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS
##### Subpart C - Accounting Interpretations
###### Appendix to Subpart C of Part 1770 - Accounting Methods and Procedures Required of All Borrowers
####### Joint Venture.

2.i. If a borrower provides satellite or cable television services through a joint venture, the borrower's ownership interest dictates the accounting methodology. If the borrower has less than a 20 percent ownership interest in the joint venture, the investment is accounted for under the cost method of accounting in Account 1402, Investments in Nonaffiliated Companies. Under the cost method, the joint venture's net income or loss is not recorded in the borrower's records. Income is recognized only to the extent of any dividends declared by the joint venture. When a dividend is declared, the borrower shall debit Account 1210, Interest and Dividends Receivable, and credit Account 7310, Dividend Income. When the dividend is received in cash, the borrower shall debit Account 1130.1, Cash-General Fund, and credit Account 1210.

ii. If a borrower has a 20-percent or more ownership interest in the joint venture, the investment is accounted for under the equity method in Account 1401, Investments in Affiliated Companies. The borrower's proportionate share of the joint venture's net income or loss shall be debited or credited to Account 1401, as appropriate, with an offsetting entry to Account 7360, Other Nonoperating Income.
