
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1770 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS
##### Subpart C - Accounting Interpretations
###### Appendix to Subpart C of Part 1770 - Accounting Methods and Procedures Required of All Borrowers
####### Sale and Installation of Satellite or Cable Television Equipment.

4.i. If a borrower sells or installs satellite or cable television equipment as a segment of its current operations and there are no shared assets between this activity and the regulated telecommunications activities of the borrower, the purchase of the equipment shall be debited to Account 1406.1, Nonregulated Investments-Permanent Investment. The net income or loss from providing such services shall be debited or credited, as appropriate, to Account 1406.3, Nonregulated Investments-Current Net Income, with an offsetting entry to Account 7990, Nonregulated Net Income.

ii. If a borrower sells or installs satellite or cable television equipment as a segment of its current operations and shares assets between this activity and the regulated telecommunications activities of the borrower, the purchase of the equipment shall be debited to Account 1220.2, Property Held for Sale or Lease. Revenues received for the sale or installation of the equipment shall be credited to Account 5280, Nonregulated Operating Revenue, while the associated expenses shall be debited to a subaccount of the applicable regulated expense accounts.

A. In October 1987, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 94, Consolidation of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries (Statement No. 94). (Statement 94 is available from the Financial Accounting Standards Board, 401 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 5116, Norwalk, CT 06856-5116.) For purposes of reporting to RUS, Statement No. 94 shall be applied as follows:

1. A borrower that is a subsidiary of another entity shall prepare and submit to RUS separate financial statements even though this financial information is presented in the parent's consolidated statements.

2. In those cases in which a borrower has a majority-ownership in a subsidiary, the borrower shall prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of Statement No. 94. These consolidated statements must also include supplementary schedules presenting a Balance Sheet and Income Statement for each majority-owned subsidiary included in the consolidated statements.

B. Although Statement No. 94 requires the consolidation of majority-owned subsidiaries, the RUS Form 479, Financial and Statistical Report for Telecommunications Borrowers, shall be prepared on an unconsolidated basis by all borrowers.

A. Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 34, Capitalization of Interest Cost, established the standards for capitalizing interest cost as a part of the historical cost of acquiring certain assets. In order to capitalize interest, the asset must require a period of time to complete or to get it ready for its intended use. This standard applies to all entities that construct facilities for their own use and should be applied by RUS Telecommunications borrowers as follows:

1. Only actual interest costs incurred on external borrowings qualify to be capitalized. The interest rate used to calculate the amount of interest to be capitalized is based on the companies external borrowings. If a construction project is associated with specific debt, the interest rate on that debt is used to calculate interest cost to be capitalized. If the project is not associated with a specific debt, a weighted average of the rates of all existing debt shall be applied to expenditures for the project. There is no materiality threshold for adoption of this standard (47 CFR 32.26).

2. If a borrower is involved in a joint construction project, all determinations as to the amount of interest incurred and qualified for capitalization must be based on individual financing arrangements with regard to the Interest During Construction rules.

3. The capitalization period shall end when the asset is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.

A. The following information with respect to interest cost shall be disclosed in the financial statements or related notes:

1. For an accounting period in which no interest cost is capitalized, the amount of interest cost incurred and charged to expense during the period.

2. For an accounting period in which some interest cost is capitalized, the total amount of interest cost incurred during the period and the amount thereof that has been capitalized.
