
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1770 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS
##### Subpart C - Accounting Interpretations
###### Appendix to Subpart C of Part 1770 - Accounting Methods and Procedures Required of All Borrowers
####### et seq.

A. On December 21, 1987, Section 313, Cushion of Credit Payments Program (7 U.S.C. 901), was added to the RE Act. Section 313 establishes a Rural Economic Development Subaccount and authorizes the Administrator of the RUS to provide zero interest loans or grants to RE Act borrowers for the purpose of promoting rural economic development and job creation projects. Effective December 5, 1994, this authority was assigned to the Administrator, Rural Business and Cooperative Development Service.

B. 7 CFR part 1703, Subpart B, Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program, sets forth the policies and procedures relating to the zero interest loan program and for approving and administering grants.

A. The accounting journal entries required to record the transactions associated with a Rural Economic Development grant are as follows:

B. The accounting journal entries required to record the transactions associated with a Rural Economic Development loan are as follows:

A. Many RUS borrowers have become involved in providing either satellite or cable television services to their members and others through subsidiaries, joint ventures, or as segments of their current operations.

A. This section outlines the accounting to be followed when recording transactions involving satellite or cable television services.

1. Separate Subsidiary. If a borrower provides satellite or cable television services through a separate subsidiary, the investment in the subsidiary shall be debited to Account 1401, Investments in Affiliated Companies. The net income or loss of the subsidiary shall be debited or credited to Account 1401, as appropriate, with an offsetting entry to Account 7360, Other Nonoperating Income.
