
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1770 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS
##### Subpart C - Accounting Interpretations
###### Appendix to Subpart C of Part 1770 - Accounting Methods and Procedures Required of All Borrowers

All borrowers shall maintain and keep their books of accounts and all other books and records which support the entries in such books of accounts in accordance with the accounting principles prescribed in this appendix.

A. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (Statement No. 106), requires reporting entities to accrue the expected cost of postretirement benefits during the years the employee provides service to the entity. For purposes of applying the provisions of Statement No. 106, members of the board of directors are considered to be employees of the cooperative. Prior to the issuance of Statement No. 106, most reporting entities accounted for postretirement benefit costs on a "pay-as-you-go" basis; that is, costs were recognized when paid, not when the employee provided service to the entity in exchange for the benefits. (Statement 106 is available from the Financial Accounting Standards Board, 401 Merritt 7, P.O. Box 5116, Norwalk, CT. 06856-5116.)

B. As defined in Statement No. 106, a postretirement benefit plan is a deferred compensation arrangement in which an employer promises to exchange future benefits for an employee's current services. Postretirement benefit plans may be funded or unfunded. Postretirement benefits include, but are not limited to, health care, life insurance, tuition assistance, day care, legal services, and housing subsidies provided outside of a pension plan.

C. Statement No. 106 applies to both written plans and to plans whose existence is implied from a practice of paying postretirement benefits. An employer's practice of providing postretirement benefits to selected employees under individual contracts with specific terms determined on an employee-by-employee basis does not, however, constitute a postretirement benefit plan under the provisions of this statement.

D. Postretirement benefit plans generally fall into three categories: single-employer defined benefit plans, multiemployer plans, and multiple-employer plans.

E. A single-employer plan is a postretirement benefit plan that is maintained by one employer. The term may also be applied to a plan that is maintained by related parties such as a parent and its subsidiaries. A multiemployer plan is a postretirement benefit plan in which two or more unrelated employers contribute, usually pursuant to one or more collective-bargaining agreements. One characteristic of a multiemployer plan is that the assets contributed by one participating employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers since assets contributed by an employer are not segregated in a separate account or restricted to provide benefits only to employees of that employer.

F. A multiple-employer plan is a postretirement benefit plan that is maintained by more than one employer but is not a multiemployer plan. A multiple-employer plan is generally not collectively bargained and is intended to allow participating employers to pool their plan assets for investment purposes and reduce the cost of plan administration. A multiple-employer plan maintains separate accounts for each employer so that contributions provide benefits only for employees of the contributing employer.

G. The accounting requirements set forth in this interpretation focus on single- and multiple-employer plans. The accounting requirements set forth in Statement No. 106 for multiemployer plans or defined contribution plans shall be adopted for borrowers electing those types of plans.

H. Under the provisions of Statement No. 106, there are two components of the postretirement benefit cost: the current period cost and the transition obligation. The transition obligation is a one-time accrual of the costs resulting from services already provided. Statement No. 106 allows the transition obligation to be deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the active employees. If the average remaining service period of the active employees is less than 20 years, a 20-year amortization period may be used.

A. All borrowers shall adopt the accrual accounting provisions and reporting requirements as set forth in Statement No. 106. The transition obligation and accrual of the current period cost must be based upon an actuarial study. This study must be updated to allow the borrower to comply with the measurement date requirements of Statement No. 106; however, the study must, at a minimum, be updated every five years. Borrowers may not account for postretirement benefits on a "pay-as-you-go" basis.

B. Under the provisions of Statement No. 106, an entity may recognize the transition obligation, in its entirety, when Statement No. 106 is first adopted or the entity may elect to delay the recognition of the transition obligation. On December 26, 1991, however, the FCC issued 6 FCC Rcd 7560, which requires telecommunications carriers to recognize the transition obligation on a delayed basis. RUS reviewed this issuance and has determined that borrowers must comply with this ruling and recognize the transition obligation on a delayed basis.

C. The deferral and amortization of the transition obligation on a delayed basis is considered to be an off balance sheet item. As a result, an accounting entry is not required at the time of adoption of Statement No. 106. Instead, the transition obligation is recognized as a component of postretirement benefit cost as it is amortized. The amount of the unamortized transition obligation must be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.

D. In accordance with the provisions of Responsible Accounting Officer (RAO) Letter 20, released by the FCC on April 24, 1992, Account 4310, Other Long-Term Liabilities, shall be used to record the liability accrued for postretirement benefits. (RAO Letter 20 is available from the Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554.) Borrowers shall credit this account for the net periodic cost of postretirement benefits for the current year and shall debit this account for any fund payments made during the current year.

E. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost includes current period service cost, interest cost, return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost, gains and losses, and amortization of the transition obligation. If fund payments create a debit balance in the postretirement benefits portion of Account 4310, the debit balance applicable to postretirement benefits shall be reported in Account 1410, Other Noncurrent Assets. Account 1410 shall also be used to record any prepaid postretirement benefit cost.

F. The benefits portion of the expense matrix for the appropriate Part 32 expense accounts shall be used to record the current period service cost component of the current year's net periodic postretirement benefit cost. The interest cost component, return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost, gains and losses, and amortization of the transition obligation shall be charged to the benefits portion of the expense matrix of Account 6728, Other General and Administrative.

A. For plans outside the United States and for defined benefit plans of employers that (a) are nonpublic enterprises and (b) sponsor defined benefit postretirement plans with no more than 500 plan participants in the aggregate, Statement No. 106 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994. For all other plans, Statement No. 106 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1992.

A. Capital stock issued by the Rural Telephone Bank consists of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. Class A stock is issued only to the Administrator of RUS on behalf of the United States in exchange for capital furnished to RTB.

B. Class B stock is issued only to recipients of loans under Section 408 of the Rural Electrification Act (RE Act). Borrowers receiving loan funds pursuant to Section 408(a) (1) or (2) of the RE Act are required to invest 5 percent of the amount of loan funds approved in Class B stock. No dividends are payable on Class B stock. All holders of Class B stock are entitled to patronage refunds in the form of Class B stock under the terms and conditions specified in the bylaws of the RTB.

C. Class C stock is available for purchase by borrowers, corporations, and public bodies eligible to borrow under Section 408 of the RE Act, or by organizations controlled by such borrowers, corporations and public bodies. The payment of dividends is in accordance with the bylaws of the RTB.

A. The purchase of RTB stock required by the RE Act shall be debited to Account 1402.1, Investments in Nonaffiliated Companies-Class B RTB Stock. Patronage refunds in the form of additional shares of RTB Class B Stock shall be debited to Account 1402.1 and credited to Account 1402.11, Investments in Nonaffiliated Companies-Class B RTB Stock-Cr.

B. Purchases of Class C RTB stock shall be debited to Account 1402.2, Investments in Nonaffiliated Companies-Class C RTB Stock. Cash dividends received on Class C RTB stock shall be credited to Account 7310, Dividend Income.

C. Once a borrower has repaid all of its RTB loans, it may request that its Class B stock be converted to Class C stock. When the conversion is made, Account 1402.2 shall be debited and Account 1402.1 shall be credited for the face value of the stock converted. Account 1402.21, Investments in Nonaffiliated Companies-Class C RTB Stock-Cr., shall be credited and Account 1402.11 shall be debited for the face value of the Class B stock that has been received as patronage refunds.

A. The RUS Cushion of Credit account is an investment account bearing an interest rate of 5 percent. All voluntary payments or overpayments on Rural Electric and Telephone Revolving Fund (RETRF) loans made after October 1, 1987, are deposited into this account in the appropriate borrower's name.

A. The following journal entries shall be used by RUS borrowers to record the transactions associated with cushion of credit payment:
