
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1770 - ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RUS TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS
##### Subpart C - Accounting Interpretations
###### Appendix to Subpart C of Part 1770 - Accounting Methods and Procedures Required of All Borrowers
####### other comprehensive income

C. RUS Telecommunications borrowers that present a single Statement of Operations and Patronage Capital should present the components ofbelow the total for net income and then present the reconciliation of patronage capital (Retained Earnings). Borrowers that present a separate Statement of Patronage Capital (or Retained Earnings) should display the beginning balance of patronage capital (or retained earnings), net income for the period, other items of comprehensive income and total comprehensive income before the presentation of other items of patronage capital (or retained earnings) for the period.

A. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 132, Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, issued in February 1998, is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998. This statement revises employers' disclosure requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit plans. It does not change the measurement or recognition of those plans. The statement also permits reduced disclosures for nonpublic entities, which are defined as any entity other than one:

1. Whose debt or equity securities trade in a public market either on a domestic or foreign stock exchange or in the over-the-counter market, including securities quoted only locally or regionally,

2. That makes a filing with a regulatory agency in preparation for the sale of any class of debt or equity securities in a public market, or

3. That is controlled by an entity covered by 1 or 2 above.

A. A commercial RUS Telecommunications borrower that meets the definition of a public entity and sponsors one or more defined benefit pension or postretirement benefit plan shall provide the following information on a comparative basis for the statements presented:

1. A reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation showing separately, if applicable, the effects during the period attributable to each of the following:

(a) Service cost,

(b) Interest cost,

(c) Contributions by plan participants,

(d) Actuarial gains and losses,

(e) Foreign currency exchange rate changes,

(f) Benefits paid,

(g) Plan amendments,

(h) Business combinations,

(i) Divestitures,

(j) Curtailments,

(k) Settlements, and

(l) Special termination benefits.

2. A reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets showing separately, if applicable, the effects during the period attributable to each of the following:

(a) Actual return on plan assets,

(b) Foreign currency exchange rate changes,

(c) Contributions by the employer,

(d) Contributions by plan participants,

(e) Benefits paid,

(f) Business combinations,

(g) Divestitures, and

(h) Settlements.

3. The funded status of the plans, the amounts not recognized in the statement of financial position, and the amounts recognized in the statement of financial position, including:

(a) The amount of any unamortized prior service cost.

(b) The amount of any unrecognized net gain or loss (including asset gains and losses not yet reflected in market-related value).

(c) The amount of any remaining unamortized, unrecognized net obligation or net asset existing at the initial date of application of SFAS No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, or SFAS No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.

(d) The net pension or other postretirement benefit prepaid assets or accrued liabilities.

(e) Any intangible asset and the amount of accumulated other comprehensive income recognized pursuant to paragraph 37 of SFAS No. 87, as amended.

4. The amount of net periodic benefit cost recognized, showing separately:

(a) The service cost component,

(b) The interest cost component,

(c) The expected return on plan assets for the period,

(d) The amortization of the unrecognized transition obligation or transition asset,

(e) The amount of recognized gains and losses, the amount of prior service cost recognized, and

(f) The amount of gain or loss recognized due to a settlement or curtailment.

5. The amount included within other comprehensive income for the period arising from a change in the additional minimum pension liability recognized pursuant to paragraph 37 of SFAS No. 87, as amended.

6. On a weighted-average basis, the following assumptions used in the accounting for the plans:

(a) Assumed discount rate,

(b) Rate of compensation increase (for pay-related plans), and

(c) Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.

7. The assumed health care cost trend rate(s) for the next year used to measure the expected cost of benefits covered by the plan (gross eligible charges) and a general description of the direction and pattern of change in the assumed trend rates thereafter, together with the ultimate trend rate(s) and when that rate is expected to be achieved.

8. The effect of a one-percentage-point increase and the effect of a one-percentage-point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates on (for purposes of this disclosure, all other assumptions shall be held constant, and the effects shall be measured based on the substantive plan that is the basis for the accounting):

(a) The aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement health care benefit cost, and

(b) The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for health care benefits.

9. If applicable, the amounts and types of securities of the employer and related parties included in plan assets, the approximate amount of future annual benefits of plan participants covered by insurance contracts issued by the employer or related parties, and any significant transactions between the employer or related parties and the plan during the period.

10. If applicable, any alternative amortization method used to amortize prior service amounts or unrecognized net gains and losses pursuant to paragraphs 26 and 33 of SFAS No. 87 or paragraphs 53 and 60 of SFAS No. 106.

11. If applicable, any substantive commitment, such as past practice or a history of regular benefit increases, used as the basis for accounting for the benefit obligation.

12. If applicable, the cost of providing special or contractual termination benefits recognized during the period and a description of the nature of the event.

13. An explanation of any significant change in the benefit obligation or plan assets not otherwise apparent in the other disclosures.

B. RUS Telecommunications borrowers that sponsor two or more pension or postretirement plans may aggregate the required disclosures. If the disclosures are aggregated, the aggregate benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets must be disclosed.

C. RUS Telecommunications borrowers sponsoring defined contribution plans shall disclose the amount of cost recognized for defined contribution pension or other postretirement benefit plans during the period separately from the amount of cost recognized for defined benefit plans. The disclosures shall include a description of the nature and effect of any significant changes during the period affecting comparability, such as a change in the rate of employer contributions, a business combination, or a divestiture.

A. RUS commercial and cooperative type borrowers that meet the definition of a nonpublic entity, as previously defined, may elect to meet the following reduced disclosure requirements:

1. The benefit obligation.

2. Fair value of plan assets.

3. Funded status of the plan.

4. Employer contributions.

5. Participant contributions.

6. Benefits paid.

7. The amounts recognized in the statement of financial position, including the net pension and other postretirement benefit prepaid assets or accrued liabilities and any intangible asset and the amount of accumulated other comprehensive income recognized pursuant to paragraph 37 of SFAS No. 87, as amended.

8. The amount of net periodic benefit cost recognized and the amount included within other comprehensive income arising from a change in the minimum pension liability recognized pursuant to paragraph 37 of SFAS No. 87, as amended.

9. On a weighted-average basis, the following assumptions used in the accounting for the plans: Assumed discount rate, rate of compensation increase (for pay-related plans), and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.

10. The assumed health care cost trend rate(s) for the next year used to measure the expected cost of benefits covered by the plan (gross eligible charges) and a general description of the direction and pattern of change in the assumed trend rates thereafter, together with the ultimate trend rate(s) and when that rate is expected to be achieved.

11. If applicable, the amounts and types of securities of the employer and related parties included in plan assets, the approximate amount of future annual benefits of plan participants covered by insurance contracts issued by the employer or related parties, and any significant transactions between the employer or related parties and the plan during the period.

12. The nature and effect of significant nonroutine events, such as amendments, combinations, divestitures, curtailments, and settlements.

B. The majority of RUS Telecommunications borrowers will fall within the definition of nonpublic entities with exception of those held by publicly traded holding companies.

A. An RUS Telecommunications borrower shall disclose the amount of contributions to multiemployer plans during the period. The borrower may disclose total contributions to multiemployer plans without disaggregating the amounts attributable to pensions and other postretirement benefits. The disclosures shall include a description of the nature and effect of any changes affecting comparability, such as a change in the rate of employer contributions, a business combination, or a divestiture.

B. In some cases, withdrawal from a multiemployer plan results in an obligation to the plan for a portion of the plan's unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. If it is either probable or reasonably possible that (a) an employer would withdraw from the plan under circumstances that would give rise to an obligation or (b) an employer's contribution to the fund would be increased during the remainder of the contract period to make up a shortfall in the funds necessary to maintain the negotiated level of benefit coverage, the employer shall apply the provisions of SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies.
