
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1773 - POLICY ON AUDITS OF RUS BORROWERS AND GRANTEES
##### Subpart B - RUS Audit Requirements
###### ยง 1773.4 Auditee's responsibilities.
####### Preparation of schedules.

(g)The auditee must prepare any schedules that are required by the auditor to perform the audit, including a schedule of deferred debits and deferred credits and a detailed schedule of investments in subsidiary and affiliated companies accounted for on the cost, equity, or consolidated basis. The detailed schedule of investments can be included in the notes to the financial statements or as a separate schedule as long as all information required is adequately disclosed. Samples of these schedules can be found in Appendices A-D, of RUS Bulletin 1773-1.

(1) The schedule of deferred debits and deferred credits must include a description of the deferral and a notation as to whether the deferral has received written approval from RUS. If a determination is made that prior written approval is not required, cite the specific authority for the deferral.

(2) The schedule of investments must include investments in subsidiary and affiliated companies, corporations, limited liability corporations and partnerships, joint ventures, etc. accounted for on either the cost, equity or on a consolidated basis. For all investments, the auditee must list the name of the entity, ownership percentage, and the principal business in which the entity is engaged. For investments recorded on the cost basis, the auditee must include the original investment, advances, dividends declared or paid in the current and prior years and the net investment. For investments recorded on the equity or consolidated basis, the auditee must include the ownership percentage, original investment, advances, dividends declared or paid in the current and prior years, and current and prior years' earnings and losses, including accumulated losses in excess of the original investment.
