
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1773 - POLICY ON AUDITS OF RUS BORROWERS AND GRANTEES
##### Subpart D - RUS Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 1773.33 Report on compliance with aspects of contractual agreements and regulatory requirements.
####### https://www.rd.usda.gov/files/UPA_Bulletin_183-1.pdf

(iii) The requirement for an auditee to use depreciation rates that are within the ranges established by RUS for each primary plant account (See RUS Bulletin 183-1, Depreciation Rates and Procedures at), or with the requirements of the state regulatory body having jurisdiction over the auditee's depreciation rates in computing monthly accruals.

(2) For telecommunications auditees, provisions related to:

(i) The requirement for an auditee to obtain written approval of the mortgagees to enter into any contract, agreement or lease between the auditee and an affiliate other than as allowed under 7 CFR part 1744, subpart E; and

(ii) The requirement for an auditee to prepare and furnish mortgagees annual or periodic financial and operating reports on the auditee's financial condition and operations accurately and within the required deadlines. The auditor shall comment on whether, during the course of the audit, anything came to the auditor's attention to indicate that the information represented by the auditee as having been submitted to RUS in its most recent December 31 Operating Report for Telecommunications Borrowers was not in agreement with the auditee's audited records. If the auditee represents that an amended report has been filed as of December 31, the comments must be related to the amended report.

(3) For Broadband auditees, provisions relating to the requirement for an auditee to prepare and furnish mortgagee quarterly or periodic financial and operating reports on the auditee's financial condition and operations accurately and within the required deadlines. The auditor shall comment on whether, during the course of the audit, anything came to the auditor's attention to indicate that the information represented by the auditee as having been submitted to RUS in its most recent BCAS filing was not in agreement with the auditee's audited records. If the auditee represents that an amended report has been filed, the comments must be related to the amended report.

(4) For grantees, provisions related to:

(i) Recipients of Broadband Initiatives Program loans and grants, the requirement for the recipient to prepare and furnish RUS quarterly and annual financial and operating reports on the financial condition and operations of the auditee accurately and within the required deadlines. The auditor shall comment on whether, during the course of the audit, anything came to the auditor's attention to indicate that the information represented by the auditee as having been submitted to RUS in its most recent BCAS filing was not in agreement with the audited records of the auditee. If the auditee represents that an amended report has been filed, the comments must relate to the amended report. The auditor must state whether the Annual Compliance Certificate required by the RUS Security Agreement has been filed in a timely manner with RUS.

(ii) Recipients of all other grant programs within the electric and telecommunications programs, the requirements to prepare and furnish RUS with any required financial reporting accurately and within required deadlines, as appropriate for that specific program. The auditor shall comment on whether, during the course of the audit, anything came to the auditor's attention to indicate that the information represented by the grantee as having been submitted to RUS in its most recent filing was not in agreement with the audited records of the grantee. If the grantee represents that an amended report has been filed, the comments must relate to the amended report.
