
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1774 - SPECIAL EVALUATION ASSISTANCE FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES AND HOUSEHOLDS PROGRAM (SEARCH)
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1774.8 Other Federal Statutes.

Other Federal statutes and regulations are applicable to grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:

(a) 7 CFR part 1, subpart A-USDA implementation of Freedom of Information Act.

(b) 7 CFR part 3-USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-129 regarding debt collection.

(c) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A-USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.

(d) 7 CFR part 1970.

(e) 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E-Civil Rights Compliance Requirements.

(f) 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal.

(g) 2 CFR part 415-General Program Administrative Requirements.

(h) 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension, implementation of Executive Order 12549 on debarment and suspension.

(i) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying, prohibiting the use of appropriated funds to influence Congress or a Federal agency in connection with the making of any Federal grant and other Federal contracting and financial transactions.

(j) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance), implementing the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C 8102).

(k) 7 CFR part 15b, USDA implementation of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs.
