
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1775 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1775.5 Limitations.

Grant funds may not be used to:

(a) Duplicate current services or replace or substitute support normally provided by other means, such as those performed by an association's consultant in developing a project, including feasibility, design, and cost estimates.

(b) Fund political or lobbying activities.

(c) Purchase real estate or vehicles, improve or renovate office space, or repair and maintain privately owned property.

(d) Pay the costs for construction, improvement, rehabilitation, modification, or operation and maintenance of water, wastewater, and solid waste disposal facilities.

(e) Construct or furnish a building.

(f) Intervene in the Federal regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings.

(g) Sue the Federal Government or any other government entities.

(h) Pay for any other costs that are not allowable under 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(i) Make contributions or donations to others.

(j) Fund projects that duplicate technical assistance given to implement action plans under the National Forest-Dependent Rural Communities Economic Diversification Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6613). Applicants cannot receive both grants made under this part and grants that the Forest Service makes to implement the action plans for five continuous years from the date of grant approval by the Forest Service.

(1) The Forest Service helps rural communities that are dependent upon national forest resources diversify existing industries and economies. It establishes rural forestry and economic diversification action teams that prepare technical assistance plans for these rural communities to expand their local economies and reduce their dependence on national forest resources. The Forest Service provides assistance to implement the action plans through grants, loans, cooperative agreements, or contracts.

(2) To avoid duplicate assistance, applicants must contact the Forest Service to find out if any geographical areas or local areas in a State have received grants for technical assistance to an economically disadvantaged community. These areas are defined as national forest-dependent communities under 7 U.S.C. 6612. Applicants will provide documentation to the Forest Service and Rural Utilities Service that they have contacted each agency.

(k) To pay an outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded. An applicant will be ineligible to receive a loan or grant until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied.

(l) Recruit applications for the RUS's water and waste loan or any other loan or grant program. Grant funds cannot be used to create new business; however, they can be used to assist with application preparation.
