
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1775 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1775.8 Other Federal statutes.

Other Federal statutes and regulations are applicable to grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:

(a) 7 CFR part 1, subpart A-USDA implementation of Freedom of Information Act.

(b) 7 CFR part 3-USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-129 regarding debt collection.

(c) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A-USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.

(d) 7 CFR part 1970.

(e) 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E-Civil Rights Compliance Requirements.

(f) 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal.

(g) 2 CFR part 415-General Program Administrative Requirements.

(h) 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension, implementing Executive Order 12549 on debarment and suspension.

(i) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying, prohibiting the use of appropriated funds to influence Congress or a Federal agency in connection with the making of any Federal grant and other Federal contracting and financial transactions.

(j) 2 CFR 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance), implementing the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C 701).

(k) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F-Audit Requirements.

(l) 29 U.S.C. 794, section 504-Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute), prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs.
