
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1775 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Grant Application Processing
###### ยง 1775.10 Applications.
####### Supporting information.

(d)All applications shall be accompanied by:

(1) Evidence of applicant's legal existence and authority in the form of:

(i) Certified copies of current authorizing and organizational documents for new applicants or former grantees where changes were made since the last legal opinion was obtained in conjunction with receipt of an RUS grant, or, certification that no changes have been made in authorizing or organizing documents since receipt of last RUS grant by applicant.

(ii) Current annual corporation report, Certificate of Good Standing, or statement they are not required.

(iii) For public nonprofits, Certificate of Continued Status from local attorney (if applicable).

(iv) Certified list of directors/officers with their respective terms.

(2) Evidence of tax exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), if applicable.

(3) Narrative of applicant's experience in providing services similar to those proposed. Provide brief description of successfully completed projects including the need that was identified and objectives accomplished.

(4) Latest financial information to show the applicant's financial capacity to carry out the proposed work. A current audit report is preferred, however applicants can submit a balance sheet and an income statement in lieu of an audit report.

(5) List of proposed services to be provided.

(6) Estimated breakdown of costs (direct and indirect) including those to be funded by grantee as well as other sources. Sufficient detail should be provided to permit the approval official to determine reasonableness, applicability, and allowability.

(7) Evidence that a Financial Management System is in place or proposed.

(8) Documentation on each of the priority ranking criteria listed in ยง 1775.11 as follows:

(i) List of the associations to be served and the State or States where assistance will be provided. Identify associations by name, or other characteristics such as size, income, location, and provide MHI and population.

(ii) Description of the type of technical assistance and/or training to be provided and the tasks to be contracted.

(iii) Description of how the project will be evaluated and provide clearly stated goals and the method proposed to measure the results that will be obtained.

(iv) Documentation of need for proposed service. Provide detailed explanation of how the proposed services differ from other similar services being provided in the same area.

(v) Personnel on staff or to be contracted to provide the service and their experience with similar projects.

(vi) Statement indicating the number of months it takes to complete the project or service.

(vii) Documentation on cost effectiveness of project. Provide the cost per association to be served or proposed cost of personnel to provide assistance.

(viii) Other factors for consideration, such as emergency situation, training need identified, health or safety problems, geographic distribution, Rural Development Office recommendations, etc.
