
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1775 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Grant Application Processing
###### ยง 1775.11 Priority.

The application and supporting information will be used to determine the applicant's priority for available funds. All applications will be reviewed and scored for funding priority in accordance with RUS Guide 1775-2. Points will be given only for factors that are well documented in the application package and, in the opinion of the RUS, meet the objective outlined under each factor. The following is a listing of the criteria that will be used to select the applications that meet the objectives of the technical assistance program.

(a) Projects proposing to give priority for available services to rural communities having a population less than 5,500 and/or below 2,500.

(b) Projects proposing to give priority for available services to low income communities.

(c) Projects that will provide assistance in a multi-State area.

(d) Points will be awarded for work plans that clearly describe the goals and objectives of the project, how they will be accomplished in targeted communities, and what measurement of accomplishment will be used.

(e) Projects containing needs assessment (i.e. actual issue or problem being addressed) clearly defined and supported by data.

(f) Projects containing evaluation methods that are specific to the activity, clearly defined, measurable, and with projected outcomes.

(g) Applicants proposing to use at least 75 percent of the total grant amount for their own staff, or the staff of an affiliated organization to provide services for a project instead of contracting with an outside organization for the services.

(h) Projects providing technical assistance/training that accomplish the objective within a 12-month or less timeframe.
