
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1775 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Grant Application Processing
###### ยง 1775.20 Reporting.

(a) Grantees shall constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met, projected work by time periods is being accomplished, and other performance objectives are being achieved.

(b) SF-425," Federal Financial Report," and a project performance activity report will be required of all grantees on a quarterly basis, due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter.

(c) A final project performance report will be required with the last SF-425 due 90 days after the end of the last quarter in which the project is completed. The final report may serve as the last quarterly report.

(d) All multi-State grantees are to submit an original of each report to the National Office. Grantees serving only one State are to submit an original of each report to the State Office. The project performance reports should detail, preferably in a narrative format, activities that have transpired for the specific time period and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period (i.e. number of meetings held, number of people contacted, results of activity);

(2) Analysis of challenges or setbacks that occurred during the grant period;

(3) Copies of fliers, news releases, news articles, announcements and other information used to promote services or projects;

(4) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will affect attainment of overall project objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation; and

(5) Activities planned for the next reporting period.
