
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1776 - RURAL DECENTRALIZED WATER SYSTEMS
##### Subpart C - DWS Loans
###### ยง 1776.17 Revolving loan fund maintenance.

As long as any part of the DWS grant remains available for lending, and loans made from the revolving loan fund have an outstanding balance due, the grant recipient must maintain the revolving loan fund for the purposes set forth in ยง 1776.13.

(a) All DWS grant funds received by a grant recipient must be deposited into the revolving loan fund.

(b) The grant recipient may transfer additional assets into the revolving loan fund.

(c) All cash and other assets of the revolving loan fund shall be deposited in a separate bank account or accounts.

(d) No cash or other assets of any other fund maintained by the grant recipient shall be commingled with the cash and other assets of the revolving loan fund.

(e) All moneys deposited in such bank account or accounts shall be money of the revolving loan fund.

(f) Loans to loan recipients are advanced from the revolving loan fund.

(g) The revolving loan fund will consist of receivables created by making loans, the grant recipient's security interest in collateral pledged by loan recipients, collections on the receivables, interest, fees, and any other income or assets derived from the operation of the revolving loan fund.

(h) The portion of the revolving loan fund that consists of DWS grant funds, on a last-in-first-out basis, may be used for only those purposes set forth in this part.

(i) The grant recipient must submit an annual budget of proposed administrative costs for RUS approval. The amount removed from the revolving loan fund for administrative costs in any year must be reasonable; must not exceed the actual cost of operating the revolving loan fund, including loan servicing and providing technical assistance; and must not exceed the amount approved by RUS in the grant recipient's annual budget.

(j) A reasonable amount of revolved funds must be used to create a reserve for bad debts. Reserves should be accumulated over a period of years. The total amount should not exceed maximum expected losses, considering the quality of the grant recipient's portfolio of loans. Unless the grant recipient provides loss and delinquency records that, in the opinion of RUS, justifies different amounts, a reserve for bad debts of 6 percent of outstanding loans must be accumulated over three years and then maintained as set forth in the grant agreement.

(k) Any cash in the revolving loan fund from any source that is not needed for debt service, approved administrative costs, or reasonable reserves must be available for additional loans to loan recipients.

(l) All reserves and other cash in the revolving loan fund not immediately needed for loans to loan recipients or other authorized uses must be deposited in accounts in banks or other financial institutions. Such accounts must be fully covered by Federal deposit insurance or fully collateralized with U.S. Government obligations, and must be interest bearing. Any interest earned thereon remains a part of the revolving loan fund.
