
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1778 - EMERGENCY AND IMMINENT COMMUNITY WATER ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### ยง 1778.1 General.

(a) This part outlines policies and procedures for making Emergency Community Water Assistance Grants (ECWAG) authorized under Section 306A of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)), as amended. Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this part involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this title. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with an Agency employee.

(b) Agency officials will maintain liaison with officials of other Federal, State, regional and local development agencies to coordinate related programs to achieve rural development objectives.

(c) Agency officials shall cooperate with appropriate State agencies in making grants that support State strategies for rural area development.

(d) Funds allocated for use in accordance with this part are also to be considered for use by Indian tribes within the State regardless of whether State development strategies include Indian reservations within the State's boundaries. Indians residing on such reservations must have an equal opportunity along with other rural residents to participate in the benefits of this program. This includes equal application of outreach activities of Field Offices.

(e) Federal statutes provide for extending the Agency financial programs without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, age, or physical/mental handicap (provided the participant possesses the capacity to enter into legal contracts).
