
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1778 - EMERGENCY AND IMMINENT COMMUNITY WATER ASSISTANCE GRANTS
##### ยง 1778.10 Restrictions on use of grant funds.

(a) Grant funds may not be used to:

(1) Assist any city or town with a population in excess of 10,000 inhabitants. The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census. If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data. Facilities financed by RUS may be located in non-rural areas. However, loan and grant funds may be used to finance only that portion of the facility serving rural areas, regardless of facility location.

(2) Assist a rural area that has a median household income in excess of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income as determined by 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median household income of the rural area, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.

(3) Finance facilities which are not modest in size, design, cost, and are not directly related to correcting the potable water quantity or quality problem.

(4) Pay loan or grant finder's fees.

(5) Pay any annual recurring costs that are considered to be operational expenses.

(6) Pay rental for the use of equipment or machinery owned by the rural community.

(7) Purchase existing systems.

(8) Refinance existing indebtedness, except for short-term debt incurred in accordance with ยง 1778.9(h).

(9) Make reimbursement for projects developed with other grant funds.

(10) Finance facilities that are not for public use.

(b) Nothing in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall preclude rural areas from submitting joint proposals for assistance under this part. Each entity applying for financial assistance under this part to fund their share of a joint project will be considered individually.
