
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart A - General Policies and Requirements
###### ยง 1780.14 Security.
####### Joint financing security.

(c)For projects utilizing joint financing, when adequate security of more than one type is available, the other lender may take one type of security with RUS taking another type. For projects utilizing joint financing with the same security to be shared by RUS and another lender, RUS will obtain at least a parity position with the other lender. A parity position is to ensure that with joint security, in the event of default, each lender will be affected on a proportionate basis. A parity position will conform with the following unless an exception is granted by the approval official:

(1) It is not necessary for loans to have the same repayment terms. Loans made by other lenders involved in joint financing with RUS should be scheduled for repayment on terms similar to those customarily used in the State for financing such facilities.

(2) The use of a trustee or other similar paying agent by the other lender in a joint financing arrangement is acceptable to RUS. A trustee or other similar paying agent will not normally be used for the RUS portion of the funding unless required to comply with State law. The responsibilities and authorities of any trustee or other similar paying agent on projects that include RUS funds must be clearly specified by written agreement and approved by the State program official and the Office of the General Counsel (OGC). RUS must be able to deal directly with the borrower to enforce the provisions of loan and grant agreements and perform necessary servicing actions.

(3) In the event adequate funds are not available to meet regular installments on parity loans, the funds available will be apportioned to the lenders based on the respective current installments of principal and interest due.

(4) Funds obtained from the sale or liquidation of secured property or fixed assets will be apportioned to the lenders on the basis of the pro rata amount outstanding; provided, however, funds obtained from such sale or liquidation for a project that included RUS grant funds will be apportioned as required by the grant agreement.

(5) Protective advances must be charged to the borrower's account and be secured by a lien on the security property. To the extent consistent with State law and customary lending practices in the area, repayment of protective advances made by either lender, for the mutual protection of both lenders, should receive first priority in apportionment of funds between the lenders. To ensure agreement between lenders, efforts should be made to obtain the concurrence of both lenders before one lender makes a protective advance.
