
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart A - General Policies and Requirements
###### ยง 1780.13 Rates and terms.
####### Repayment terms.

(e)The loan repayment period shall not exceed the useful life of the facility, State statute or 40 years from the date of the note or bond, whichever is less. Where RUS grant funds are used in connection with an RUS loan, the loan will be for the maximum term permitted by this part, State statute, or the useful life of the facility, whichever is less, unless there is an exceptional case where circumstances justify making an RUS loan for less than the maximum term permitted. In such cases, the reasons must be fully documented.

(1) Principal payments may be deferred in whole or in part for a period not to exceed 36 months following the date the first interest installment is due. If for any reason it appears necessary to permit a longer period of deferment, the Agency may authorize such deferment. Deferments of principal will not be used to:

(i) Postpone the levying of taxes or assessments;

(ii) Delay collection of the full rates which the borrower has agreed to charge users for its services as soon as those services become available;

(iii) Create reserves for normal operation and maintenance;

(iv) Make any capital improvements except those approved by the Agency which are determined to be essential to the repayment of the loan or to maintain adequate security; and

(v) Make payment on other debt.
