
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart A - General Policies and Requirements
###### ยง 1780.18 Allocation of program funds.
####### Transition formula.

(4)(i) A formula based on a proportional amount of previous year allocation used to maintain program continuity by preventing large fluctuations in individual State allocations. The transition formula limits allocation shifts to any particular State in the event of changes from year to year of the basic formula, the basic criteria, or the weights given the criteria. The transition formula first checks whether the current year's basic formula allocation is within the transition range (plus or minus 20 percentage points of the proportional amount of the previous year's BFA). The formula follows:

(ii) If the current year's State BFA is not within the transition range in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the State formula allocation is changed to the amount of the transition range limit closest to the BFA amount. After having performed this transition adjustment for each State, the sum of the funds allocated to all States will differ from the amount of funds available for BFA. This difference, whether a positive or negative amount, is distributed to all States receiving a formula allocation by multiplying the difference by the SF. The end result is the transition formula allocation. The transition range will not exceed 40% (plus or minus 20%), but when a smaller range is used it will be stated in the individual program section.
