
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart A - General Policies and Requirements
###### ยง 1780.18 Allocation of program funds.
####### Basic formula criteria, data source and weight.

(2)See paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(i) The criteria used in the basic formula are:

(A) State's percentage of national rural population will be 50 percent.

(B) State's percentage of national rural population with incomes below the poverty level will be 25 percent.

(C) State's percentage of national nonmetropolitan unemployment will be 25 percent.

(ii) The data sources for each criterion identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Each criterion is assigned a specific weight according to its relevance in determining need. The percentage representing each criterion is multiplied by the weight factor and summed to arrive at a State factor (SF). The SF cannot exceed 0.05, as follows:

(A) For the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the most recent decennial Census data.

(B) For the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data.

(C) For the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the most recent Bureau of Labor Statistics data.
