
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart A - General Policies and Requirements
###### ยง 1780.19 Public information.
####### General public meeting.

(b)Applicants should inform the general public regarding the development of any proposed project. Any applicant not required to obtain authorization by vote of its membership or by public referendum, to incur the obligations of the proposed loan or grant, must hold at least one public information meeting. The public meeting must be held not later than loan or grant approval. The meeting must give the citizenry an opportunity to become acquainted with the proposed project and to comment on such items as economic and environmental impacts, service area, alternatives to the project, or any other issue identified by Agency. To the extent possible, this meeting should cover items necessary to satisfy all public information meeting requirements for the proposed project. To minimize duplication of public notices and public involvement, the applicant shall, where possible, coordinate and integrate the public involvement activities of the environmental review process into this requirement. The applicant will be required, at least 10 days prior to the meeting, to publish a notice of the meeting in a newspaper of general circulation in the service area, to post a public notice at the applicant's principal office, and to notify the Agency. The applicant will provide the Agency a copy of the published notice and minutes of the public meeting. A public meeting is not normally required for subsequent loans or grants which are needed to complete the financing of a project.
