
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Loan and Grant Application Processing
###### ยง 1780.33 Application requirements.

An initial application consists of the following:

(a) One copy of a completed SF 424.2;

(b) A copy of the State intergovernmental comments or one copy of the filed application for State intergovernmental review; and

(c) Two copies of the preliminary engineering report (PER) for the project.

(1) The PER may be submitted to the processing office prior to the rest of the application material if the applicant desires a preliminary review.

(2) The processing office will forward one copy of the PER with comments and recommendations to the State staff engineer for review upon receipt from the applicant.

(3) The State staff engineer will consult with the applicant's engineer as appropriate to resolve any questions concerning the PER. Written comments will be provided by the State staff engineer to the processing office to meet eligibility determination time lines.

(d) Written certification that other credit is not available.

(e) Supporting documentation necessary to make an eligibility determination such as financial statements, audits, organizational documents, or existing debt instruments. The processing office will advise applicants regarding the required documents. Applicants that are indebted to RUS will not need to submit documents already on file with the processing office.
