
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Loan and Grant Application Processing
###### ยง 1780.33 Application requirements.
####### Environmental review requirements.

(f)The applicant must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(1) Upon receipt of the Environmental Report, the processing office shall forward one copy of the report with comments and recommendation to the State Environmental Coordinator for review.

(2) The State Environmental Coordinator will consult with the applicant as appropriate to resolve any environmental concerns. Written comments will be provided by the State Environmental Coordinator to the processing office to meet eligibility determination time lines.

(g) The applicant's Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The TIN will be used by the Agency to assign a case number which will be the applicant's or transferee's TIN preceded by State and County Code numbers. Only one case number will be assigned to each applicant regardless of the number of loans or grants or number of separate facilities, unless an exception is authorized by the National Office.

(h) Other Forms and certifications. Applicants will be required to submit the following items to the processing office, upon notification from the processing office to proceed with further development of the full application:

(1) Form RD 442-7, "Operating Budget";

(2) Form RD 1910-11, "Application Certification, Federal Collection Policies for Consumer or Commercial Debts";

(3) Form RD 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement";

(4) Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement";

(5) Form AD-1047, "Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension and other Responsibility Matters";

(6) Form AD-1049, Certification regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative I For Grantees Other Than Individuals;

(7) Certifications for Contracts, Grants, and Loans (Regarding Lobbying); and

(8) Certification regarding prohibited tying arrangements. Applicants that provide electric service must provide the Agency a certification that they will not require users of a water or waste facility financed under this part to accept electric service as a condition of receiving assistance.
