
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Loan and Grant Application Processing
###### ยง 1780.39 Application processing.
####### Insurance.

(g)The purpose of RUS's insurance requirements is to protect the government's financial interest based on the facility financed with loan funds. It is the responsibility of the applicant and not that of RUS to assure that adequate insurance and fidelity or employee dishonesty bond coverage is maintained. The requirements below apply to all types of coverage determined necessary. The approval official may grant exceptions to normal requirements when appropriate justification is provided establishing that it is in the best interest of the applicant and will not adversely affect the government's interest.

(1) Insurance requirements proposed by the applicant will be accepted if the processing office determines that proposed coverage is adequate to protect the government's financial interest. Applicants are encouraged to have their attorney, consulting engineer, and/or insurance provider(s) review proposed types and amounts of coverage, including any deductible provisions.

(2) The use of deductibles may be allowed by RUS providing the applicant has financial resources which would likely be adequate to cover potential claims requiring payment of the deductible.
