
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Loan and Grant Application Processing
###### ยง 1780.45 Loan and grant closing and delivery of funds.
####### Loan disbursement.

(b)(1) Multiple advances. Multiple advances will be used only for loans in excess of $100,000. Advances will be made only as needed to cover disbursements required by the borrower over a 30-day period.

(i) Subpart D of this part contains instructions for making multiple advances to public bodies.

(ii) Advances will be requested by the borrower in writing. The request should be in sufficient amounts to pay cost of construction, rights-of-way and land, legal, engineering, interest, and other expenses as needed. The borrower may use Form RD 440-11, "Estimate of Funds Needed for 30 Day Period Commencing XXX," to show the amount of funds needed during the 30-day period.

(2) RUS loan funds obligated for a specific purpose, such as the paying of interest, but not needed at the time of loan closing will remain in the Finance Office until needed unless State statutes require all funds to be delivered to the borrower at the time of closing. Loan funds may be advanced to prepay costs under ยง 1780.9 (e)(2)(iv). If all funds must be delivered to the borrower at the time of closing to comply with State statutes, funds not needed at loan closing will be handled as follows:

(i) Deposited in an appropriate borrower account, such as debt service or construction accounts; or

(ii) Deposited in a joint bank account under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
