
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Planning, Designing, Bidding, Contracting, Constructing and Inspections
###### ยง 1780.62 Utility purchase contracts.

Applicants proposing to purchase water or other utility service from private or public sources shall have written contracts for supply or service which are reviewed and concurred in by the Agency. To the extent practical, the Agency review and concurrence of such contracts should take place prior to their execution by the owner. OGC advice and guidance may be requested. Form RD 442-30, "Water Purchase Contract," may be used when appropriate. If the Agency loan will be repaid from system revenues, the contract will be pledged to the Agency as part of the security for the loan. Such contracts will:

(a) Include a commitment by the supplier to furnish, at a specified point, an adequate quantity of water or other service and provide that, in case of shortages, all of the supplier's users will proportionately share shortages.

(b) Set out the ownership and maintenance responsibilities of the respective parties including the master meter if a meter is installed at the point of delivery.

(c) Specify the initial rates and provide a type of escalator clause which will permit rates for the association to be raised or lowered proportionately as certain specified rates for the supplier's regular customers are raised or lowered. Provisions may be made for altering rates in accordance with the decisions of the appropriate State agency which may have regulatory authority.

(d) Cover period of time which is at least equal to the repayment period of the loan. State program officials may approve contracts for shorter periods of time if the supplier cannot legally contract for such period, or if the owner and supplier find it impossible or impractical to negotiate a contract for the maximum period permissible under State law, provided:

(1) The supplier is subject to regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other Federal or State agency whose jurisdiction can be expected to prevent unwarranted curtailment of supply; or

(2) The contract contains adequate provisions for renewal; or

(3) A determination is made that in the event the contract is terminated, there are or will be other adequate sources available to the owner that can feasibly be developed or purchased.

(e) Set out in detail the amount of connection or demand charges, if any, to be made by the supplier as a condition to making the service available to the owner. However, the payment of such charges from loan funds shall not be approved unless the Agency determines that it is more feasible and economical for the owner to pay such a connection charge than it is for the owner to provide the necessary supply by other means.

(f) Provide for a pledge of the contract to the Agency as part of the security for the loan.

(g) Not contain provisions for:

(1) Construction of facilities which will be owned by the supplier. This does not preclude the use of money paid as a connection charge for construction to be done by the supplier.

(2) Options for the future sale or transfer. This does not preclude an agreement recognizing that the supplier and owner may at some future date agree to a sale of all or a portion of the facility.

(h) If it is impossible to obtain a firm commitment for either an adequate quantity or sharing shortages proportionately, a contract may be executed and concurred in provided adequate evidence is furnished to enable the Agency to make a determination that the supplier has adequate supply and/or treatment facilities to furnish its other users and the applicant for the foreseeable future; and:

(1) The supplier is subject to regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other Federal or State agency whose jurisdiction can be expected to prevent unwarranted curtailment of supply; or

(2) A suitable alternative supply could be arranged within the repayment ability of the borrower if it should become necessary; or

(3) Concurrence in the proposed contract is obtained from the National Office.
