
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Planning, Designing, Bidding, Contracting, Constructing and Inspections
###### ยง 1780.70 Owner's procurement regulations.
####### Owner's review.

(c)Proposed procurement actions shall be reviewed by the owner's officials to avoid the purchase of unnecessary or duplicate items. Consideration should be given to consolidation or separation of procurement items to obtain a more economical purchase. Where appropriate, an analysis shall be made of lease versus purchase alternatives, and any other appropriate analysis to determine which approach would be the most economical. To foster greater economy and efficiency, owners are encouraged to enter into State and local intergovernmental agreements for procurement or use of common goods and services.

(d) Solicitation of offers, whether by competitive sealed bid or competitive negotiation, shall:

(1) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product or service to be procured. When it is impractical or uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements, a "brand name or equal" description may be used to define the performance or other salient requirements of a procurement. The specific feature of the name brands which must be met by the offeror shall be clearly stated; and

(2) Clearly specify all requirements which offerors must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.

(e) Affirmative steps should be taken to assure that small, minority, and women businesses are utilized when possible as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services.
