
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Planning, Designing, Bidding, Contracting, Constructing and Inspections
###### ยง 1780.76 Contract administration.
####### Changes in development plans.

(h)(1) Changes in development plans shall be reviewed and approved by the Agency provided:

(i) Funds are available to cover any additional costs; and

(ii) The change is for an authorized loan or grant purpose; and

(iii) It will not adversely affect the soundness of the facility operation or the Agency's security; and

(iv) The change is within the scope of the contract,

(2) Changes will be recorded on Form RD 1924-7, "Contract Change Order," or other similar form if approved by the State program official or designee. Regardless of the form, change orders must be approved by the State program official or designee.

(3) Changes should be accomplished only after Agency approval and shall be authorized only by means of contract change order. The change order will include items such as:

(i) Any changes in labor and material;

(ii) Changes in facility design;

(iii) Any decrease or increase in quantities based on final measurements that are different from those shown in the bidding schedule; and

(iv) Any increase or decrease in the time to complete the project.

(4) All changes shall be recorded on chronologically numbered contract change orders as they occur. Change orders will not be included in payment estimates until approved by all parties.
