
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1780 - WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Information Pertaining to Preparation of Notes or Bonds and Bond Transcript Documents for Public Body Applicants
###### ยง 1780.94 Minimum bond specifications.
####### Extra payments.

(f)Extra payments are derived from the sale of basic chattel or real estate security, refund of unused loan funds, cash proceeds of property insurance and similar actions which reduce the value of basic security. At the option of the borrower, regular facility revenue may also be used as extra payments when regular payments are current. Unless otherwise established in the note or bond, extra payments will be applied as follows:

(1) For loans with amortized debt instruments, extra payments will be applied first to interest accrued to the date of receipt of the payment and second to principal.

(2) For loans with debt instruments with P&I installments, the extra payment will be applied to the final unpaid principal installment.

(3) For borrowers with more than one loan, the extra payment will be applied to the account secured by the lowest priority of lien on the property from which the extra payments was obtained. Any balance will be applied to other Agency loans secured by the property from which the extra payment was obtained.

(4) For assessment bonds, see paragraph (k) of this section.

(g) The place of payments on bonds purchased by the Agency will be determined by the Agency.
