
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1781 - RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (RCD) LOANS AND WATERSHED (WS) LOANS AND ADVANCES
##### ยง 1781.5 Eligibility.

To be eligible for a WS loan, WS advance, or an RCD loan, the sponsoring local organization must meet the following requirements as applicable. Questions on eligibility will be referred to the Regional Attorney, OGC for legal advise prior to development of a loan docket.

(a) Be named in the WS or RCD plan as a sponsor of the development to be financed.

(b) Be legally organized and established in the WS or RCD area with legal authority, responsibility and capability to develop and operate the facility for which assistance is requested.

(c) Have authority under and comply with Federal, State and local laws on such matters as:

(1) Organizing, installing, operating, and maintaining proposed WS works of improvement or RCD measures or projects.

(2) Borrowing money, giving security, levying taxes, making assessments or raising revenues for operation and maintenance of the facility and repayment of loans.

(3) Land use zoning.

(4) Acquiring necessary property, lands, and rights.

(5) Obtaining approval of construction plans and specifications by appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies and construction facilities.

(6) Health and sanitation standards, water pollution control, and environmental regulations.

(7) Design and installation standards.

(8) Public service commission or similar State public body rules and regulations.

(d) Be financially sound and capable of providing service essential to the rural development needs of the area.

(e) If it is a nonprofit corporation.

(1) Membership should be broadly based and representative of the area benefiting from the facility. Membership on the governing board of the corporation will be limited to those living in the area to be benefited unless for justifiable reasons the Rural Development State Director gives prior approval for other than local residents to serve on the board of directors.

(2) The corporation must propose a facility which will primarily serve or generate other substantial, tangible benefits for farmers and other residents of the area. In the case of a recreational development at least two-thirds of the membership must be farmers and other residing in the area.

(3) Nonprofit corporations will not be formed to serve an area which could be served by a public agency which has adequate authority to provide the needed service unless prior approval of the National Office is obtained.
