
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1781 - RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (RCD) LOANS AND WATERSHED (WS) LOANS AND ADVANCES
##### ยง 1781.6 Loan purposes.
###### Forestry equipment and services.

(ii)Purchase or rent basic special-purpose equipment, facilities, certain land or land rights, and supplies needed for furnishing services for the establishment, improvement, protection, and harvesting of timber (not processing) suitable for lumber, pulp, poles or posts; providing that the forest program and forest practices benefiting from such services are in accordance with approved conservation practices for the development, use, and control of water resources on farms and in forests. Special-purpose equipment may include such items as tractors, bull dozers, plows, planters, trucks, loaders, fire-fighting equipment, and sprayers. Facilities may include such items as ponds and reservoirs, pipelines, buildings for storage of equipment and supplies, nurseries, access roads, fire lanes, and lookout towers. Supplies may include such things as seed, seedlings, fertilizers, fencing, and pesticides. Land or land-rights acquisition will be limited to that necessary for sites for facilities listed above which are directly related to the forestry program. Loans for these purposes may be made only when the equipment, supplies, and facilities to be provided:

(A) Are not readily available when needed.

(B) Will be justified by local need and demand.

(C) Will be available to users at rates sufficient to cover loan amortization, obsolescence, replacement, operation, and cost of supplies.

(D) Will more efficiently serve the group through cooperative effort.

(12) Refinancing debt obligations of the sponsoring local organization that were incurred before application for a WS or RCD loan when that is not the primary purpose of the loan and:

(i) The debt being refinanced was for works of improvement or measures for which loan funds could be used; and

(ii) The debt is a valid obligation of the sponsor; and

(iii) Creditors will not modify payment terms on existing debts, and the organization cannot pay existing debts and a loan from RUS over the same period of time; and

(iv) Long-term debts will not be refinanced unless necessary to provide a sound basis for the loan or WS advance and concurrence is obtained from the National Office.

(13) If repayment is based on revenues, loan funds (not WS advances) can be used for payment of interest installments until the facility is generating enough revenue to make accrued interest payments. Loan funds for interest payments will not exceed the estimated amount that will accrue to the end of the third full calendar year after loan closing without prior approval from the National Office.

(14) Relocation payment to displaced persons, businesses, and farm operations and for relocation assistance advisory services in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894), the Regulations issued by the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act (7 CFR part 21), and the Memorandum of Understanding Between NRCS and RUS.

(15) Services of engineers, architects, attorneys, auditors, construction foremen, managers, clerks, and others for organizing, planning, surveying, supervising, analyzing, developing, operating, managing, and accounting for activities related to loan processing and closing and development for which the loan is made.

(16) Buildings, fences, roads, utilities, facilities, and relocation:

(i) To construct buildings of modest design essential for the operation and maintenance of the works of improvement or measure.

(ii) To provide support facilities and utilities such as gas, electricity, water, sewer, and waste disposal.

(iii) To build or relocate roads, bridges, utilities, fences, and other improvements when necessary to acquire rights-of-ways or to construct or operate the facility.

(17) Services and fees. To pay costs for services for any purposes listed under this section such as:

(i) Fees or other legal expenses for establishing a water right through appropriation, agreement, permit, or court decree.

(ii) Purchase of water stock or membership in an incorporated water users' association to acquire a water supply.

(iii) Costs of labor, technical or professional services, and fees to be incurred in obtaining the loan and in planning and completing the facilities or services to be financed with loan funds.

(iv) Services such as those listed in paragraph (a)(16) of this section.
