
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1781 - RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (RCD) LOANS AND WATERSHED (WS) LOANS AND ADVANCES
##### ยง 1781.6 Loan purposes.
###### Soil and water management for agriculture-related pollutant control.

(8)Measures to reduce agriculture-related pollutants that adversely affect the community and the general public. Measures may include, but are not limited to, holding ponds, debris basins, diversions, terraces, and community distribution systems.

(9) Acquiring fee simple title to lands or perpetual easements, or rights-of-way for sites for works of improvement or project measures and related costs for removal, relocation, or replacement of existing improvements including relocation payments for displaced persons, business enterprises and facilities, and other related purposes. Funds for land acquisition will be limited to costs necessary for WS works of improvement or RCD measures. Final construction plans will indicate minimum essential lands and rights-of-way to be acquired. In some cases, sponsoring local organizations may need to acquire lands in excess of actual needs when it is expedient for planned development. If the Rural Development State Director determines that the acquisition of excess land is necessary or expedient for the orderly development of a WS works of improvement, or RCD measure, he may authorize the action subject to the following conditions:

(i) The applicant must agree to sell excess land as soon as practicable and apply the proceeds, together with any income from excess land, on the debt to RUS.

(ii) The applicant must furnish legal evidence of authority to acquire additional land and dispose of it as agreed.

(iii) Evidence must be provided to justify acquisition of additional land.

(iv) Easements for land or water resource protection structures must be perpetual and must not include clauses that terminate the easement with the dissolution or abandonment of the applicant organization. Loan funds will not be used for an easement that deviates in any way from that provided in the standard NRCS form unless modifications of it are approved by both NRCS and RUS.

(10) Acquisition of water supply or water right by purchase or by appropriation under local, State, and Federal laws. The loan may include funds for the purchase of land on which the water supply or water right is presently being used when:

(i) The water supply or water right cannot be purchased without the land; and

(ii) The value of the land is not the major portion of the cost; and

(iii) Any excess land thus acquired will be sold as soon as possible and the proceeds applied on the loan.

(11) Purchase of equipment and machinery necessary for development and operation of planned WS works of improvement or RCD measures or projects including:
