
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1781 - RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (RCD) LOANS AND WATERSHED (WS) LOANS AND ADVANCES
##### ยง 1781.12 Preapplication and application processing.
###### Applications.

(2)(i) The application includes applicable forms and information indicated in RUS Instruction 1780. When the Rural Development State Director determines that an application will be further processed and Form AD-622 is delivered, he will designate a community program specialist (field), or a member of the community program staff to assist the processing office and the applicant with assembling and processing the application.

(ii) The processing office should arrange needed conferences with the applicant and its legal and engineering consultants, and when necessary, arrange for review of other Rural Development officials, and provide bulletins, forms, instructions and other assistance with assembling and processing the application. A processing checklist and time schedule will be established by using Form RD 1942-40, "Processing Check List (Public Bodies)," or Form RD 1942-39, "Processing Check List (Other than Public Bodies)." The processing office will send a letter and a copy of the processing checklist to the applicant to confirm decisions reached at the conference. The original and a copy of the processing checklist will be kept in the processing office and will be posted current as application processing actions are taken. The copy will be circulated from the processing office to the State Office for use in updating copies of the forms retained, after which it will be returned from the State Office to the processing office.
