
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1781 - RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (RCD) LOANS AND WATERSHED (WS) LOANS AND ADVANCES
##### ยง 1781.14 Planning, options, and appraisals.

(a) WS and RCD area plans are developed by sponsoring local agencies and organizations with technical assistance from NRCS and other Federal and State agencies. These plans include WS works of improvement and RCD measures to be developed or constructed for which NRCS construction funds may be made available on a cost share basis along with funds provided by the sponsoring local organization, a portion or all of which may be obtained by a WS loan and/or WS advance or a RCD loan.

(b) Current information on the availability of cost share funds and purposes for which they may be used is provided by NRCS. The amount of NRCS cost share funds and the amount of funds to be provided by the sponsoring local organizations will be indicated in each plan. The estimated amount of WS loan, WS advance or RCD loan anticipated by the sponsoring local organization should also be included.

(c) Plans for the development or construction of individual WS works of improvement and RCD measures will normally be developed with NRCS technical assistance. In every case they will be approved by both the NRCS State conservationist and the Rural Development State Director or their designated agent when a WS loan, WS advance or RCD loan is made.

(d) Options and appraisals related to the purchase of real estate for which a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan is made must be developed in accordance with NRCS and RUS requirements and approved by RUS. The determination of present market value will be made in accordance with ยง 1780.44(g) of this chapter.
