
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1781 - RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (RCD) LOANS AND WATERSHED (WS) LOANS AND ADVANCES
##### ยง 1781.20 Disbursement of WS and RCD loan funds and WS advance funds.

(a) WS and RCD loan funds will be disbursed by the processing office in accordance with the applicable provisions of ยง 1780.45 of this chapter and RUS Bulletin 1781-1, paragraph (5). Funds will be made available to the borrower as needed for payment of development or other costs for which the loan is made. The processing office must determine that the payment is for an authorized purpose and is for benefits accrued to the borrower. This will require evidence from NRCS in accordance with the applicable provisions of RUS Bulletin 1781-1, "Memorandum of Understanding Between RUS and NRCS."

(b) WS advance funds may be disbursed in the same manner as WS loan funds if such funds are transferred to RUS by NRCS for disbursement or they may be disbursed by NRCS. When WS advance funds are disbursed by NRCS, payments from advance of funds will be reported to the Rural Development State Director each month to be reported to the Finance Office and charged to the borrower's account. This action will be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of RUS Bulletin 1781-1 or RUS Bulletin 1781-2 and agreement between the NRCS State Conservationist and Rural Development State Director as follows:

(1) When a future water supply is being developed with NRCS, WS advance funds, the NRCS State Conservationist will send the Rural Development State Director a monthly report of funds disbursed. This will include three (3) copies of Form NRCS-AS-49a and 49b, "Contract Payment Estimate and Construction Progress Report," along with a transmittal Memorandum showing the sequential number (first, second, third, etc.) of the payment, the amount and date of payment, the check number by which the payment was made and the cumulative amount of advance funds disbursed to date. When the works of improvement, for which WS advance funds are used is completed the final report will, in addition to the above, show the date that construction was completed and the total amount of WS advance funds used.

(2) WS advances for construction costs will be set out each month on Form NRCS-49a. The Rural Development State Director should make arrangements with the NRCS State Conservationist to be supplied each month with a copy of Form NRCS 49a when advance funds are included together with an official statement from the NRCS State Administrative Officer giving the date of the check and the exact amount of each advance of funds made under the advance provisions of the project agreement or of any engineering services agreement or other supplementary agreement which further implements the proposal for the advance in the project agreement. The original will be sent immediately to the Finance Office and a copy provided for the processing office file.

(3) When WS advance funds are used to acquire property for site preservation the same reporting procedure as for a future water supply will be used except that Form NRCS-AS-49a and 49b if used, should be adopted to indicate fund use. As payments are made on land on which a mortgage or other security instrument is required, such instruments will be executed in accordance with instructions from the Regional Attorney, OGC.

(4) The Rural Development State Director must send the bond or note evidencing WS advance indebtedness of the borrower to the Finance Office along with reports of payments from advance funds disbursed by NRCS. A copy of the bond or note and copy of each report of payment will be sent to the processing office.
