
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1783 - REVOLVING FUNDS FOR FINANCING WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECTS (REVOLVING FUND PROGRAM)
##### Subpart B - Revolving Loan Program Grants
###### ยง 1783.9 What are the criteria for scoring applications?

(a) Applications that are incomplete or ineligible will be returned to the applicant, accompanied by a statement explaining why the application is being returned.

(b) Promptly after an application period closes, all applications that are complete and eligible will be ranked competitively based on the following scoring criteria:

(1) Degree of expertise and successful experience in making and servicing commercial loans, with a successful record, for the following number of full years:

(i) At least 1 but less than 3 years-5 points

(ii) At least 3 but less than 5 years-10 points

(iii) At least 5 but less than 10 years-20 points

(iv) 10 or more years-30 points

(2) Extent to which the work plan demonstrates a well thought out, comprehensive approach to accomplishing the objectives of this part, clearly defines who will be served by the project, clearly articulates the problem/issues to be addressed, identifies the service area to be covered by the RFP loans, and appears likely to be sustainable. Up to 40 points.

(3) Percentage of applicant contributions. Points allowed under this paragraph will be based on written evidence of the availability of funds from sources other than the proceeds of an RFP grant to pay part of the cost of a loan recipient's project. In-kind contributions will not be considered. Funds from other sources as a percentage of the RFP grant and points corresponding to such percentages are as follows:

(i) Less than 20%-ineligible

(ii) At least 20% but less than 50%-10 points

(iii) 50% or more-20 points

(4) Extent to which the goals and objectives are clearly defined, tied to the work plan, and are measurable. Up to 15 points.

(5) Lowest ratio of projected administrative expenses to loans advanced. Up to 10 points.

(6) The evaluation methods for considering loan applications and making RFP loans are specific to the program, clearly defined, measurable, and are consistent with program outcomes. Up to 20 points.

(7) Administrator's discretion, considering such factors as creative outreach ideas for marketing RFP loans to rural residents; the amount of funds requested in relation to the amount of needs demonstrated in the work plan; previous experiences demonstrating excellent utilization of a revolving loan fund grant; and optimizing the use of agency resources. Up to 10 points.

(c) All qualifying applications under this part will be scored based on the criteria contained in this section. Awards will be made based on the highest ranking applications and the amount of financial assistance available for RFP grants. All applicants will be notified of the results in writing on form AD-622.
