
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1786 - PREPAYMENT OF RUS GUARANTEED AND INSURED LOANS TO ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Prepayment of RUS Guaranteed Federal Financing Bank Loans Pursuant to Section 306(A) of the RE Act
###### ยง 1786.32 Settlement procedure.
####### Documentation.

(e)The borrower shall deliver, or cause to be delivered to RUS and FFB, not less than 3 business days prior to the settlement date, written notice of the settlement date and a complete listing of each FFB loan advance to be prepaid or partially prepaid, in the format required by ยง 1786.31(a)(2). In the event that a private loan is used in connection with the prepayment, the following executed documents, opinions and material shall be delivered at the settlement:

(1) The guaranteed note evidencing the private loan.

(2) The guarantee.

(3) The loan guarantee agreement.

(4) Copy of the private loan agreement between the lender and the borrower.

(5) Evidence that the borrower has received all approvals which are required under Federal or state law, loan agreements, security agreements, existing financing arrangements, or any other agreement to which the borrower is a party.

(6) An amendment in recordable form revising the description of the obligations secured by the mortgage including the obligation of the borrower to reimburse RUS for any amounts that RUS may pay under the guarantee.

(7) An approving opinion of the borrower's legal counsel to the effect that the guaranteed note evidencing the private loan is a valid and legally binding obligation of the borrower which is secured under the mortgage, and the priority of the mortgage, as amended pursuant to paragraph (e)(6) of this section, remains undisturbed.

(8) An approving opinion of the lender's legal counsel to the effect that the loan guarantee agreement is a valid and legally binding obligation of the lender.

(9) Such other opinions of counsel as may be required by the Administrator.

(10) Copies of any other documentation required by the lender.

(11) Copies of any other documentation required by RUS to ensure that the obligations of the borrower to reimburse RUS for any amounts that RUS pays under the guarantee or may advance in connection with the private loan are adequately secured under the mortgage.
