
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1786 - PREPAYMENT OF RUS GUARANTEED AND INSURED LOANS TO ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BORROWERS
##### Subpart C - Special Discounted Prepayments on RUS Direct/Insured Loans
###### ยง 1786.54 Eligibility criteria.

To be eligible to prepay RUS Notes at the Discounted Present Value a borrower must comply with the following criteria:

(a) The borrower must be current on all payments due on its outstanding RUS Notes and all other payment obligations owed to RUS and the Rural Telephone Bank.

(b) The borrower must agree to prepay all of its outstanding RUS Notes.

(c) The borrower must identify the source of private financing that will be used to refinance its outstanding RUS Notes, which financing may not include obligations the income of which is exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

(d) The borrower must have expended all funds advanced on account of the RUS Notes for the purposes for which such funds were advanced.

(e) The borrower must agree to a rescission of the unadvanced balance of the RUS Notes.

(f) The borrower must agree that the borrower, its successors or assigns, shall pay to the Government, as a condition of receiving additional loans or loan guarantees pursuant to Titles I, II and III of the Act, an amount equal to the aggregate of the difference with respect to each of the RUS Notes between the amount outstanding on the RUS Note and the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Note upon prepayment with interest accruing quarterly; the interest rates shall be the rates provided in the respective RUS Notes.

(g) If the borrower is a party to a wholesale power contract with a power supplier financed pursuant to the Act, the borrower must provide the Administrator with such assurances as the Administrator may request that it will meet its obligations to the power supplier.
