
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1786 - PREPAYMENT OF RUS GUARANTEED AND INSURED LOANS TO ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BORROWERS
##### Subpart E - Discounted Prepayments on RUS Notes in the Event of a Merger of Certain RUS Electric Borrowers
###### ยง 1786.102 Prepayment agreement.

Upon approving an application for prepayment under this subpart, the Administrator shall notify the borrower and deliver to the borrower for its execution a prepayment agreement which shall set forth and provide:

(a) The RUS Notes to be prepaid and when the Discounted Present Value will be calculated.

(b) The place, date and conditions for closing.

(c) Agreement that the unadvanced balance of RUS Notes shall be rescinded.

(d) Agreement that the borrower, or its successors or assigns, shall pay to the Government, as a condition of receiving additional loans or loan guarantees pursuant to titles I and III of the Act, an amount equal to the aggregate of the difference with respect to each of the RUS Notes between the amount outstanding on the RUS Note and the Discounted Present Value of the prepaid RUS Note; with interest accruing quarterly. The interest rates shall be the rates provided in the respective RUS Notes.

(e) Assurances that the borrower will meet its obligations to any power supplier financed pursuant to the Act.

(f) Such other terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.
