
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1786 - PREPAYMENT OF RUS GUARANTEED AND INSURED LOANS TO ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BORROWERS
##### Subpart F - Discounted Prepayments on RUS Electric Loans
###### ยง 1786.153 Discounted present value.

(a) The discounted present value shall be calculated by summing the present values of all remaining payments on all Qualified Notes to be prepaid according to the following formula and adjusted as provided in paragraph (b) of this section if tax exempt financing is used.

(b)(1) In the event that the borrower prepays a loan under paragraph (a) of this section using, directly or indirectly, tax exempt financing, the discount shall be adjusted to ensure that the borrower receives a benefit that is no greater than the benefit the borrower would receive if the borrower used financing that was not tax exempt. The borrower shall certify in writing whether the financing will be tax exempt.

(2) The discount rate established in paragraph (a) of this section shall be adjusted for a tax exempt financing by substituting for the "I" term in the discount rate formula, a discount rate equal to the interest rate(s) published pursuant to 7 CFR 1714.5, determination of interest rates on municipal rate loans. This is the interest rate established for the new RUS loan program which is based on municipal interest rates for issues of comparable maturity. No interpolation or average will be used. If a note is to be prepaid under this subpart and is subject to this tax exempt adjustment, the discount rate will be determined from the published table in theFor example, if the note to be discounted matures in the year 1999 then the discount rate will be the interest rate for the year 1999. RUS will publish a schedule of interest rates for municipal rate loans in theat the beginning of each calendar quarter. The published rates in effect eight business days prior to closing will be used for the discount rates. All notes to be prepaid that have remaining years to maturity of more than 20 years will be discounted at the interest rate in effect for new RUS municipal rate loans of comparable maturity at the time of closing.
