
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1786 - PREPAYMENT OF RUS GUARANTEED AND INSURED LOANS TO ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BORROWERS
##### Subpart F - Discounted Prepayments on RUS Electric Loans
###### ยง 1786.168 Borrowers who prepaid under this part prior to October 21, 1992.

(a) A borrower that had prepaid, prior to the date of enactment of Public Law 102-428 (106 Stat. 2183) on October 21, 1992, at a discount rate as provided at 7 CFR part 1786, subpart C:

(1) Shall not be eligible except at the discretion of the Administrator as stated in paragraph ยง 1786.167(a), to apply for or receive direct or insured loans during the 180-month period beginning on the date of the prepayment; and

(2) Shall not be eligible to apply for or receive direct or insured loans from RUS until the borrower has repaid to the RUS the sum of:

(i) The amount (if any) by which the discount the borrower received by reason of the prepayment exceeds the discount the borrower would have received had the discount been based on the cost of funds to the Department of the Treasury as calculated at ยง 1786.153 at the time of the prepayment; and

(ii) Interest on the amount described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for the period beginning on the date of the prepayment and ending on the date of the repayment, at a rate equal to the average annual cost of borrowing by the Department of the Treasury. This rate will be calculated first on the date of prepayment and at one year intervals from that date based on the same U.S. Treasury issues published in the Federal Reserve Statistical Release closest to that date. The Treasury rate of interest to be applied for each year will be the rate for the Treasury issue of comparable maturity to the number of years from the prepayment date to the repayment date and at one year intervals thereafter.

(b) If a borrower and the Administrator have entered into an agreement with respect to a prepayment occurring before October 21, 1992, this section shall supersede any provision in the agreement relating to the restoration of eligibility for loans under the RE Act.

(c) Borrowers who prepaid prior to October 1, 1987, are eligible for assistance under the RE Act in the same manner as other borrowers with respect to loan guarantees and the rural development loans.

(d) During the 180 month period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section the Administrator may consider providing an insured loan, if the conditions described in ยง 1786.167(a) exist.

(e) Borrowers may not apply for direct or insured loans for facilities, construction of which commenced prior to the expiration of the 180 month period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
