
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1788 - RUS FIDELITY AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRIC AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS
##### Subpart B - Insurance for Contractors, Engineers, and Architects, Electric Borrowers
###### ยง 1788.11 Minimum insurance requirements for contractors, engineers, and architects.

(a) Each electric borrower shall include the provisions in this paragraph in its agreements with contractors, engineers, and architects, said agreements that are wholly or partially financed by RUS loans or guarantees. The borrower should replace "Contractor" with "Engineer" or "Architect" as appropriate.

(b) Electric borrowers shall also ensure that all architects and engineers working under contract with the borrower have insurance coverage for Errors and Omissions (Professional Liability Insurance) in an amount at least as large as the amount of the architectural or engineering services contract but not less than $500,000.

(c) The borrower may increase the limits of insurance if desired.

(d) The minimum requirement of $1 million of public liability insurance does not apply to contractors performing maintenance work, janitorial-type services, meter reading services, rights-of-way mowing, and jobs of a similar nature. However, borrowers shall ensure that the contractor performing the work has public liability coverage at a level determined to be appropriate by the borrower.

(e) If requested by RUS, the borrower shall provide RUS with a certificate from the contractor, engineer, or architect evidencing compliance with the requirements of this section.
