
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1789 - USE OF CONSULTANTS FUNDED BY BORROWERS
##### Subpart A - Policy and Procedures With Respect to Consultant Services Funded by Borrowers - General
###### ยง 1789.152 Policy.

(a) As provided in this subpart, RUS may, at its discretion, use the services of Consultants funded by a Borrower where such services will facilitate timely action on an Application by such Borrower for financial assistance or other approvals. Such Consultants may provide financial, legal, engineering, environmental or other technical advice and services in connection with the review of an Application.

(b) With the approval of RUS, a Borrower may fund the cost of consulting services in connection with the review by RUS of an Application by such Borrower. Such funding shall be provided pursuant to the terms of a Funding Agreement between the Borrower and the Consultant designated by RUS.

(c) RUS may not, without the consent of the Borrower, require, as a condition of processing any Application for approval, that the Borrower agree to pay the costs of a Consultant hired to provide services to RUS.

(d) The government shall retain sole discretion in the selection of Consultants to provide services to RUS and the form of contract utilized. RUS may either use the services of one or more Consultants retained under Retainer Contracts or the government may elect to retain a Consultant not otherwise on retainer. The government shall have sole discretion to prescribe terms and conditions of Consultant Contracts. The Borrower may bring considerations to the attention of the government which the Borrower deems pertinent to the selection process.

(e) RUS shall retain sole discretion as to whether to further pursue use of an outside consultant for the relevant application in the event the Borrower does not enter into the agreements referenced in ยง 1789.158(c)(3)(iii) within 60 days of the government providing to the Borrower the information set forth in ยง 1789.158(c)(3).
