
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVII - Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 1789 - USE OF CONSULTANTS FUNDED BY BORROWERS
##### Subpart A - Policy and Procedures With Respect to Consultant Services Funded by Borrowers - General
###### ยง 1789.158 Implementation.

(a) Upon making a determination to go forward with Borrower funding for consulting services, RUS shall initiate a procurement request for a Consultant to provide the services. The government may either contract with a Consultant on a case by case basis or elect to use a Consultant pursuant to an outstanding Retainer Contract. The Borrower will not be informed of the Consultant selected until such time as the government provides the information set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(b) If the government determines to contract with a Consultant on a case by case basis, the government shall notify the Borrower of the applicable procedures.

(c) If the government determines to contract with a Consultant under an outstanding Retainer Contract, the following procedures will normally apply:

(1) Pursuant to the terms of the contract, the government will prepare a draft Task Order requesting consultant services in connection with the review of the Borrower's Application. The draft Task Order shall set forth for the Consultant's review and acceptance, a description of the services to be provided and applicable time frames for the provision of such services.

(2) The government will request that the Consultant:

(i) Notify the government as to the acceptability of the form and substance of the draft Task Order;

(ii) Notify the government as to its ability to provide a satisfactory conflict of interest certification consistent with the requirements of the FAR (48 CFR ch. 1); and

(iii) Provide a cost estimate for the draft Task Order.

(3) When the government is satisfied with the response(s) received pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the government shall promptly provide to the Borrower:

(i) A copy of the draft Task Order identifying the Consultant;

(ii) The Consultant's cost estimate for the draft Task Order; and

(iii) Contract information required to enable the Borrower to develop a Funding Agreement, an Escrow Agreement and an Indemnification Agreement (the "agreements").

(4) The Borrower shall develop and submit to the government for approval executed originals of:

(i) The agreements; and

(ii) A certified copy of a resolution of the board of directors authorizing the Borrower to enter into the agreements and to take such other action as is necessary to effect the purposes of the agreements.

(5) Upon receiving written RUS approval of the agreements and the form and substance of the board resolution, the Borrower shall:

(i) Establish and fund the Escrow Account; and

(ii) Provide written notice to the government of the Escrow Account number, the funding thereof, and such other information as required pursuant to the agreements.

(6) After the Borrower has funded the Escrow Account, the government shall issue Task Order(s) for consultant services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Retainer Contract.
