
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.2 Companies and policies.
######## Other policies.

(2)To be acceptable, any other insurance policies must conform to the requirements of this Instruction.

(i) "Homeowner's" policies, "All Physical Loss" policies, "Broad Form" policies, and other such all-inclusive policies are acceptable if they otherwise meet the requirements of this Instruction.

(ii) A builder's risk policy naming the borrower as the insured or a builder's risk endorsement for a policy issued to the borrower may be accepted during the period a building is under construction if the policy otherwise meets the requirements of this Instruction. If such a policy or endorsement does not automatically convert to full coverage when the building is completed, acceptable insurance must be obtained simultaneously with the expiration of the builder's isk provisions of the policy.

(iii) A builder's risk insurance policy issued to a contractor only may not be substituted for the property insurance, the borrower is required to provide.

(iv) Borrowers eligible for insurance under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended by the Flood Disaster Act of 1973, will be serviced in accordance with subpart B of this part.
