
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.2 Companies and policies.
######## Master sets.

(6)If the master sets meet all of the requirements of this Instruction they may be accepted in lieu of an original policy for each Agency borrower.

(i) One complete master set of the different insurance forms for policies issued by the insurance company must be on file in each County Office where the company insures property of Agency borrowers.

(ii) The "Declaration Page" furnished by the insurance company for each borrower insured, in lieu of a complete policy, will be filed in the borrower's case folder. When a "Declaration Page" in the form of a computer printout is used by an insurance company an endorsement on every policy issued by that company or a letter from that company will be obtained and attached to the printout. However, a letter signed by an authorized official of the company and addressed to the State Director may cover all policies issued by that company in the State. Any such endorsements or letters should clearly state that the company considers the printout to be an original "Declaration Page". Such endorsements or letters are not necessary if the printout itself clearly states that it is an original "Declaration Page."
