
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.3 Coverage requirements.
######## Exception of buildings from insurance.

(c)(1) Insurance will not be required on a building:

(i) That is not essential.

(ii) In such a state of disrepair that the cost of insurance would be prohibitive.

(iii) Which has a depreciated replacement value of $2,500 or less.

(iv) Which is being or has been repaired with a section 504 loan of $7,500 or less. Families receiving section 504 loans should be encouraged but not required to carry insurance on their home.

(v) On LH security property which was not built or repaired with Agency loan funds provided that the State Director determines that the land and other structures adequately secure the Agency loan and any prior liens.

(vi) On which the hazards are so slight because of the character and construction of the building, or the cost of the insurance is so high in comparison with the value of the building that, according to common standards of judgment, it should not be insured, including but not limited to windmills, silos, and fire-cured tobacco barns.

(vii) In cases where the unpaid balance of the Agency loans and any prior liens have been reduced to $2,500 or less, property insurance need not be required if the borrower wants to discontinue it, provided the County Supervisor determines that the value of the land security itself is sufficient to protect the Agency in its collection of the amount of the outstanding indebtedness.

(viii) If insurance for windstorm and hail to meet all Agency requirements is not available in a hurricane area, the County Supervisor may accept from the borrower or applicant the windstorm and hail insurance policy that most nearly conforms to Agency requirements. If such an exception is made, the situation should be fully documented in the borrower's case file. However, if the best insurance policy a borrower or applicant can obtain at the time he receives a loan contains a loss deductible clause for windstorm and hail damage exceeding $250 or 10 percent of the actual cash value of the buildings, whichever amount is greater, the insurance policy, with an explanation of the reasons why more adequate insurance is not available will be submitted to the State Office for prior approval.

(2) [Reserved]
