
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.5 Losses.
######## Loss drafts-When loan is secured by other than first mortgage.

(d)(1) When the loss draft does not include the interest of a prior mortgagee, it will be processed as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) When the loss draft includes the interest of a prior mortgagee, the County Supervisor is authorized to endorse and process the draft as follows:

(i) When the prior mortgagee will permit the use of such loss funds to repair or replace the damaged building, the draft may be endorsed without recourse upon satisfactory proof that the repairs or replacements have been made or upon satisfactory assurance that the work will be performed.

(ii) When the amount of the draft does not exceed the amount of the indebtedness then secured by the prior mortgage as stated in writing by the holder of the prior mortgage, and the holder of the prior mortgage has agreed in a written statement to the County Supervisor that he will apply such funds as a payment on the borrower's prior mortgage indebtedness, the draft may be endorsed without recourse.

(iii) When the amount of the draft exceeds the amount of the indebtedness then secured by the prior mortgage, as stated in writing by the holder, and he has agreed in writing to pay such indebtedness from the loss funds, the draft will be endorsed without recourse only after all parties named as payees in the draft have signed an agreement to deliver the draft "in escrow" to a bank acceptable to the named parties. The agreement will specify the manner in which the funds will be disbursed by the bank, as escrow agent, to the several mortgagees named in the draft. After the loss funds have been collected by the bank, it will issue cashier's checks in the manner prescribed in the escrow agreement (see exhibit A for suggested form). If this procedure is found to be impractical in an individual instance, the State Director may authorize an alternative method for disbursing the loss funds to protect the Government's financial interest.

(iv) Drafts which have been endorsed by all other payees will be endorsed immediately without recourse. Such drafts or other loss funds will be processed in accordance with the methods described in paragraph (c) of this section.
