
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.4 Examining and general servicing of insurance.
######## Transfer of property.

(2)(i) When a borrower or transferee requests the consent of the Agency to a transfer of the security property which already has been made, or when the County Supervisor learns that any such transfer has been made, he will immediately inform the transferee that the mortgage requires the owner to provide and maintain adequate insurance acceptable to, and with loss payable to, the Agency as mortgagee. The transferee may obtain a new insurance policy or the transferor may have the insurance company or agent issue an endorsement to the current insurance policy changing the name of the assured to that of the transferee. If a new insurance policy is obtained, the old policy or other evidence of insurance will be returned to the transferor unless there is an unsettled loss. If there is an unsettled loss, the policy or other evidence of insurance will not be returned until the claim has been settled. The County Supervisor, with the concurrence of the State Director and the OGC, will notify the borrower and transferee that acceptance of the new policy or endorsement will not constitute consent by the Government to the transfer even though the Government is protected by a loss payable clause in such an insurance policy.

(ii) In a transfer with assumption, insurance will be required in the same amount and according to the same provisions as for an initial loan of the same type.
