
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.6 Failure of borrower to provide insurance.
######## Expired policies.

(a)(1) The County Supervisor will request the insurance agency or broker who issued the expired policy to issue a new policy which is acceptable to the Agency.

(i) The new policy will be effective as of the date of the County Supervisor's contact with the insurance agency or broker or as soon thereafter as possible, and will be for a term of one year. If State insurance regulations require a longer term, the State Director will issue a State Instruction authorizing County Supervisors to obtain policies for the minimum period permitted by State insurance regulations.

(ii) The Agency will be shown in the loss payable clause and in the mortgage clause in the proper order of priority.

(iii) Insurance coverage on each building usually will be the same as shown on the expired policy if it meets or exceeds Agency requirements. If the coverage shown on the expired policy does not meet Agency requirements, proper coverage will be obtained.

(iv) The County Supervisor will, if possible, have an automatic renewal provision included in the policy.

(v) If the borrower refuses to pay the insurance premium with his own funds or arrange with the agent for subsequent payment by premium not or otherwise, the County Supervisor will pay the amount of the insurance premium in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A. The amount of the premium payment will be charged to the borrower's Agency account with the highest lien priority as a recoverable cost item.

(vi) If the insurance agency or broker who issued the expired policy refuses to issue a new policy, the County Supervisor will have the borrower designate in writing another insurance agency or broker from whom the insurance can be obtained.

(vii) After the County Supervisor and the borrower exhaust all efforts to obtain acceptable insurance, the County Supervisor will request advice from the State Office as to companies issuing acceptable policies in the State and from which the borrower might be able to obtain an acceptable policy. If the borrower still cannot obtain an acceptable policy from any such company, and the determination has been made to continue with the borrower, the County Supervisor will temporarily accept from the borrower the available insurance policy the Agency determines most nearly conforms to the requirements of ยง 1806.2 of this subpart.
