
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.5 Losses.
######## Completing adjustment.

(g)The borrower must complete the adjustment of the loss with the company or its authorized representatives. The County Supervisor, upon request of the borrower may consult with the borrower regarding the loss adjustment, but will not enter into negotiations with insurance adjusters or company representatives relative to the adjustment or settlement of losses on borrower property, or make any commitments, or sign any forms in connection with the adjustment of the loss. The Agency will not waive any rights which it may have against the company except when the borrower's account or the Agency claim has been paid-in-full.

(1) The County Supervisor will maintain a proper followup on all losses until satisfactory settlement has been made by the company.

(2) Where the County Supervisor has evidence that the adjustment agreed to by the borrower is significantly less than the amount of damage to which the borrower is entitled under the terms of the policy, the loss draft accompanied by a report will be sent to the State Director so that he may reopen the adjustment, if he considers it is in the interest of the Agency to do so.

(3) When it appears evident that the amount of the loss is $1,000 or less, the County Supervisor may rely on estimates of contractors, building supply firms, reliable carpenters, or other evidence rather than personal inspection in determining whether the adjustment is equitable and the Government's interest is protected.
