
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.6 Failure of borrower to provide insurance.
######## not

When a borrower fails to provide and maintain property insurance which meets the requirements set forth in ยง 1806.2 of this subpart, every effort will be made to have the borrower provide coverage acceptable to the Agency. It will be emphasized that under the terms of the security instrument, it is the borrower's responsibility to provide and maintain proper insurance coverage. Existing borrowers required to escrow will be notified by letter at least 90 days prior to initiating escrowing for insurance. Failure to provide insurance is a nonmonetary default and will be a consideration in determining if the loan is to be continued. For FP or SFH borrowersrequired to escrow, the County Supervisor will obtain insurance coverage and voucher for the insurance premium only in cases where: An unusual and severe hazard, such as recurring fires or unstable ground conditions, exists, or, an SFH borrower on a moratorium is unable to pay the insurance premium and the borrower requests that the Agency pay the premium. For SFH borrowers required to escrow, force placed insurance will be obtained if the borrower fails to provide acceptable insurance. Borrowers being phased into escrow will be given at least 30 days to obtain coverage, after which force placed insurance will be obtained. If the escrow account contains insufficient funds to pay the insurance when due, the County Supervisor will request the borrower to pay an amount equal to the difference between the premium due and the escrow balance in a lump sum within 30 days after notification. If the borrower fails to remit the amount requested, the amount will be advanced and charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. The amortization period for an advance due to an escrow shortage will be one year. Insurance coverage shall be provided continuously unless the property is acquired by the Agency. The cost of obtaining such a policy shall be advanced and charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. Amortization of the charge will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550. If a borrower indebted for other than an FP or SFH loan fails to provide acceptable insurance, the Servicing Official will take the following action:
