
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart A - Real Property Insurance
####### ยง 1806.5 Losses.
######## Losses not covered by insurance.

(i)When a loss occurs and insurance is not in force, the County Supervisor will:

(1) Inform the borrower that he has violated the security instrument by not providing insurance coverage and that it is his responsibility to make the needed replacements or repairs.

(2) If the borrower is unable or unwilling to make needed repairs or replacements from his own resources, the County Supervisor will submit complete information to the Agency official authorized to determine whether the Agency will or will not continue with the loan. The County Supervisor's report will include recommendations on the following items:

(i) The advisability and possibility of making a subsequent loan to pay for needed repairs.

(ii) Subordination of the Agency real estate lien to permit the borrower to obtain funds for needed repairs from another source.

(iii) The possibility of the borrower obtaining funds secured by a junior lien from another source.

(iv) Whether an advance is needed to protect the Government's interest in the property.

(3) If the loan will not be continued with the borrower, it must be serviced in accordance with the applicable Instructions.

(4) If the borrower has improperly disposed of loss proceeds, the County Supervisor will refer the case with complete information and recommendations to the State Director. The State Director will consult the Regional Attorney when necessary and advise the County Supervisor as to appropriate servicing actions.
