
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - National Flood Insurance
####### ยง 1806.25 Conditions.
######## Flood insurance coverage.

(c)(1) Any property on which flood insurance is required must be covered by such insurance during its anticipated economic and useful life in an amount at least equal to its development or replacement cost (except estimated land cost), or to the maximum limit of coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property under the National Flood Insurance Program, whichever is less. However, if the financial assistance provided is in the form of a loan, the amount of flood insurance required need not exceed the outstanding principal balance of the loan and need not be required beyond the term of the loan.

(2) The contents of a building must be insured separately from a building but coverage cannot be written on the contents of a three-walled machinery shed or similar type open building.

(3) Flood insurance shall not be required on any state owned property that is covered under an adequate state policy of self-insurance satisfactory to the Secretary of HUD, who will publish a list of states with such policies.

(4) It will be emphasized that under the terms of the security instrument it is the borrower's responsibility to provide and maintain proper flood insurance coverage. If flood insurance is not provided on any property for which it is required, the flood insurance premium will be paid to protect the Government's security interest. For borrowers required to escrow for flood insurance, payment of the premium will be handled in accordance with ยง 1806.28 of this subpart. Existing borrowers required to escrow will be notified by letter at least 90 days prior to initiating escrowing for flood insurance. If the Agency pays the flood insurance premium for borrowers not required to escrow, the cost will be charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. Failure to provide flood insurance is a nonmonetary default and will be a consideration in determining if the loan is to be continued.
