
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - General Regulations
##### PART 1806 - INSURANCE
###### Subpart B - National Flood Insurance
####### ยง 1806.25 Conditions.
######## Dwelling and multi-unit housing facilities.

(a)(1) If the financial assistance is to buy a dwelling or multi-unit housing facility:

(i) The first floor elevation of the habitable space of the dwelling or housing unit must be above the 100-year flood level.

(ii) The housing must be served by public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems that are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, or have an onsite water supply system and waste disposal system located so as to avoid impairment of such systems and contamination from the waste disposal system to the water supply system from flooding.

(2) If the financial assistance is to build or provide substantial improvement, the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be met and all construction must meet requirements of the applicable development standards, and:

(i) A building permit must be issued by the appropriate governing officials having jurisdiction in the area and compliance must be had with the zoning code or other established legal requirements of the area for reducing or eliminating flood or mudslide damage.

(ii) The structure must be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.

(iii) Construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to flood damage must be used.

(iv) Construction methods and practices that will minimize flood damage must be followed.

(3) If the financial assistance is to make minor repairs, the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (ii) and (2) (i), (ii) and (iii) of this section must be met or the building must have existed on the site prior to the date the area was identified as having special flood or mudslide hazards and the loan approval official must determine that the dwelling is suitable as a residence.

(4) When applications for financial assistance are received in areas identified as having special flood and mudslide hazards, the loan approval official will consider the expected severity and frequency of floods and mudslides in determining whether any housing loans should be made in the area. He should be sure, if loans are made, that the objectives of the loans can be accomplished and the Government's financial interest will be adequately protected.
