
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.266 Limitations.
######## Sale of developed sites.

(c)The sites developed with a section 524 loan must be for housing low- and moderate-income families and may be sold to families, nonprofit organizations, public agencies, and cooperatives eligible for assistance under any section of title V of the Housing Act of 1949, or under any other law which provides financial assistance. For example, this may include:

(1) Individuals with low and moderate incomes eligible for HUD mortgages.

(2) Individuals with low and moderate incomes eligible for VA guaranteed loans.

(3) Individuals with low or moderate incomes eligible for a loan from any private lender which is authorized by law to provide financial assistance for housing.

(4) Nonprofit organizations funded by Federal, State, or local governments carrying out programs for low- and moderate-income families to obtain housing.

(5) State or local public agencies such as a housing authority or a housing finance development agency carrying out programs for low- and moderate-income families to obtain housing.
