
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.266 Limitations.
######## Obligations incurred before loan closing.

(e)When an applicant files an application for a loan, the county supervisor will advise the applicant that development work must not be started and obligations for work, materials, or land purchase must not be incurred before the loan is closed. If, nevertheless, the applicant incurs obligations for work, materials, or land purchase before the loan is closed, the State director may authorize the use of loan funds to pay such obligations only when he finds that all the following conditions exist:

(1) The obligations were incurred after the applicant filed a written application for a loan.

(2) The applicant is unable to pay such obligations from its own resources or to obtain credit from other sources, and failure to authorize the use of loan funds to pay such debts would impair the applicant's financial position.

(3) The obligations were incurred for authorized loan purposes.

(4) Contracts, materials, development and any land purchase meet RD standards and requirements.

(5) Payment of the obligations will remove any liens which have attached, and any basis for liens that may attach, to the property on account of such obligations or such work, materials, or land purchase.
