
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.267 Special conditions.
######## Use of and accountability for loan funds.

(i)Supervised bank accounts will not be used except when their requirement is made or authorized by the State director for cases where adequate bonding is not available. If a supervised bank account is used, collateral for deposits of funds will be pledged when the supervised bank account exceeds $100,000. All loan funds and funds from other sources to be used to pay the development costs of the site, as well as proceeds from the sale of any sites, will be deposited in accordance with part 1902, subpart A of this chapter. The county supervisor will see that funds for land purchase are paid to the seller simultaneously with loan closing. After the loan is closed, monthly reports will be provided to Rural Development of all disbursements made and income received by the borrower. Reports for each month will be submitted to the Rural Development county office during the first 10 days of the next month. No expenditures will be made without prior Rural Development consent for items which are not included in the Rural Development approved development cost estimate or for amounts greater than those set forth in such estimate.
