
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.267 Special conditions.
######## Conditional commitments for construction of homes on developed sites.

(l)Conditional commitments may be issued on sites developed with an RHS section 524 loan to permit homes to be constructed on sites prior to the sale of the site to an eligible purchaser in accordance with the following:

(1) The requirements of 7 CFR 3550.70 must be met and a conditional commitment issued prior to the start of construction of the home.

(2) The conditional commitment must be issued to an RHS borrower who can legally provide the proposed housing and has the experience and training in construction to the extent necessary to assure that the housing will be built or jointly to the RHS loan borrower and a builder who has the legal capacity, training and experience necessary to construct the housing. In all cases the following language will be added under "other conditions" on Form RD 1944-11, "Conditional Commitment":

(i) "Not withstanding the other provisions of this commitment the sale of completed homes on sites developed with section 524 Rural Housing Site loans will be limited to families eligible for assistance under any section of title V of the Housing Act of 1949 or under any other law which provides financial assistance for housing low- and moderate-income families. The approval of Rural Development will be obtained prior to the sale of each home. The request for approval shall be submitted to the local Rural Development office along with an application for an RH 502 loan or a financial statement from the purchaser and verification of the other credit that is available."

(ii) The benefits of the nonprofit development of the site(s) must be passed on to the purchaser. This will result in this site being sold for $______ (price to be determined as provided for in (ยง 1822.275(b))).

(3) In arriving at the commitment price for the site and the completed home, the value will be based on the present market value of the house only, plus the nonprofit selling price of the lot.

(4) If in order to obtain interim financing for the construction of the homes, the RHS loan borrower requests a subordination by Rural Development on individual lots, the State Director may approve the subordination by completing and executing a subordination in the format of exhibit C of this subpart.

(5) The government's lien on any lot will be released only at the time of sale to an eligible purchaser.

(6) The County Supervisor should provide the necessary supervision to assure that the RHS loan borrower takes the necessary action to assure that all qualified builders in the area are aware of the availability of rural housing sites and are given an equal opportunity to participate in this conditional commitment program. As a minimum, the borrower will be required to submit a signed statement indicating the actions taken including names and dates of contacts with builders.
