
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.271 Processing applications.
######## Completion of the docket.

(c)If the county supervisor determines that the applicant is eligible and the loan will be sound and proper, he should request the applicant to make any needed revisions. In addition to the items required in the application the docket must include:

(1) A plot plan and detailed preliminary plans and specifications for development of the building sites.

(2) A detailed cost breakdown of the project for such items as land and rights-of-way, utility installations or connections, on-site improvements, engineering and legal services, and estimated interest.

(3) If water and sanitary facilities are not publicly owned, a complete statement as to how they will be provided and details about their ownership and operation.

(4) Satisfactory evidence of review and approval of the proposed development by applicable State and local officials whose approval is required by State or local laws, ordinances, or regulations.

(5) Satisfactory evidence that the appropriate public bodies will accept and maintain all public facilities, including common areas, playgrounds, and tot lots, when dedicated to such bodies.
