
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.271 Processing applications.
######## Application.

(a)The application will be in the form of a letter to the county supervisor with the following information included in or attached to the letter:

(1) Name and address of applicant.

(2) A copy of, or an accurate citation to, the specific provisions of State law under which the applicant is organized; a copy of the applicant's articles of incorporation, bylaws, and other authorizing documents; the names and addresses of the applicant's members, directors, and officers; and if another organization is a member of the applicant organization its name, address, and principal business.

(3) A current, dated, and signed financial statement showing assets, and liabilities, together with information on the repayment schedule and status of each debt.

(4) Evidence of inability to obtain credit from other sources.

(5) General description of the project.

(i) Location and size of tract or tracts to be bought and/or developed.

(ii) Number and size of individual sites planned together with a detailed plot plan.

(iii) Preliminary engineering plans, if available.

(6) Estimated cost and amount of loan needed.

(7) Explanation of applicant's financial contribution to the project.

(8) A map showing the location of and other supporting information on neighborhood and existing facilities such as distance to shopping area, neighborhood churches, available transportation, drainage, sanitation facilities, water supply available or planned, and access to essential services such as doctors, dentists, and hospitals.

(9) If facilities such as water and sewage systems, paved streets, and utilities are not currently available, information on when and how they will be provided.

(10) Evidence of the need for the proposed sites in the locality by low- and moderate-income families and other qualified applicants that are likely to be able to obtain financing for a home.

(11) Written evidence of any State, county, or local planning, zoning, or other ordinances imposing additional restrictions or requirements upon the proposed sites.
