
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.271 Processing applications.
######## County supervisor's review and evaluation of applications.

(b)The county supervisor will:

(1) Determine that the applicant meets the eligibility requirements of ยง 1822.264.

(2) Verify that the information provided is accurate and complete.

(3) Determine that:

(i) The sites will be located in a good residential area and that essential facilities and services will be provided.

(ii) The lots will be reasonable in cost and of a type Rural Development can appropriately finance.

(iii) There is an immediate and ready market for the proposed sites in the planned location.

(iv) The total number of sites planned does not exceed the number of loans the county supervisor can reasonably expect to include in the rural housing program or for which other credit is reasonably assured when the sites are developed.

(v) Proposed subdivisions will comply with the local codes and ordinances and also meet the requirements of subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.

(4) Evaluate the manner in which the applicant plans to conduct its business and financial affairs.

(5) Comment on the background of the members, directors and officials.

(6) If he has questions about the proposal, send the incomplete docket to the State office for advice.

(7) If for any reason the loan cannot be made, inform the applicant.
