
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Loans and Grants Primarily for Real Estate Purposes
##### PART 1822 - RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
###### Subpart G - Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
####### ยง 1822.271 Processing applications.
######## Loan approval authority and State Office action.

(g)The State Director is authorized to approve loans in accordance with this subpart and subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter. As soon as it is evident that a loan will be approved, the State Director will complete exhibit A to subpart C of part 2015 of this chapter. The State Director may redelegate approval authority to qualified State Office employees. When a docket or preliminary application is received in the State Office, the State Director will:

(1) Utilize the services of technicians on his staff and from other agencies in evaluating the application.

(2) Review the applicant's articles of incorporation and bylaws. If they conform to approved forms for the State as provided in ยง 1822.264(a)(1)(ii), the State director need not obtain a preliminary opinion from the OGC. In all other cases the State director will, and in any case may, submit the docket with any comments or questions to the OGC for a preliminary opinion as to whether the applicant and the proposed loan meet or can meet the requirements of State law and this subpart.

(3) If additional information is needed to adequately evaluate the application, return the loan docket to the District Director with any comments and recommendations for further processing.

(4) If the docket is sufficiently complete to enable the State Director to determine that the applicant is eligible and the loan would be sound and proper, issue a proposed memorandum of approval listing any specific conditions that must be met before loan closing.

(5) If the applicant is not eligible or the loan would not be sound and proper and the deficiencies cannot be corrected, inform the District Director accordingly.
