
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1900 - GENERAL
###### Subpart A - Delegations of Authority
####### ยง 1900.2 National office staff and state directors.

The following officials of the Rural Development, in accordance with applicable laws, and the regulations implementing these laws, are severally authorized, for and on behalf of and in the name of the United States of America or the Rural Development, to do and perform all acts necessary in connection with making and insuring loans, making grants and advances, servicing loans and other indebtedness and obtaining, servicing and enforcing security and other instruments related thereto: The Deputy Administrator Program Operations, the Assistant Administrators for Farmer Programs, Housing, and Community and Business Programs, the Assistant Administrator Accounting and Director Finance Office; each Director and the Insured Loan Officer, Finance Office; the Directors for the Water and Waste Disposal Division, the Community Facilities Division, the Business and Industry Division, the Multi-Family Housing Processing Division, the Multi-Family Housing Servicing and Property Management Division, the Single Family Housing Processing Division, the Single Family Housing Servicing and Property Management Division, the Farm Real Estate and Production Division, the Emergency Division; and each State Director within the area of that State Director's jurisdiction; and in the absence or disability of any such official, the person acting in that official's position; and the delegates of any such official. The authority includes, but is not limited to, the authority to:

(a) Effect the assignment of, or the declaration of trust with respect to, insured security instruments to place them in trust with the United States of America as trustee for the benefit of any holder of the promissory note or bond secured by such security instrument.

(b) Acknowledge receipt of notice of sale or assignment of insured loans and security instruments.

(c) Appoint or request the appointment of substitute trustees in deeds of trust.

(d) Execute proofs of claim in bankruptcy, death, and other cases.

(e) Consent to sale or assignment of, or sell or assign, direct or insured loans and security instruments (except that in the case of Agency asset sales, District Directors and County Supervisors are delegated the authority to assign security instruments), endorsements, reinsurance agreements, or other instruments in connection therewith; and execute agreements to insure and reinsure, and to purchase and repurchase insured loans and security instruments.

(f) Compromise, adjust, cancel or charge off indebtedness (except that County Supervisors are delegated authority to approve all settlements of sections 502 and 504 single family housing debt(s)).

(g) Modify contracts and other instruments and compromise claims owed to the Rural Development and covered by the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 and the joint regulations issued under it by the Attorney General and the Comptroller General as provided for in applicable program regulations.

(h) Perform all actions pertaining to the sale (or other disposal) of real or chattel property or interests therein and to execute and deliver bills of sale or other instruments to effect such sale (or disposition), which includes but is not limited to offering property for sale; advertising; receiving and accepting offers or bids; and closing sale transactions, including the collection of sale proceeds, and delivery of quitclaim deeds, easements, and right-of-way conveyances after those documents have been executed. The authority to execute any deeds of conveyance of inventory real property, including quitclaim deeds, easements, rights-of-way, or sale of any use rights is reserved to the State Director, and this authority may not be redelegated.

(i) Approve and consent to transfers of security property to other parties with or without assumption of debts; and approve and accept transfers of security property or interests therein to the United States of America, and execute release from liability after determination is made in accordance with applicable program regulations.

(j) Execute and deliver, or approve in writing, suspensions, releases or terminations of assignments, of income, renewals, extensions, partial and full releases and satisfactions of security, and personal or indemnity liability for indebtedness, waivers, subordination agreements, severance agreements, affidavits, acknowlegements, certificates of residence, evidence of consent, and other instruments or documents.

(k) Accelerate and declare entire real estate or chattel indebtedness due and payable, foreclose or request foreclosure of real estate security instruments by exercise of power of sale or otherwise, and bid for and purchase at any foreclosure or other sale or otherwise acquire real property pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, attached, or levied upon to collect indetedness, and accept title to any property so purchased or acquired.

(l) Require and accept further or additional security.

(m) Accelerate and declare entire non-real estate indebtedness due and payable, and foreclose or request foreclosure of chattel security instruments by exercise of power of sale or otherwise.

(n) Bid for and purchase at any foreclosure or other sale, or otherwise acquire personal property pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, attached, or levied upon to collect indebtedness, and accept title to any property so purchased or acquired.

(o) Take possession of, maintain, and operate security or acquired real or personal property or interests therein, sell or otherwise dispose of such personal property, and execute and deliver contracts, caretaker's agreements, leases, and other instruments in connection therewith, as appropriate.

(p) Execute proofs of loss on insurance contracts and endorse without recourse loss payment drafts and checks.

(q) Issue, publish and serve notices and other instruments.

(r) File or record instruments, whether separate instruments, or by making marginal entries, or by use of other methods permissible under State law.
