
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1900 - GENERAL
###### Subpart B - Adverse Decisions and Administrative Appeals
####### Exhibit B-3 to Subpart B of Part 1900 - Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lender, Holders and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions Where the Decision Involves an Appraisal (Not To Be Used in Cases Involving Farmer Program Primary Loan Servicing Actions)

Dear____________:

After careful consideration, we [were unable to take favorable action on your application/request for Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 services] [are cancelling/reducing the assistance you are presently receiving]. The specific reasons for our decision are:

If you have any questions concerning the decision or the facts used in making our decision and desire further explanation, you may call or write the County Office (insert phone number) to request a meeting with (this office) (The County Committee) within 15 calendar days of the date of this letter. You should present any new information or evidence along with possible alternatives for our consideration. You may also bring a representative or legal counsel with you.

If you do not wish to have a meeting as outlined above, you may contest the appraisal of the property value. In order to contest the appraisal you must first request review of the appraisal by the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director. Your request for review by the State Director should be made through our office. You will be advised of the results of the State Director's review. If after the State Director's review you still disagree with the appraisal you may request a hearing. When you receive the results of the State Director's review you will be advised on how to ask for a hearing. Your request for review of the appraisal must be postmarked no later than (month)__________, (date) ________ (insert date 15 days from date of letter).

The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter
