
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1900 - GENERAL
###### Subpart B - Adverse Decisions and Administrative Appeals
####### Exhibit B-4 to Subpart B of Part 1900 - Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders and Holders and Borrowers of Unfavorable Decision Reached After State Director Review of an Appraisal (Not To Be Used in Cases Involving Farmer Program Primary Loan Servicing Actions)

Dear ____________:

At your request we have reviewed the appraisal of the property you wish to purchase. We have determined that the value estimate of the property is both supportable and defensible (as required by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 regulations and appraisal industry standards) and therefore acceptable.

You have the right to appeal this decision. You must show why the appraisal is in error. You may submit an independent appraisal, at your expense, from a qualified appraiser who is a designated member of [the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers, Society of Real Estate Appraisers, American Society of Farm Managers and Rural Appraisers, etc.,] or an equivalent organization requiring appraisal education, testing and experience. The appraisal must conform to Agency Appraisal regulations applicable to the loan program.

See attachment for your appeal rights.

A request for a hearing must be sent to the Area Supervisor, National Appeals Staff (address) ____________, postmarked no later than (month) ____________, (date) ____________,

The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract), because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program, or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal Agency that administers compliance with the law concerning this creditor is the Federal Trade Commission, Equal Credit Opportunity, Washington, DC 20580.
