
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1900 - GENERAL
###### Subpart B - Adverse Decisions and Administrative Appeals
####### Exhibit C to Subpart B of Part 1900 - Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders, Holders, and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions When Part or All of the Decision Is Not Appealable [Not Used in Connection With Decisions Related to Nonprogram Applicants, Borrowers, or Property]
######## telephone number

If you have any questions about this action, we would like the opportunity to explain in detail why your request has not been approved, explain any possible alternative, or provide any other information you would like. You may bring any additional information you may have and you may bring a representative or counsel if you wish. Please call () for an appointment.

Applicants and borrowers generally have a right to appeal adverse decisions, but FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 decisions based on certain reasons are not appealable. We have determined that the reason(s) numbered ________ for the decision in this case make(s) the decision not appealable under FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 regulations. You may, however, write the Area Supervisor, National Appeals Staff (insert address) for a review of the accuracy of our finding that the decision is not appealable, postmarked no later than (month) ________, (date) ________ (insert date 30 days from date of letter).

The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract), because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program, or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal Agency that administers compliance with the law concerning this creditor is the Federal Trade Commission, Equal Credit Opportunity, Washington, DC 20580.
