
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart E - Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 1901.202 Nondiscrimination in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 programs.
######## Nondiscrimination by recipients of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 assistance.

(a)(1) No recipient of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 financial assistance will directly or through contractual or other arrangements subject any person or cause any person to be subjected to discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin, with respect to any program or facility. This prohibition applies but is not restricted to unequal treatment in priority, quality, quantity, methods, or charges for service, use, occupancy or benefit, participation in the service or benefit available, or in the use, occupancy or benefit of any structure, facility, or improvement provided with FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 financial assistance.

(2) Specifically, and without limiting the general applicability of this subpart, such recipient will not on the grounds of race, color, or national origin:

(i) Deny any person the use, occupancy, or enjoyment of the whole or any part of real or personal property or service, financial aid, or other benefit under any program or facility.

(ii) Provide any person with any service, use, occupancy, or other benefit different from that provided others by the program or facility.

(iii) Subject any person to segregation or separate treatment in any matter related to his or her receipt of any service or other benefit.

(iv) Restrict in any way any person's enjoyment of any right, privilege, or advantage enjoyed by others through the facility or activity.

(v) Treat any person differently from others in determining whether he or she satisfies any requirements or conditions for any admission or membership in the recipient or in any other organization.

(vi) Deny any person an opportunity or restrict opportunity to participate in a program or facility by:

(A) Refusing or failing to provide notice or services provided others for the purpose of encouraging participation in the program or facility; or

(B) Providing any person with such notice or services different from the notice or services provided others.

(vii) Utilize criteria or methods of administration that have the effect of subjecting a person to discrimination with respect to any program or facility or defeating or substantially impairing the achievement of the objectives of a program or facility.

(viii) Select sites or locate facilities with the purpose or effect of:

(A) Excluding individuals from, denying them the benefits of, or subjecting them to discrimination under any programs to which the regulations in this subpart apply; or

(B) Defeating or substantially impairing the achievement of the objectives of the regulations in this subpart.

(ix) Continue any previous or existing discriminatory practices, but will take affirmative action to overcome the effects of such discrimination.

(x) Deny any person the opportunity to participate as a member of a planning or advisory body which is an integral part of the program.
