
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart E - Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 1901.202 Nondiscrimination in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 programs.
######## Nondiscrimination by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees.

(b)(1) No. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employee will exclude from participation in, or deny the benefits of, any program or activity administered by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, or subject to discrimination any person in the United States on the ground of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or marital status.

(2) No FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employee will:

(i) Be limited in the discharge of his or her responsibilities to working with applicants solely on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or marital status.

(ii) Obstruct equal access to buildings, facilities, structures, or lands under the control of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(iii) Deny under any program or activity of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 equal opportunity for employment; for participation in meetings, demonstrations, training activities or programs; for receiving awards; for receipt of information disseminated by publication, news, radio, and other media; for obtaining contracts, grants, loans or other financial assistance, or for selection to assist in the administration of programs or activities of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(3) No FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employee will, while conducting official business, participate in or attend any segregated meetings or meetings held in a segregated facility from which persons are excluded because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or marital status.
