
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart E - Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 1901.204 Compliance reviews.
######## Recipients subject to reviews.

(a)Recipients of the following kinds of loans and/or grants who received their loans or advances of funds on or after January 3, 1965, will be reviewed for compliance in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Guaranteed loans are not covered by Title VI and, therefore, are not subject to compliance reviews.

(1) Economic Opportunity loans to individuals for nonagricultural enterprises.

(2) Loans for Water and Waste Disposal facilities, including Resource Conservation and Development loans for this purpose.

(3) Community Facility loans.

(4) Watershed loans and advances.

(5) Recreation Association loans including those made from Resource Conservation and Development funds.

(6) Economic Opportunity loans to incorporated cooperative associations (Compliance reviews on unincorporated Economic Opportunity cooperatives subject to title VI will be conducted only as the need arises or as directed by either the State Director or the Administrator).

(7) Loans to Timber Development organizations.

(8) Rural Renewal loans and advances.

(9) Rural Rental Housing (formerly Senior Citizen rental) and Rural Cooperative Housing loans.

(10) Labor Housing loans and/or grants.

(11) Rural Housing Site loans.

(12) Business and Industrial Insured loans or grants.

(13) Technical Assistance grants.

(14) Development grants for water and waste disposal.

(15) Technical Assistance and Training grants in accordance with Title XIII of Pub. L. 99-198.

(16) Rural Business Development Grants.

(17) Section 601 Energy Impacted Area Development Assistance grants.

(18) Nonprofit National Corporations grants.

(19) System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs Panel Grants.

(20) Emergency Community Water Assistance grants.

(21) Section 306C WWD loans and grants.

(22) Housing Application Packaging Grants.

(23) Rural and Cooperative Development Grants in subpart F of part 4284 of this title.

(24) Community Facilities Grants in part 3570, subpart B, of this title.
