
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart E - Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 1901.203 Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968.
######## Discrimination acts prohibited.

(b)Title VIII prohibits FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees, multiple housing borrowers, and those with whom FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 does business (contractors, realtors, packagers) from:

(1) Refusing to sell or rent a particular dwelling because of a person's race, color, religion, or national origin. The following actions constitute violations of this provision:

(i) Refusing to package an RH loan application.

(ii) Refusing or failing to show a particular dwelling or home in a particular subdivision.

(iii) Directing persons only to areas populated by those of similar race, color, religion, or national origin when housing is available in other areas.

(iv) Representing unsold dwellings or sites as sold to prospective buyers.

(2) Requiring applicants for services to meet different terms or conditions because of their race, color, religion, or national origin; for example, requiring larger rents or downpayments from minority applicants.

(3) Including in any advertising either directly or through visual representation a preference for applicants of a particular race or ethnic origin.

(i) Words indicative of the race or ethnic background of the dwelling or landlord such as "White private home," or "all Black subdivision," may not be used in advertising housing financed or to be financed by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(ii) Selection of advertising media and the areas to be covered by any advertising must be made to reach potential applicants of all races or ethnic origins.
