
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart E - Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 1901.204 Compliance reviews.
######## Type of review.

(2)Compliance reviews may be completed in connection with regular supervision visits to organizations and must include an inspection of the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354-financed facility. Before determining that the recipient is or is not complying with the provisions in Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-4, the Compliance Review Officer will:

(i) Observe the recipient's records, including records on the present membership by race, the handling of applications for use of the facility, the user rates and membership fees or dues, and the facility's operating regulations.

(ii) Determine if the recipient advertises for members or users. If so, observe the effectiveness of the recipient's methods of advertising the availability of the facility to the public, and especially the effectiveness of this advertising in reaching the minority community.

(iii) Interview organization officials, members, and employees. In reviews of recipients of Technical Assistance grants, members of the self-help housing groups should be interviewed to determine the way in which they were recruited.

(iv) Interview informed local community leaders, including minority leaders, if any to determine if the facility is operating without discrimination because of race, color, or national origin.
