
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart E - Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 1901.205 Nondiscrimination in construction financed with FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 loan or grant.
######## Discrimination complaints.

(g)(1) Complaints alleging discriminatory acts may be filed directly with the appropriate regional office of USDL (see exhibit E) or with the County Supervisor or the State Director for subsequent forwarding to the above address, by any employee or applicant for employment with a contractor or subcontractor.

(2) Each complaint must be in writing and signed by the complainant (The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official receiving the complaint will assist complainant when necessary). The complaint will include:

(i) Name, address, and telephone number of complainant.

(ii) Name and address of the person allegedly discriminating.

(iii) Date and place of the discrimination.

(iv) Description of the discrimination.

(v) Any other information that will assist in investigating and resolving the complaint.

(3) Complaints must be filed not later than 180 days after the alleged act unless the State Director extends the time, for good cause shown by the complainant.
