
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart E - Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
####### Exhibit D to Subpart E of Part 1901 - Goals and Timetables for Minorities and Women

The preamble to regulations establishing a new part 60-4 to 41 CFR chapter 60 published at 43 FR 14888-14894, April 7, 1978, states that OFCCP contemplates proposing standards and goals for minorities within the very near future. Until that notice has been proposed and final action taken, construction contractors and subcontractors will continue to be subject to the goals and timetables for minority utilization on Federal and federally assisted construction existing now under Executive order 11246. Such goals are published in appendix B.

Now, therefore, based on the foregoing and 41 CFR part 60-4, each contracting agency, each applicant, and each contractor shall include the appropriate goal set forth in appendix A and appendix B in all invitations for bids or other solicitations for federally involved construction contracts in excess of $10,000. The goals in appendix A hereby are established on a nationwide basis as the standards for female utilization for all trades.

Appendix B established the goals for minority utilization which shall be applicable for the respective areas set forth in appendix B.

Appendix A and appendix B shall be effective with respect to transactions for which the invitations for bids or other solicitations or amendments thereto are sent, on or after May 8, 1978.

March 28, 1978.

The following goals and timetables for female utilization shall be included in all Federal and federally assisted construction contracts and subcontracts in excess of $10,000. The goals are applicable to the contractor's aggregate on-site construction workforce whether or not part of that workforce is performing work on a Federal or federally assisted construction contract or subcontract.

Goals for Women apply nationwide.

Until further notice, the following goals and timetables for minority utilization shall be included in all Federal or federally assisted construction contracts and subcontracts in excess of $10,000 to be performed in the respective covered areas. The goals are applicable to the contractor's aggregate on-site construction workforce whether or not part of that workforce is performing work on a Federal or federally assisted construction contract or subcontract.
