
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart F - Procedures for the Protection of Historical and Archeological Properties
####### ยง 1901.254 Scope.
######## Undertakings presumed not to require a historical and archeological assessment.

(b)The following undertakings are generally presumed to involve nonfederally owned lands and not to have an effect on properties of historical and archeological value and will therefore not usually require a historical and archeological assessment. However, when the State Director or County Supervisor finds or has had communication or obtains information from a recognized historical and archeological authority that a specific undertaking may have an effect on a property included or eligible for inclusion in the National Register, a historical and archeological assessment will be made.

(1) Loans to farmers and ranchers in rural areas for the purchase, development, and operation of farms and ranches.

(2) Loans to individual families in rural areas for the purchase, construction, or improvement of single family residences.

(3) Loans and grants for multiple family housing projects of not more than 24 family dwelling units.

(4) Subdivision plans submitted for approval having 24 or less building sites.

(5) Loans to farmers, ranchers, and other rural residents to develop land, water, and other related resources for increased production of food and other crops, improved pastures, feed crops, water facilities for livestock, and improved habitats for fish and wildlife.

(6) Emergency and disaster loans to farmers, ranchers and other rural residents in declared or designated areas as a result of a major or national disaster.
