
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart F - Procedures for the Protection of Historical and Archeological Properties
####### ยง 1901.255 Historical and archeological assessments.

(a) The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official, normally the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 County Supervisor, who receives a preapplication or application for loan or grant assistance on an undertaking that may have an effect on HA properties will, as part of the process, take the following actions:

(1) Carefully review the State supplements issued by the State Director pursuant to ยง 1901.262(a) to determine whether there are any properties within the project area that appear in the National Register.

(2) Document the following:

(i) A brief narrative report of the findings and conclusions of an on-site reconnaissance of the project area.

(ii) Any "in-house" knowledge of known or suspected HA sites in the project area.

(3) Submit the information outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director as part of the preapplication or application.

(b) Upon receipt of the preapplication/application the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director will, as a concurrent part of the preapplication/application review, prepare a historical and archeological assessment of the undertaking. In making the assessment the State Director will consider information from the following sources:

(1) State and Regional Clearinghouse comments.

(2) Information submitted by the County Supervisor pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(3) Factual comments or recommendations of the SHPO or other responsible Federal, State, or local officials.

(4) Any other reliable information concerning properties in the project area having HA significance.

(c) Upon completion of the preapplication or application review, the State Director will take the following actions:

(1) When his assessment indicates that no properties of HA significance will be effected by the proposed undertaking, he will proceed with processing of the preapplication or application.

(2) When his assessment indicates that there are properties included in the National Register that may be effected by the proposed undertaking, he will in consultation with the SHPO, the applicant and its representatives, and other appropriate historical and archeological authorities plan appropriate measures to avoid or mitigate any adverse effects. He will also notify the Advisory Council and Secretary of the Interior of the proposed undertaking, and of its possible effect on the National Register properties and provide them with a copy of the proposed plan in order to afford them a reasonable opportunity for comment. Comments that are received with 45 calendar days of notification in accordance with the requirements for comment as outlined in section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, will be considered in further development of the undertaking.

(3) When his assessment indicates that there are properties thay may be eligible for inclusion in the National Register, based on his application of the National Register criteria, he will request the Regional Director of the National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, Attention: Interagency Archeological Services, in writing, to cause a survey of the project area to be made to determine the significance of the properties in accordance with section 3(b) of Pub. L. 93-291. The State Director's letter to the Regional Director should request a response within 45 calendar days as to whether the National Park Service intends to cause a survey to be made, declines to undertake a survey, or that a survey is not warranted based on available data. The addresses of the Regional Offices of the National Park Service are listed in exhibit A of this subpart. If no response is received within the 45-day period, the State Director will proceed as outlined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section.

(4) The State Director will cooperate fully with the National Park Service in the conduct of a survey should one be undertaken to assure that:

(i) The professional archeologist/historian conducting the survey provides his written opinion as to the eligibility of any identified properties for inclusion in the National Register.

(ii) When the professional archeologist/historian recommends recovery, protection, or preservation of identified properties, the National Park Service is requested to undertake this project.

(5) When the survey made in paragraph (c)(3) of this section does not identify any historical and archeological properties that may be eligible for inclusion in the National Register, or the National Park Service is not going to undertake activity pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, the State Director, after consultation with the SHPO and the National Park Service, will document the findings and proceed with processing of the application.

(6) When the survey identifies properties that may be eligible for inclusion in the National Register, the State Director will request the SHPO to proceed with the nomination of such properties. The State Director will then proceed as outlined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for any properties accepted for inclusion in the National Register.

(7) When the National Park Service declines to cause a survey to be made or determines that one is not warranted, the State Director will document such facts and proceed with processing of the application.
