
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart F - Procedures for the Protection of Historical and Archeological Properties
####### ยง 1901.254 Scope.
######## Undertakings requiring a historical and archeological assessment.

(a)Although the following undertakings are presumed to involve nonfederally owned lands, they may have an effect on properties having HA significance and, therefore, will require a historical and archeological assessment:

(1) Loans and grants for the development of business and industry including guaranteed loans.

(2) Loans and grants for multiple family housing projects of 25 or more dwelling units.

(3) Subdivision plans submitted for approval having 25 or more building sites.

(4) Loans and grants in rural areas to construct, enlarge, extend, or otherwise improve:

(i) Community water, sanitary sewage, solid waste disposal, and storm waste water disposal systems.

(ii) Other essential community facilities such as fire and rescue, health, safety, public buildings, schools, transportation, traffic, and law enforcement.

(5) Loans to develop community irrigation, drainage, and other soil and water conservation and use facilities.

(6) Loans to acquire and develop grazing land for livestock of an association of members.

(7) Loans in areas designated by the Soil Conservation Service (SCS), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), to conserve and develop natural resources and to contribute to economic improvement of the area.

(8) Loans to protect and develop land and water resources in small watersheds.

(9) Loans to permit Indian tribes to buy land within their reservations.
