
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart K - Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes
####### ยง 1901.506 Book-entry procedure for Rural Development securities - issuance and redemption of certificate by Reserve bank.
######## Scope and effect of book-entry procedure.

(b)(1) A Reserve bank as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development may apply the book-entry procedure provided for in this subpart to any Rural Development securities which have been or are hereafter deposited for any purpose in accounts with it in its individual capacity under terms and conditions which indicate that the Reserve bank will continue to maintain such deposit accounts in its individual capacity, notwithstanding application of the book-entry procedure to such securities. This paragraph shall be applicable but not limited to Rural Development securities deposited:

(i) As collateral pledged to a Reserve bank (in its individual capacity) for advances by it.

(ii) By a member bank for its sole account.

(iii) By a member bank held for the account of its customers.

(iv) In connection with deposits in a member bank of funds of States, Municipalities, or other political subdivisions.

(v) In connection with the performance of an obligation or duty under Federal, State, Municipal, or local law, or judgments or decrees of courts.

(2) The application of the book-entry procedure under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not detract from or adversely affect the relationships that would otherwise exist between a Reserve bank in its individual capacity and its depositors concerning any deposit under this paragraph. Whenever the book-entry procedure is applied to such Rural Development securities, the Reserve bank is authorized to take all action necessary in respect of the book-entry procedure to enable such Reserve bank in its individual capacity to perform its obligation as depositary with respect to such Rural Development securities.

(3) A Reserve bank as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development may apply the book-entry procedure to Rural Development securities deposited as collateral pledged to the United States under Treasury Department Circular Nos. 92 and 176, both as revised and amended, and may apply the book-entry procedure, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to any other Rural Development securities deposited with a Reserve bank as fiscal agent of the United States.

(4) Any person having an interest in Rural Development securities which are deposited with a Reserve bank (in either its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States) for any purpose shall be deemed to have consented to their conversion to book-entry Rural Development securities pursuant to the provisions of this subpart and in the manner and under the procedure prescribed by the Reserve bank.

(5) No deposits shall be accepted under this section on or after the date of maturity or call of Rural Development securities.
