
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart K - Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes
####### ยง 1901.506 Book-entry procedure for Rural Development securities - issuance and redemption of certificate by Reserve bank.
######## Transfer or pledge.

(c)(1) A transfer or pledge of book-entry Rural Development securities to a Reserve bank (in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States), or to the United States, or to any transferee or pledgee eligible to maintain an appropriate book-entry account in its name with a Reserve bank under this subpart is effected and perfected, notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, by a Reserve bank making an appropriate entry in its records of the securities transferred or pledged. The making of such an entry in the records of a Reserve bank shall:

(i) Have the effect of a delivery in bearer form of definitive Rural Development securities.

(ii) Have the effect of a taking of delivery by the transferee or pledgee.

(iii) Constitute the transferee or pledgee a holder.

(iv) If a pledge, effect a perfected security interest therein in favor of the pledgee. A transfer or pledge of book-entry Rural Development securities effected under this paragraph shall have priority over any transfer, pledge, or other interest, theretofore or thereafter effected or perfected under paragraph (c)(2) of this section or any other manner.

(2) A transfer or pledge of transferable Rural Development securities, or any interest therein, which is maintained by a Reserve bank (in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States) in a book-entry account under this subpart, including securities in book-entry form under ยง 1901.506(b)(1)(iii) is effected, and a pledge is perfected by any means that would be effective under applicable law to effect a transfer or to effect and perfect a pledge of Rural Development securities, or any interest therein, if the securities were maintained by the Reserve bank in bearer definitive form. For purposes of transfer or pledge hereunder, book-entry Rural Development securities maintained by a Reserve bank shall, notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, be deemed to be maintained in bearer definitive form. A Reserve bank maintaining book-entry Rural Development securities, either in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States, is not a bailee for the purposes of notification of pledges of these securities under this paragraph, or a third person in possession for the purposes of acknowledgment of transfers thereof under this paragraph. Where transferable Rural Development securities are recorded on the books of a depositary (a bank, banking institution, financial firm, or similar party, which regularly accepts in the course of its business Rural Development securities as a custodial service for customers, and maintains accounts in the names of such customers reflecting ownership of or interest in such securities) for account of the pledgor or transferor thereof and such securities are on deposit with a Reserve bank in a book-entry account hereunder, such depositary shall, for purposes of perfecting a pledge of such securities or effecting delivery of such securities to a purchaser under applicable provisions of law, be the bailee to which notification of the pledge of the securities may be given or the third person in possession from which acknowledgment of the holding of the securities for the purchaser may be obtained. A Reserve bank will not accept notice or advice of a transfer or pledge effected or perfected under this paragraph and any such notice or advice shall have no effect. A Reserve bank may continue to deal with its depositor in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, notwithstanding any transfer or pledge effected or perfected under this paragraph.

(3) No filing or recording with a public recording office or officer shall be necessary or effective with respect to any transfer or pledge of book-entry Rural Development securities or any interest therein.

(4) A Reserve bank shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions, convert book-entry Rural Development securities into definitive Rural Development securities and deliver them in accordance with such instructions. No such conversion shall affect existing interest in such Rural Development securities.

(5) A transfer of book-entry Rural Development securities within a Federal Reserve Bank shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the Reserve bank not inconsistent with this subpart. The transfer of book-entry Rural Development securities by a Reserve bank may be made through a telegraphic transfer procedure.

(6) All requests for transfer or withdrawal must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of the securities.
