
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart K - Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes
####### ยง 1901.507 Certificates of beneficial ownership by the Rural Development Finance Office.
######## Registration.

(b)(1) The registration used must express the actual ownership of a certificate and may not restrict the authority of the owner to dispose of it in any manner. Rural Development reserves the right to treat the registration as conclusive ownership. Request for registration must be clear, accurate, and complete, and include the appropriate taxpayer identifying number or social security number.

(2) The registration of all certificates owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and, in case of fiduciary, the description of the fiduciary capacity. Individual owners should be designated by the names by which they are ordinarily known or under which they do business, preferably including at least one full given name. The name of an individual may be preceded by an applicable title, as, for example "Mrs.", "Mr.", "Miss", "Ms.", "Dr.", or "Rev.", or followed by a designation such as "M.D.", "D.D.", "Sr.", or "Jr.", Any other similar suffix should be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. The address should include, where appropriate, the name and street, route, or any other location feature, and zip code.

(3) If an erroneously inscribed certificate is received, it should not be altered in any respect. Rural Development should be given full particulars about the error and asked to furnish instructions.
