
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart K - Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes
####### ยง 1901.506 Book-entry procedure for Rural Development securities - issuance and redemption of certificate by Reserve bank.
######## Issuance and redemption.

(h)(1) In those instances where the Reserve bank is acting as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development, the following subparts of Treasury Department Circular No. 300 (31 CFR part 306), so far as applicable, shall apply to such certificates.

(i) Subpart B, Registration.

(ii) Subpart C, Transfers, Exchanges and Reissues.

(iii) Subpart D, Redemption or Payment.

(iv) Subpart E, Interest.

(v) Subpart G, Assignments of Registered Securities-General.

(vi) Subpart F, Assignments by or in Behalf of Individuals.

(vii) Subpart H, Assignments in Behalf of Estates of Deceased Owners.

(viii) Subpart I, Assignments by or in Behalf of Trustees and Similar Fiduciaries.

(ix) Subpart J, Assignments in Behalf of Private or Public Organizations.

(x) Subpart K, Attorneys in Fact.

(xi) Subpart L, Transfer Through Judicial Proceedings.

(xii) Subpart M, Requests for Suspension of Transactions.

(xiii) Subpart N, Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, or Defacement of Securities.
