
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart K - Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes
####### ยง 1901.507 Certificates of beneficial ownership by the Rural Development Finance Office.
######## Interest.

(3)The interest on Rural Development certificates accrues and is payable annually. A full interest period does not include the day on which the last preceding interest became due, but does include the day on which the next succeeding interest payment is due. Certificates will cease to bear interest on the date of their maturity. The interest on registered certificates is payable by checks drawn on the Treasurer of the United States to the order of the registered owners, except as otherwise provided in this section. Rural Development prepares the interest checks in advance of the interest payment date and ordinarily mails them in time to reach the addressees on that date. Interest on a registered certificate which has not matured and which is presented for any transaction when the books for that certificate are closed will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record. On receipt of notice of the death or incompetency of an individual named as registered owner, a change in the name or in the status of a partnership, corporation, or unincorporated association, the removal, resignation, succession, or death of a fiduciary or trustee, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending receipt and approval of evidence showing who is entitled to receive the interest checks. If the inscriptions on certificates do not clearly identify the owners, delivery of interest checks may be withheld pending reissue of the certificates in the correct registration, except as provided in this section. The final installment of interest will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record on presentation and surrender of the certificate for redemption. To assure timely delivery of interest checks, owners should promptly notify Rural Development of any change of address.
