
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1901 - PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
###### Subpart K - Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes
####### ยง 1901.508 Servicing of insured notes outstanding with investors.
######## Sale of insured notes by private holders to private buyers.

(b)(1) On receipt of notice from a private holder of intention to assign an insured note, the Director, Finance Office, will send the holder:

(i) Form RD 471-7 "Notice and Acknowledgment of Sale of Insured or Guaranteed Loan."

(ii) A statement of the unpaid principal. If requested the Director, Finance Office, will furnish a statement of account instead of or in addition to a statement of the unpaid principal.

(iii) Appropriate information on how to complete the assignment.

(2) If the Director, Finance Office, is informed that an insured note has been assigned and Rural Development is requested to recognize the assignment, the Director, Finance Office, will send the assignor Form RD 471-7, with directions for its execution.

(3) On receipt of Form RD 471-7 properly executed by the assignor, the Director, Finance Office, will complete and execute the acknowledgment section of the form. The Director, Finance Office, will retain the original of the form, have two facsimile copies made and send one to the assignor, and one to the assignee. For any correction or other change to be made in the record of the name or address of a private holder, or of a designated agent of a private holder, a request will be made to Rural Development in writing.

(4) As of the date of the acknowledgment, executed by the Director, Finance Office, on Form RD 471-7 the Director, Finance Office, will transfer the insured note from the assignor to the assignee as the insured holder on the records of Rural Development. The name and address of the assignee will be recorded by Rural Development exactly as they appear on Form RD 471-7.

(5) Payments transmitted by Rural Development on or after the acknowledgment date shown on Form RD 471-7 will be transmitted to the assignee. The Director, Finance Office, will give notice to the assignor and the assignee of any payments transmitted by Rural Development to the assignor before the acknowledgment date and after either the date of sale, or the date of the statement of account, whichever is earlier. However, Rural Development will not be liable for any failure to give such notice.
