
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1902 - SUPERVISED BANK ACCOUNTS
###### Subpart A - Supervised Bank Accounts of Loan, Grant, and Other Funds
####### ยง 1902.1 General.

This subpart prescribes the policies and procedures in establishing and using supervised bank accounts, and in placing Multi-Family Housing (MFH) reserve accounts in supervised bank accounts. 7 CFR part 2018, subpart D, provides the procedures Servicing Officials should follow in ordering loan and grant disbursements. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.

(a) Borrowers referred to in this subpart include both loan and grant recipients. They are referred to as "depositors" in the deposit agreements hereinafter described. References herein and in deposit agreements to "other lenders" include lenders and grantors other than Rural Development.

(b) Banks and savings associations referred to in this subpart are those in which deposits are insured by the FDIC.

(c) Credit unions referred to in this subpart are those in which deposits are insured by the NCUA.

(d) Financial institutions as referred to in this subpart include banks, savings associations, and credit unions which are covered by the proper insurance coverage cited in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(e) Supervised bank accounts referred to in this subpart are bank, savings association, or credit union accounts established through deposit agreements entered into between the borrower, the United States of America acting through Rural Development, and the Financial Institution on Form RD 402-1, "Deposit Agreement".

(f) Form RD 402-1 provides for the deposit of funds in a supervised bank account to ensure the performance of the borrower's obligation to Rural Development in connection with a loan and/or grant.

(g) "Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement" (Exhibit B of this subpart), provides for the deposit of loan or grant funds that are not required for immediate disbursement in specified interest-bearing deposits, and it is executed in conjunction with Form RD 402-1.

(h) Servicing officials referred to in this instruction include county supervisors, district directors, local supervisors, area supervisors, and National Office grant program managers.

(i) Automated systems referred to in this instruction refers to the loan accounting systems; e.g., Program Loan Accounting System, Automated Multi-Housing Accounting System, and Dedicated Loan Origination System, from which loan and grant disbursements are ordered.

(j) This subpart includes the National Office directly servicing a grant recipient or recipient of cooperative agreement funds.
