
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1902 - SUPERVISED BANK ACCOUNTS
###### Subpart A - Supervised Bank Accounts of Loan, Grant, and Other Funds
####### ยง 1902.7 Pledging collateral for deposit of funds in supervised bank accounts.

(a) Funds in excess of the maximum amount insurable by the Federal government, per financial institution, deposited for borrowers in supervised bank accounts, must be secured by pledging acceptable collateral with the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) in an amount not less than the excess. If the supervised bank account is a joint account, any amount over the maximum amount insurable by the federal government must be collateralized.

(b) As soon as it is determined that the loan will be approved and the applicant has selected or tentatively selected a financial institution for the supervised bank account, the Servicing Official will contact the financial institution to determine:

(1) That the financial institution selected is insured by the FDIC (banks and savings associations) or NCUA (credit unions).

(2) Whether the financial institution is willing to pledge collateral with the FRB under 31 CFR part 202 (Treasury Circular 176) to the extent necessary to secure the amount of funds being deposited in excess of the FDIC or NCUA insurance limit.

(3) If the financial institution is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, it will be necessary for the financial institution to pledge the securities with a correspondent bank who is a member of the System. The correspondent bank should contact the FRB informing them they are holding securities pledged for the supervised bank account under 31 CFR part 202 (Treasury Circular 176).

(c) If the financial institution agrees to pledge collateral, the Servicing Official should complete RD Form Letter 1902-A-2, "Designated Financial Institution-Collateral Pledge", in an original and two copies: The original for the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division; the first copy for the State Office; and the second copy for the Servicing Official. The Rural Development Form Letter 1902-A-2 should be forwarded to the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division, at least 30 days before the date of loan closing.

(d) The National Office, Policy and Analysis Division, will arrange for the financial institution under its designation as a depository and financial agent of the U.S. Government to pledge the requested collateral.

(e) If, two days before loan closing, the local Rural Development office which requested the collateral has not received notification from the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division, that collateral has been pledged, contact should be made with the financial institution to ascertain whether they have pledged collateral with their local FRB under 31 CFR part 202 (Treasury Circular 176). If the financial institution has pledged collateral, the local Rural Development office should contact the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division, who will follow-up with the local FRB concerning the collateral.

(f) When the amount of deposit in the supervised bank account has been reduced to a point where the financial institution desires part or all of the collateral released, it should contact the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division. The local Rural Development office will be contacted for release authorization. The authorization release will be made through the local FRB, with notification to the financial institution. The local Rural Development office may also request release through the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division.
