
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1902 - SUPERVISED BANK ACCOUNTS
###### Subpart A - Supervised Bank Accounts of Loan, Grant, and Other Funds
####### ยง 1902.9 Deposits.
######## Deposit by Rural Development personnel.

(a)(1) Checks made payable solely to the Federal Government or any Agency thereof, and a joint check when the Treasurer of the United States is a joint payee, may not be deposited in a supervised bank account.

(2) Rural Development personnel will accept funds for deposit in a borrower's supervised bank account ONLY in the form of: A check or money order endorsed by the borrower "For Deposit Only;" a check drawn to the order of the financial institution in which the funds are to be deposited; a loan check drawn on the U.S. Treasury; or a Rural Development electronic funds transfer disbursement.

(i) A joint check that is payable to the borrower and Rural Development will be endorsed by the Servicing Official as provided in 7 CFR part 1951, subpart B, Exhibit B, section 4.

(ii) Ordinarily, when deposits are made from funds which are received as the result of consent or subordination agreements or assignments of income, the check should be drawn to the order of the financial institution in which the supervised bank account is established or jointly to the order of the borrower and Rural Development. All such checks should be delivered or mailed to the Servicing Office.

(3) If direct or insured loan funds or borrower contributions are to be deposited in a supervised bank account, such funds will be deposited on the date of loan closing after it has been determined that the loan can be closed. However, if it is impossible to deposit the funds on the day the loan is closed due to reasons such as distance from the financial institution or banking hours, the funds will be deposited on the first banking day following the date of loan closing.

(4) Grant funds will be deposited when such funds are delivered.

(5) When funds from any source in the form of cash, check, or money order are deposited by Rural Development personnel in a supervised bank account, a deposit slip will be prepared in an original and two copies with distribution as follows: Original to the financial institution, one copy to the borrower, and one copy for the borrower's case folder. The name of the borrower, the sources of funds, "Subject to Rural Development Countersignature" and, if applicable, the account number, will be entered on each deposit slip.

(6) A loan or grant check drawn on the U.S. Treasury may be deposited in a supervised bank account without endorsement by the borrower when it will facilitate delivery of the check and is acceptable to the financial institution. The borrower will be notified immediately of any deposit made and will be furnished a copy of the deposit slip. When a deposit of this nature is made, the following endorsement will be used:

(7) Accounts established through the use of Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement will be in the name of the depositor and the Government.
