
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.4 Definitions.
######## Identity of interest.

(i)Identity of interest will be construed as existing between the applicant (the party of the first part) and general contractors, architects, engineers, attorneys, subcontractors, material suppliers, or equipment lessors (parties of the second part) under any of the following conditions:

(1) When there is any financial interest of the party of the first part in the party of the second part. The providing of normal professional services by architects, engineers, attorneys or accountants with a client-professional relationship shall not constitute an identity of interest.

(2) When one or more of the officers, directors, stockholders or partners of the party of the first part is also an officer, director, stockholder, or partner of the party of the second part.

(3) When any officer, director, stockholder or partner of the party of the first part has any financial interest whatsoever in the party of the second part.

(4) Between the spouse, significant other, relatives, and step-relatives of the principal owners of the party of the first part and its management, such as Grandmother, Aunt, Daughter, Granddaughter, Grandfather, Uncle, Son, Grandson, Mother, Sister, Niece, Cousin, Father, Brother, Nephew;

(5) When the party of the second part advances any funds to the party of the first part.

(6) When the party of the second part provides and pays on behalf of the party of the first part the cost of any legal services, architectural services or engineering services other than those of a surveyor, general superintendent, or engineer employed by a general contractor in connection with obligations under the construction contract.

(7) When the party of the second part takes stock or any interest in the party of the first part as part of the consideration to be paid them.

(8) When there exist or come into being any side deals, agreements, contracts or undertakings entered into thereby altering, amending, or cancelling any of the required closing documents except as approved by the Agency.

(9) An identity of interest will also exist when another party can significantly influence the management or operating policies of the transacting parties or if it has an ownership interest in one of the transacting parties and can significantly influence the other to an extent that one or more of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests.
