
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.5 Planning development work.
######## Construction.

(d)(1) All new buildings to be constructed and all alterations and repairs to buildings will be planned to conform with good construction practices. The Agency Manual of Acceptable Practices (MAP) Vol. 4930.1 (available in any Agency office), provides suggestions and illustrative clarifications of design and construction methods which are generally satisfactory in most areas. All improvements to the property will conform to applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations related to the safety and sanitation of buildings; standards referenced in Appendices C through F of HUD Handbook 4910.1, Minimum Property Standards for Housing; Thermal Performance Construction Standards contained in exhibit D of this subpart and, when required, to certain other development standards described below.

(i) The development standard applicable to a proposal will be selected by the loan applicant or recipient of an RH Conditional Commitment in accordance with the following. The standard selected must:

(A) Relate to the type(s) of building proposed.

(B) Meet or exceed any applicable local or state laws, ordinances, codes and regulations.

(C) Include all referenced codes and standards.

(D) Exclude inapplicable administrative requirements.
