
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.5 Planning development work.
######## 2

() Six months or less, will comply with ยง 1924.5(d)(1)(vi)(A)(3).

(vii) Farm service buildings should be designed and constructed for adaptation to the local area. In designing and locating farm service buildings, consideration will be given to practices recommended by agriculture colleges, the Extension Service (ES), Soil Conservation Service (SCS) and other reliable sources.

(2) Drawings, specifications, and estimates will fully describe the work. Technical data, tests, or engineering evaluations may be required to support the design of the development. The "Guide for Drawings and Specifications," exhibit C of this subpart, describes the drawings and specifications that are to be included in the application for building construction, and subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter describes the drawings that should be included for development of building sites. The specific development standard being used, if required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be identified on all drawings and specifications.

(3) Materials acceptance shall be the same as described in paragraph X of exhibit B to this subpart.

(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, new building construction and additions shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the earthquake (seismic) requirements of the applicable Agency's development standard (building code). The analysis and design of structural systems and components shall be in accordance with applicable requirements of an acceptable model building code.

(i) Agricultural buildings that are not intended for human habitation are exempt from these earthquake (seismic) requirements.

(ii) Single family conventional light wood frame dwellings of two stories or 35 feet in height maximum shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the 1992 Council of American Building Officials (CABO) One and Two Family Dwelling Code or the latest edition.

(iii) Single family housing of masonry design and townhouses of wood frame construction and additions financed (either directly or through a guarantee) under title V of the Housing Act of 1949 are recommended to be designed and constructed in accordance with the earthquake (seismic) requirements of one of the building codes that provides an equivalent level of safety to that contained in the latest edition of the National Earthquake Hazard Reduction Program's (NEHRP) Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Building (NEHRP Provisions).

(iv) Acknowledgment of compliance with the applicable seismic safety requirements for new construction will be contained in the certification of final plans and specification on the appropriate Agency Form.
