
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.5 Planning development work.
######## Responsibility of the applicant.

(1)(i) The applicant will arrange for obtaining any required technical services from qualified technicians, tradespeople, and recognized plan services, and the applicant will furnish the Agency sufficient information to describe fully the planned development and the manner in which it will be accomplished.

(ii) When items of construction or land development require drawings and specifications, they will be sufficiently complete to avoid any misunderstanding as to extent, kind, and quality of work to be performed. The applicant will provide the Agency with one copy of the drawings and specifications. Approval will be indicated by the applicant and acceptance for the purposes of the loan indicated by the County Supervisor or District Director on all sheets of the drawings and at the end of the specifications, and both instruments will be a part of the loan docket. After the loan is closed, the borrower will retain a conformed copy of the approved drawings and specifications, and provide another conformed copy to the contractor. Items not requiring drawings and specifications may be described in narrative form.

(iii) The Agency will accept final drawings and specifications and any modifications thereof only after the documents have been certified in writing as being in conformance with the applicable development standard if required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Certification is required for all Single Family Housing (SFH) thermal designs (plans, specifications, and calculations).

(A) Certifications may be accepted from individuals or organizations who are trained and experienced in the compliance, interpretation or enforcement of the applicable development standards for drawings and specifications. Plan certifiers may be any of the following:
