
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.5 Planning development work.
######## Land development.

(e)(1) In planning land development, consideration will be given to practices, including energy conservation measures, recommended by agricultural colleges, ES, SCS or other reliable sources. All land and water development will conform to applicable laws, ordinances, zoning and other applicable regulations including those related to soil and water conservation and pollution abatement. The County Supervisor or District Director also will encourage the applicant to use any cost-sharing and planning assistance that may be available through agricultural conservation programs.

(2) Site and subdivision planning and development must meet the requirements of subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.

(3) Plans and descriptive material will fully describe the work.

(4) The site planning design, development, installation and set-up of manufactured home sites, rental projects and subdivisions shall meet the requirements of exhibit J of this subpart and subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.

(i) Plans for land leveling, irrigation, or drainage should include a map of the area to be improved showing the existing conditions with respect to soil, topography, elevations, depth of topsoil, kind of subsoil, and natural drainage, together with the proposed land development.

(ii) When land development consists of, or includes, the conservation and use of water for irrigation or domestic purposes, the information submitted to the County Supervisor will include a statement as to the source of the water supply, right to the use of the water, and the adequacy and quality of the supply.
