
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.5 Planning development work.
######## Surplus structures and use or sale of timber, sand, or stone.

(g)In planning the development, the applicant and the County Supervisor or District Director should, when practicable, plan to use salvage from old buildings, timber, sand, gravel, or stone from the property. The borrower may sell surplus buildings, timber, sand, gravel, or stone that is not to be used in performing planned development and use net proceeds to pay costs of performing planned development work. In such a case:

(1) An agreement will be recorded in the narrative of Form RD 1924-1 which as a minimum will:

(i) Identify the property to be sold, the estimated net proceeds to be received, and the approximate date by which the property will be sold.

(ii) Provide that the borrower will deposit the net proceeds in the supervised bank account and apply any funds remaining after the development is complete as an extra payment on the loan, or in accordance with ยง 1965.13(f) of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter for farm program loans.

(2) The agreement will be considered by the Government as modifying the mortgage contract to the extent of authorizing and requiring the Government to release the identified property subject to the conditions stated in the agreement without payment or other consideration at the time of release, regardless of whether or not the mortgage specifically refers to Form RD 1924-1 or the agreement to release.

(3) If the Agency loan will be secured by a junior lien, all prior lienholders must give written consent to the proposed sale and the use of the net proceeds before the loan is approved.

(4) Releases requested by the borrower or the buyer will be processed in accordance with applicable release procedures in 7 CFR part 3550, as appropriate.
