
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.5 Planning development work.
######## Responsibility of the County Supervisor or District Director.

(2)In accordance with program regulations for loans and grants they are required to process, the County Supervisor or District Director, for the sole benefit of the Agency, will:

(i) Visit each farm or site on which the development is proposed. For an FO loan, the County Supervisor and the applicant will determine the items of development necessary to put the farm in a livable and operable condition at the outset. Prepare Form RD 1924-1, when applicable in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert (FMI) for the form, after a complete understanding has been reached between the applicant and the County Supervisor regarding the development to be accomplished, including the dates each item of development will be started and completed.

(ii) Notify the loan or grant applicant in writing immediately if, after reviewing the preliminary proposal and inspecting the site, the proposal is not acceptable. If the proposal is acceptable, an understanding will be reached with the applicant concerning the starting date for each item of development.

(iii) Discuss with the applicant the Agency requirements with respect to good construction and land development practices.

(iv) Advise the applicant regarding drawings, specifications, cost estimates, and other related material which the applicant must submit to the Agency forreview before the loan can be developed. Advise the applicant of the information necessary in the drawings, how the cost estimates should be prepared, the number of sets of drawings, specifications, and cost estimates required, and the necessity for furnishing such information promptly. Advise the applicant that the Agency will provide appropriate specification forms, Form RD 1924-2, "Description of Materials," and Form RD 1924-3, "Service Building Specifications." The applicant may, however, use other properly prepared specifications.

(v) Advise the applicant regarding publications, plans, planning aids, engineering data, and other technical advice and assistance available through local, state, and Federal agencies, and private individuals and organizations.

(vi) Review the information furnished by the applicant to determine the completeness of the plans, adequacy of the cost estimates, suitability and soundness of the proposed development.

(vii) When appropriate, offer suggestions as to how drawings and specifications might be altered to improve the facility and better serve the needs of the applicant. The County Supervisor or District Director may assist the applicant in making revisions to the drawings. When appropriate, the contract documents will be forwarded to the State architect/engineer for review. For revisions requiring technical determinations that the Agency is not able to make, the applicant will be requested to obtain additional technical assistance.

(viii) Provide the applicant with a written list of changes required in the contract documents. The applicant will submit two complete revised (as requested) sets of contract documents, for approval. On one set, the County Supervisor or District Director will indicate acceptance on each sheet of the drawings, and on the cover of the specifications and all other contract documents. At least the date and the initials of the approval official must be shown. On projects where a consulting architect or engineer has been retained, this acceptance will be indicated only after the State Director has given written authorization. The marked set of documents shall be available at the job site at all times for review by the Agency. The second set will become part of the loan docket.

(ix) Review the proposed method of doing the work and determine whether the work can be performed satisfactorily under the proposed method.

(x) Instruct the applicant not to incur any debts prior to loan closing for materials or labor or make any expenditures for such purposes with the expectation of being reimbursed from loan funds.

(xi) Instruct the applicant not to commence any construction nor cause any supplies or materials to be delivered to the construction site prior to loan closing.

(xii) Under certain conditions prescribed in exhibit H of this subpart, provide the applicant with a copy of the leaflet, "Warning-Lead-Based Paint Hazards," which is attachment 1 of exhibit H (available in any Agency office), and the warning sheet, "Caution Note on Lead-Based Paint Hazard," which is attachment 2 of exhibit H (available in any Agency office).
