
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.5 Planning development work.
######## Review prior to performing development work.

(h)For the sole benefit of the Agency, prior to beginning development work, the County Supervisor or District Director will review planned development with the borrower. Adequacy of the drawings and specifications as well as the estimates will be checked to make sure the work can be completed within the time limits previously agreed upon and with available funds. Items and quantities of any materials the borrower has agreed to furnish will be checked and dates by which each item of development should be started will be checked in order that the work may be completed on schedule. If any changes in the plans and specifications are proposed, they should be within the general scope of the work as originally planned. Changes must be approved and processed in accordance with ยง 1924.10 of this subpart. The appropriate procedure for performing development should be explained to the borrower. Copies of RD forms that will be used during the period of construction should be given to the borrower. The borrower should be advised as to the purpose of each form and at what period during construction each form will be used.
