
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.6 Performing development work.
######## Obtaining bids and selecting a contractor.

(10)(i) The applicant may select a contractor and negotiate a contract or contact several contractors and request each to submit a bid. For complex construction projects, refer also to ยง 1924.13(e) of this subpart.

(ii) When a price has already been negotiated by an applicant and a contractor, the County Supervisor, District Director or other appropriate Agency official will review the proposed contract. If the contractor is qualified to perform the development and provide a warranty of the work and the price compares favorably with the cost of similar construction in the area, further negotiation is unnecessary. If the Agency official determines the price is too high or otherwise unreasonable, the applicant will be requested to negotiate further with the contractor. If a reasonable price cannot be negotiated or if the contractor is not qualified, the applicant will be requested to obtain competitive bids.

(iii) When an applicant has a proposed development plan and no contractor in mind, competitive bidding will be encouraged. The applicant should obtain bids from as many qualified contractors, dealers or tradespeople as feasible depending on the method and type of construction.

(iv) If the award of the contract is by competitive bidding, Form RD 1924-5, "Invitation for Bid (Construction Contract)," or another similar invitation bid form containing the requirements of subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter, may be used. All contractors from whom bids are requested should be informed of all conditions of the contract including the time and place of opening bids. Conditions shall not be established which would give preference to a specific bidder or type of bidder. When applicable, copies of Forms RD 1924-6 and RD 400-6, "Compliance Statement," also should be provided to the prospective bidders.
