
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.6 Performing development work.
######## Awarding the contract.

(11)The borrower, with the assistance of the County Supervisor or District Director, will consider the amount of the bids or proposals, and all conditions which were listed in the "Invitation for Bid." On the basis of these considerations, the borrower will select and notify the lowest responsible bidder.

(i) Before work commences, the County Supervisor, District Director or other Agency employee having knowledge of contracts and construction practices will hold a preconstruction conference with the borrower(s), contractor and architect/engineer (if applicable). The purpose of the conference is to reach a mutual understanding of each party's responsibilities under the terms and conditions of the contract documents and the loan agreement during the construction and warranty periods. Form RD 1924-16, "Record of Preconstruction Conference," may be used as a guide for an agenda.

(ii) A summary of the items covered will be entered in the running case record.

(iii) The contract will then be prepared, signed and copies distributed in accordance with the FMI for Form RD 1924-6.

(iv) After a borrower/contractor's contract or subcontract in excess of $10,000 is received in the Agency County or District Office, the responsible Agency official will send within 10 calendar days of the date of the contract or subcontract, a report similar in form and content to exhibit C of subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter to the Area Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, at the applicable address listed in exhibit E, subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter. The report must contain, at least, the following information: contractor's name, address and telephone number; employer's identification number; amount, starting date and planned completion date of the contract; contract number; and city and DOL region of the contract site. The information for this report should be obtained from the contractor when the contract is awarded.
