
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.6 Performing development work.
######## Payments for work done by the contract method.

(12)(i) Payments will be made in accordance with one of the following methods unless prohibited by state statute, in which case the State Director shall issue a State Supplement to this section:

(A) The "One-Lump-Sum" payment method will be used when the payment will be made in one lump-sum for the whole contract.

(B) The "Partial payments not to exceed 60 percent of the value of the work in place" payment method will be used when the contractor does not provide surety bond, a letter of credit, or deposits.

(C) The "Partial payments in the amount of 90 percent of the value of the work in place and of the value of the materials suitably stored at the site" payment method will be used when the contractor provides a surety bond equal to the total contract amount.

(D) The "Partial payments which reflect the portions of the contract amount which is guaranteed" method will be used when the contractor provides surety bonds, a letter of credit, or deposits less than the total amount of the contract in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.

(ii) When Form RD 1924-6 is used, the appropriate payment clause will be checked and the other payment clauses not used will be effectively crossed out.

(iii) When a contract form other than Form RD 1924-6 is used, the payment clause must conform with paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section and the appropriate clause as set forth in Form RD 1924-6.

(iv) The borrower and FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 must take precautionary measures to see that all payments made to the contractor are properly applied against bills for materials and labor procured under the contract. Prior to making any partial payment on any contract where a surety bond is not used, the contractor will be required to furnish the borrower and the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 with a statement showing the total amount owed to date for materials and labor procured under the contract. The contractor also may be required to submit evidence showing that previous partial payments were applied properly. When the borrower and the County Supervisor or District Director have reason to believe that partial payments may not be applied properly, checks may be made jointly to the contractor and persons who furnished materials and labor in connection with the contract.

(v) When partial payments are requested by the contractor and approved by the owner, the amount of the partial payment will be determined by one of the following methods:

(A) Based upon the percentage completed as shown on a recently completed and properly executed Form RD 1924-12, "Inspection Report."

(B) When the structure will be covered by an insured 10-year warranty, the insurer's construction inspector must provide the Agency with any available copies of inspection reports showing percentage of completion immediately after the inspections are completed. To make partial payments when copies of inspection reports are not available, the responsible Agency official will make the inspections or will be guided by the provisions of ยง 1924.6(a)(12)(v)(C) of this subpart. If further assurance is deemed necessary to justify partial payments, the Agency official may make onsite inspections or require additional information.

(C) Based upon an application for payment containing an estimate of the value of work in place which has been prepared by the contractor and accepted by the borrower and the Agency. When the contract provides for partial payments for materials satisfactorily stored at the site, the application for payment may include these items. Prior to receiving the first partial payment, the contractor should be required to submit a list of major subcontractors and suppliers and a schedule of prices or values of the various phases of the work aggregating the total sum of the contract such as excavation, foundations, framing, roofing, siding, mill work, painting, plumbing, heating, electric wiring, etc., made out in such form as agreed upon by the borrower, the Agency, and the contractor. In applying for payments, the contractor should submit a statement based upon this schedule. See exhibit A of this subpart for guidance in reviewing the contractor's schedule of prices and estimating the value of the work in place.
