
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.6 Performing development work.
######## Mutual self-help method.

(c)The mutual self-help method is performance of work by a group of families by mutual labor under the direction of a construction supervisor, as described in 7 CFR part 3550. The ways of doing the work, buying materials, and contracting for special services are like those used for the borrower method. Materials can be bought jointly by the group of families, but payments will be made individually by each family. In the case of RH loans to families being assisted by Self-Help Technical Assistance (TA) grants in accordance with subpart I of part 1944 of this chapter, the County Supervisor may countersign checks for materials and necessary contract work made payable directly to the TA grantee, provided the District Director determines that:

(1) The grantee acts in the same capacity as a construction manager in the group purchase of material and services.

(2) The grantee has an adequate bookkeeping system approved by the District Director to assure that funds in each RH account are properly distributed and maintained.

(3) The grantee receives no compensation in the way of profit or overhead for this service and all discounts and rebates received in connection with the purchase of materials or services are passed on to the participating families.

(4) The grantee has a record-keeping system which shows that the costs of the materials and services were prorated to each borrower's account in relation to the actual material and service used by each borrower.
