
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.8 Development work for modular/panelized housing units.

(a) Exhibit B of this subpart applies to all loans involving modular/panelized housing units.

(b) Complete drawings and specifications will be required as prescribed in exhibit C of this subpart. Each set of drawings will contain the design of the foundation system required for the soil and slope conditions of the particular site on which the modular/panelized house is to be placed.

(c) The manufacturer will provide a certification (exhibit B, attachment 5 of this subpart), stating that the building has been built substantially in accordance with the drawings and specifications. The builder will also provide a certification that the onsite work complies with drawings, specifications, and the applicable development standard (eExhibit B, attachment 5 of this subpart).

(d) Responsibility for field inspections will be in accordance with ยง 1924.9(a) of this subpart. Frequency and timing of inspections will be in accordance with ยง 1924.9(b) of this subpart, except that the Stage 2 inspection should be made during the time and in no case later than two working days after the crews commence work on the site and the house is being erected or placed on the foundation, to determine compliance with the accepted drawings and specifications.

(e) Periodic plant inspections will be performed in accordance with paragraphs II and III of exhibit B of this subpart. Agency employees responsible for inspections in the area in which the manufacturing plant or material supply yard is located will perform such inspections as deemed necessary under paragraph III of exhibit B of this subpart.

(1) Plant inspections will be made if the type construction method used could restrict adequate inspections on the building site.

(2) Plant inspections will be made as often as necessary; however, after initial inspection and acceptance of the unit, only when it appears advisable to ascertain the performance and continuing stability of accepted materials and construction.

(f) Only one contract will be accepted for the completed house on the site owned or to be bought by the borrower. The manufacturer of the house or the manufacturer's agent may be the prime contractor for delivery and erection of the house on the site or a builder may contract with the borrower for the complete house in place on the site. Such contracts should provide that payments will be made only for work in place on the borrower's site.

(g) Payments for modular/panelized units will be made in accordance with the terms of the contract and in compliance with ยง 1924.6(a)(12) of this subpart.
