
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.6 Performing development work.
######## Payment for equipment, materials or lump-sum agreements.

(ii)(A) Before countersigning checks for equipment or materials, the County Supervisor must normally have an invoice from the seller covering the equipment or materials to be purchased. When an invoice is not available at the time the check is issued, an itemized statement of the equipment or materials to be purchased may be substituted until a paid invoice from the seller is submitted, at which time the prepurchase statement may be destroyed.

(B) When an invoice is available at the time the check is drawn, the check will include a reference to the invoice number, the invoice date if unnumbered and, if necessary, the purpose of the expenditure.

(C) The check number and date of payment will be indicated on the appropriate Form RD 1924-11, invoice, itemized statement of equipment or materials and/or lump-sum agreement.

(D) Ordinarily, checks for equipment or materials will be made payable to the seller. Under justifiable circumstances, when the borrower has paid for equipment or materials with personal funds and furnished a paid invoice, the County Supervisor may countersign a check made payable to the borrower for reimbursement of these expenses.

(E) When an invoice includes equipment or materials for more than one item of development, the appropriate part of the cost to be charged against each item of development will be indicated on the invoice by the borrower, with the assistance of the County Supervisor.

(F) Payment made under lump-sum agreements will be made only when all items of equipment and materials have been furnished, labor has been performed as agreed upon, and the work has been accepted by the borrower and the Agency.

(G) Each paid Form RD 1924-11, invoice, itemized statement for equipment or material and/or lump-sum agreement will be given to the borrower in accordance with the FMI.
