
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.9 Inspection of development work.
######## Stage 3.

(iii)The final inspection will be made when all on-site and off-site development has been completed and the structure is ready for occupancy or its intended use.

(2) For rehabilitation of existing buildings, inspections will be made in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section, and at such other stages of construction to assure that construction is being performed in a professional manner and in accordance with Agency approved drawings and specifications.

(3) For new construction when the structure will be covered by an insured 10-year warranty plan as described in exhibit L of this subpart, only the final inspection is required, except in cases when partial payments are required when the provisions of ยง 1924.6(a)(12)(v) of this subpart will be followed.

(4) Arrangements should be made to have the borrower join the County Supervisor or the District Director in making periodic inspections as often as necessary to provide a mutual understanding with regard to the progress and performance of the work.

(5) The Borrower should make enough periodic visits to the site to be familiar with the progress and performance of the work, in order to protect the borrower's interest. If the borrower observes or otherwise becomes aware of any fault or defect in the work or nonconformance with the contract documents, the borrower should give prompt written notice thereof to the contractor with a copy to the County Supervisor or District Director responsible for servicing the type of loan or grant involved.

(6) The borrower should, when practicable, join the County Supervisor or District Director in making all final inspections.

(7) When irrigation equipment and materials are to be purchased and installed, a performance test under actual operating conditions by the person or firm making the installation should be required before final acceptance is made. The test should be conducted in the presence of the borrower, a qualified technician, and, when practicable, the County Supervisor or District Director. If the Agency official is not present at the performance test, he or she should request the technician to furnish a report as to whether or not the installation meets the requirements of the plans and specifications.

(8) For irrigation and drainage construction or any dwelling construction where part or all of the work will be buried or backfilled, interim inspections should be made at such stages of construction that compliance with plans and specifications can be determined.
