
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.11 District Director's review of incomplete development.

During monthly District Office work organization meetings and during regular visits to the County Office, the District Director will review the progress that is being made in completing development financed with loans within the District Director's and County Supervisor's responsibility.

(a) Once each year the District Director will make a comprehensive review of all development work not completed within the time scheduled. For incomplete development financed with loan or grant funds within the responsibility of the District Director, the District Director will take the necessary actions to assure that the borrower or grantee completes the planned development. For incomplete development financed with loan or grant funds within the responsibility of the County Supervisor, the District Director will give the necessary direction to the County Supervisor to assure completion of the work. In connection with these responsibilities, the District Director will consider:

(1) The current farm and home operations with respect to the need for the development as originally planned.

(2) Revisions to the development plan.

(3) Funds remaining in the supervised bank account.

(4) Need for additional funds.

(5) Personal funds that could be furnished by the borrower.

(6) Estimated completion dates.

(7) The borrower's attitude with respect to completing the development.

(b) After a complete review of the status of development in both the District and County Offices has been made, the District Director will make a written report to the State Director which will include observations and recommendations regarding incomplete development. The report may be included in the District Director's regular report, and will include:

(1) The number of cases in which borrowers have not completed their development within 9, 15 or 24 months when authorized, and also the number of cases in which funds have been exhausted and the work is incomplete.

(2) The number of borrowers who have not completed their development within 3 years from the loan closing, and indicate the action that was taken in each such case.

(c) If the borrower has not completed development work within 3 years after the date of loan closing and the District Director has determined that the borrower cannot or will not complete the development, the District Director will so indicate on Form RD 1924-1 and request the State Director to withdraw, for application on the loan, any unused development funds remaining in the borrower's supervised bank account, if the borrower will not sign a check for a refund to the loan account.
