
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.10 Making changes in the planned development.
######## Recording changes in the planned development.

(c)(1) Changes should be accomplished only after Agency written approval. Changes will not be included in payment requests until approved by the borrower; the contractor, if applicable; the architect/engineer, if applicable; and the Agency loan approval official. Examples of changes requiring documentation are:

(i) Any changes in labor and materials and their respective costs.

(ii) Changes in facility design.

(iii) Any decrease or increase in unit-price on final measurements that are different from those shown in the bidding schedule.

(iv) Any increase or decrease in the time to complete the project.

(2) All changes shall be recorded in chronological order as follows:

(i) Contract method. Changes shall be numbered in sequence as they occur using Form RD 1924-7 with necessary attachments.

(ii) Borrower method. An increase or decrease in the cash cost, extension of time, transfer of funds between items, or an addition or deletion of items of development, will be summarized on the front of Form RD 1924-1 by striking through the original figures on items and writing in the changes. Changes made in the "Development Plan" in the working drawings, or in the plans and specifications will be dated and initialed by all parties.

(iii) Mutual self-help method. [See paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.]

(iv) Owner-builder method. [See paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.]

(3) All changes in facility design and/or materials must be certified in accordance with ยง 1924.5(f)(1)(iii) of this subpart.
