
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.12 Warranty of development work.

(a) Form RD 1924-19, "Builder's Warranty," or an insured 10-year home warranty as described in exhibit L of this subpart, and normal trade warranties on items of equipment will be issued to the borrower at the completion of new building construction, dwelling rehabilitation by the contract method, all cases of newly completed and previously unoccupied dwellings or construction under conditional commitments issued to builders and sellers.

(b) If the warranty is not an insured 10-year warranty, a completed Form RD 1924-19, with warranty protection for 1 year, must be provided by the builder upon final acceptance of the work by the owner and the Agency. If an insured 10-year warranty is provided, the requirements of exhibit L of this subpart apply, and a copy of the warranty insurance policy or a binder must have been received by the Agency prior to disbursement of the final payment to the builder.

(c) If, for some reason, the warranty insurance policy cannot be issued, the contractor will be required to execute Form RD 1924-19 and the case will be forwarded to the State Director for consideration of debarment under the provisions of subpart M of part 1940 (available in any Agency office). The County Supervisor will assist the borrower to the extent necessary under the provisions of the warranty and subpart F of part 1924 of this chapter.

(d) The County Supervisor will take the following action prior to the expiration of the first year of the warranty period:

(1) As soon as the warranty has been executed, the follow-up date for sending Form RD 1924-21, "Notice of Expiration of First Year of Warranty," which will be used for the 1 year warranty or the first year of the insured 10-year warranty, will be posted to the "Servicing and Supervision" section of the Management System card.

(2) Form RD 1924-21 is provided for use in notifying the borrower of the expiration date of the first year of the warranty. This letter will be mailed to the borrower early in the second month preceding the expiration date of the first year of the warranty period.

(3) If the County Supervisor or District Director does not hear from the borrower within 30 days, it can reasonably be assumed that no complaint exists or that any complaint has been satisfied unless information to the contrary has been received.

(4) If the borrower notifies the Agency that any complaint has not been satisfied, an onsite inspection shall be made as early as possible, but not later than 1 month preceding the expiration date of the first year of the warranty. The results of the inspection will be recorded on Form RD 1924-12. If the borrower has complaints, the case should be handled in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of part 1924 of this chapter, or as otherwise provided in this subpart.
