
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## Other professional services.

(b)The State Director, on the recommendation of the State architect/engineer, may request that additional professional services be provided.

(1) Professional services typically include soils engineering, structural engineering, civil engineering, surveying, land planning, or professional cost estimation or certification. Fees for these services may be paid directly by the borrower or by the architect as reimbursable expenses.

(2) When a project representative is utilized, unless otherwise agreed, the representative will be provided by the consulting architect/engineer. Prior to the preconstruction conference, the architect/engineer will submit a resume of qualifications of the project representative to the applicant and to the Agency for acceptance in writing. If the applicant provided the project representative, the applicant must submit a resume of the representative's qualifications to the project architect/engineer and the Agency for acceptance in writing, prior to the preconstruction conference. The project representative will attend the preconstruction conference where duties and responsibilities will be fully discussed. The project representative will work under the general supervision of the architect/engineer. The project representative will maintain a daily diary in accordance with the following:

(i) The diary shall be maintained in a hard-bound book.

(ii) The diary shall have all pages numbered and all entries in ink.

(iii) All entries shall be on daily basis, beginning with the date and weather conditions.

(iv) Daily entries shall include daily work performed, number of men and equipment used in the performance of the work, and all significant happenings during the day.

(v) The diary shall be made available to Agency personnel and will be reviewed during project inspections.

(vi) The project representative's diary will become the property of the owner after the project is accepted and final payments are made.
