
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## Construction phase.

(v)This phase includes the administration of the construction contract. It will commence with the award of the construction contract and end when the borrower makes final payment to the contractor. The architect will:

(A) Attend the preconstruction conference. Advise and consult with the borrower (or the borrower's representative) and issue the borrower's instructions to the contractor.

(B) Prepare change orders.

(C) Keep construction accounts and work as the general administrator of the project during construction.

(D) Interpret the contract documents and have the authority to reject all work and materials which do not comply.

(E) Review and approve shop drawings, samples, and other submissions of the contractor for conformance with the design concept and for compliance with the contract documents.

(F) Conduct periodic inspections of all phases of construction to determine compliance with the contract documents and certify as to the amount is in place and materials suitably stored on site for partial payment estimates. These inspections will be augmented, when necessary, by inspections performed by structural, mechanical, and electrical representatives. Periodic inspections should be made as frequently as is necessary to verify that the work conforms with the intent of the contract documents and that a high quality of workmanship is maintained. The State Director may require a full-time project representative on projects with a total development cost of $750,000 or more, when in the opinion of the State Director there is a need for such representative, and the State Director states the reasons for such need to the borrower.

(G) Determine, based on the inspections, the dates of substantial completion and final completion; receive on the borrower's behalf all written guarantees and related documents assembled by the contractor; and issue a final certificate for payment.
