
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## Competitive bidding methods.

(i)(A) All construction contracts must be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding unless an exception is granted in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section thereby permitting contract negotiation. The applicant's architect should prepare the bidding documents. Public notice must be given inviting all interested bidders to submit a bid. Prospective bidders may be contacted asking for their bids; however, public notice is necessary so that all local contractors have the opportunity to submit bids.

(B) A bid bond is required from each bidder in the amount of 5 percent of the bid price as assurance that the bidder will, upon acceptance of the bid, execute the required contract documents within the time specified.

(C) The construction contract will be awarded based on the contract cost, and all conditions listed in the "Invitation to Bid."

(D) If advertising does not provide a satisfactory bid in the opinion of the applicant and the Agency, the applicant shall reject all bids and will then be free to negotiate with bidders on anyone else to obtain a satisfactory contract. The following conditions must be met:
