
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## Contract documents.

(ii)Contract documents will conform with recognized professional practices as prescribed in this paragraph. Such contract documents will contain substantially the following:

(A) Substitution of term "architect" for "engineer" may be necessary on some of the forms. Other modifications may be necessary in some cases to conform to the nature and extent of the project. All such contract documents and related items will be concurred with by the State Director, with the assistance of OGC prior to the release of invitations to bid.

(B) Items listed as I through IV and item XI of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section may be omitted when an exception to the competitive bidding requirement is granted in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section, thereby permitting a negotiated contract.

(C) All negotiated contracts shall include a provision to the effect that the borrower, USDA, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to a specific Federal loan program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions.
