
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## will

(D) A provision of liquidated damagesbe included in all contracts. The liquidated damage amount must be reasonable and represent the best estimate possible of how much interest or other costs will accrue on the loan, and also represent any loss of rent or other income which would result from a delay in the completion of the project beyond the estimated completion date.

(E) All contracts shall include a provision for compliance with the Copeland "Anti-Kickback" Act (18 U.S.C. 874) as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3). This Act prohibits anyone from inducing any person in connection with the construction to give up any part of the compensation to which the person is otherwise entitled.

(F) All contracts will contain a certification by the applicant indicating that there is not now nor will there be an identity of interest between the applicant and any of the following: Contractor, architect, engineer, attorney, subcontractors, material suppliers, equipment lessors, or any of their members, directors, officers, stockholders, partners, or beneficiaries unless specifically identified to the Agency in writing prior to the award of the contract. All contracts must also indicate that when any identity of interest exists or comes into being, the contractor agrees to have construction costs as reported to the Agency on Form 1924-13, "Estimate and Certificate of Actual Cost," audited by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or Licensed Public Accountant (LPA) licensed prior to December 31, 1970, who will provide an opinion as to whether the Form RD 1924-13 presents fairly the costs of construction in conformity with eligible construction costs as prescribed in Agency regulations.

(G) All contracts on any form other than Form RD 1924-6, must contain the language of clause (D) of Form RD 1924-6, which is available in all Agency offices. The language of clause (D) of Form RD 1924-6 sets forth the Notice of Requirement for Affirmative Action to Ensure Equal Employment Opportunity required by Executive Order 11246, the Equal Opportunity clause published at 41 CFR 60-1.4 (a) and (b), and the Standard Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Construction Contract Specifications required by Executive Order 11246. For contract forms other than Form RD 1924-6, Form AD 767, "Equal Employment Opportunity Contract Compliance Notices," which can be obtained from the Finance Office, should be attached and made a part of the contract.

(H) All contracts will contain a provision that they are not in full force and effect until concurred with by the State Director or the State Director's delegate, in writing. Therefore, before loan closing or before the start of construction, whichever occurs first, the State Director or the State Director's delegate will concur in the contract form, content, and execution if acceptable, by including the following paragraph at the end of the contract:

(I) The requirements of ยง 1924.6 (a)(11)(iv) of this subpart apply to all contracts or subcontracts in excess of $10,000.
