
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## Cost certification.

(v)Whenever the State Director determines it appropriate, and in all situations where there is an identity of interest as defined in ยง 1924.4(i) of this subpart, the borrower, contractor and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor having an identity of interest must each provide certification using Form RD 1924-13 as to the actual cost of the work performed in connection with the construction contract. The construction costs, as reported on Form RD 1924-13, must also be audited, in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, by a CPA, or LPA licensed on or before December 31, 1970. In addition, certain agreed upon procedures (available in any Agency office) will be performed in accordance with Attestation Standards. In some cases, the Agency will contract directly with a CPA or LPA for the cost certification. In that event, documentation necessary to have the costs of construction certified by an Agency contractor that they were the actual costs of the work performed, as reported on Form RD 1924-13, will be provided. Funds which were included in the loan for cost certification and which are ultimately not needed because Agency contracts for the cost certification will be returned on the loan. Agency personnel will utilize exhibit M of this subpart (available in any Agency office) and Form RD 1924-26, "Cost Certification Worksheet," to assist in the evaluation of the cost certification process.

(A) Prior to the start of construction, the borrower, contractor and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest must submit, to the CPA or LPA, the accounting system that the borrower, contractor, subcontractor, material supplier or equipment lessor and/or the CPA or LPA proposes to set up and use in maintaining a running record of the actual cost. In order to be acceptable, the borrower must provide a written assertion that it has an accounting system that is suitably designed to provide for a trade-item basis comparison of the actual cost as compared to the estimated cost submitted on Form RD 1924-13. Costs pertaining to a specific line item will be set up in the accounting system for that particular account. For instance, only costs of materials, supplies, equipment, and labor associated with concrete will be shown in the concrete account. The accounting system must also restrict costs to those pertaining to a specific project so that costs from multiple projects will not be co-mingled. The independent CPA or LPA shall report on the borrower's assertion in accordance with the Standards for Attestation Engagements of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). The borrower's and the CPA or LPA's reports on the accounting system shall be provided to the Agency by the borrower.

(B) Prior to final payment to anyone required to cost certify, a trade-item breakdown showing the actual cost compared to the estimated cost must be provided to the owner and the Agency. Form RD 1924-13 is the form of comparative breakdown that must be used, and contains the certifications required of the applicant and contractor prior to final payment. The amounts for builder's general overhead, builder's profit, and general requirements, respectively, shall not exceed the amounts represented on the estimate of cost breakdown provided in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section for any contractor, subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor having or sharing an identity of interest with the borrower. The amounts for general overhead, builder's profit, and general requirements must be established prior to the Agency approving the construction contract and will not be changed during the course of construction. This applies to all contractors, subcontractors, material suppliers, or equipment lessors having or sharing an identity of interest with the applicant. Contract change orders will be processed to adjust the contract amount downward prior to the final payment to the contractor, if necessary, to assure that the amounts shown in the certificate of actual costs do not exceed the amounts represented in the contract cost breakdown. Reduction in the builder's profit, and general overhead if needed, will counterbalance any increase reflected in the contract costs. Any funds remaining as a result of hard cost savings will be applied to the account as an extra payment or used for eligible loan purposes approved by the Agency as long as the improvements are genuinely needed and will enhance marketability of the project. All increases or decreases of 15 percent or more in line item costs will require documentation as to the reason for the increases and/or decreases. The State Director may require documentation for increases and/or decreases of less than 15 percent, if he/she determines it necessary. This information will be required with the cost certification.

(C) The CPA or LPA audit, performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, will include such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures of the borrower and the contractor (and any subcontractor, material supplier or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest) concerning the work performed, services rendered, and materials supplied in accordance with the construction contract he/she considers necessary to express an opinion on the construction costs as reported on Form RD 1924-13. The CPA or LPA shall also perform the additional agreed upon procedures specified by the Agency (available in any Agency office), performed in accordance with Attestation Standards, for the applicant and the contractor (and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest) concerning the work performed, services rendered, and materials supplied in accordance with the construction contract.

(D) Upon completion of construction and prior to final payment, the CPA or LPA will provide an opinion concerning whether the construction costs, as reported on Form RD 1924-13, present fairly the costs of construction in conformity with eligible construction costs as prescribed in Agency regulations.

(E) In some cases, cost certification will be obtained by the Agency through direct contract with the CPA or LPA. The borrower and his/her CPA or LPA will cooperate fully with the contract CPA or LPA by providing all documentation necessary to conduct the certification. The Agency reserves the right to determine, upon receipt of the certified Form RD 1924-13 and the auditor's report, whether they are satisfactory to the Agency. If not satisfactory to the Agency, the borrower will be responsible for providing additional information.

(F) There will exist no business relationship between the CPA or LPA and the borrower except for the performance of the examination of the cost certification, accounting systems work, and tax preparation. Any CPA or LPA who acts as the borrower's accountant (performing manual or automated bookkeeping services or maintains the official accounting records) will not be the same CPA or LPA who cost certifies the project.

(G) Forms RD 1944-30, "Identity of Interest (IOI) Disclosure Certificate" and RD 1944-31, "Identity of Interest (IOI) Qualification Form," provide written notification to the borrower that willful and intentional falsification of cost certification documents will result in debarment of all violators in accordance with the provisions of RD Instruction 1940-M (available in any Agency office). These forms require the disclosure of all identities of interest associated with project construction, certify the entity's ability to provide the contracted service, and cite the penalties for failure to disclose or falsify such certification. Each applicant/borrower will be required to complete and sign the forms (available in any Agency office).
