
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### § 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## Owner-builder method.

(2)This method of development is used only when requested by profit or limited profit RRH applicants when the applicant or any of its controlling principals (such as stockholders, members, partners other than limited partners, directors, or officers), are general contractors by profession, and will serve as the builder of the project without a written construction contract. The State Director may make an exception to the contract method of construction and authorize proceeding by the owner-builder method of construction in accordance with the provisions of this section if the amount of the loan(s) does not exceed the State Director's approval authority. For projects over the State Director's authority, prior written consent of the National Office is required. In such cases, the drawings, specifications, cost estimates, copy of the State Architect/Engineer's review and detailed information on the applicant's qualifications will be submitted to the National Office along with the State Director's recommendations.

(i) The applicant's request to construct a project by the owner-builder method of construction shall be in the form of a letter giving specific and detailed information concerning the owner-builder's proposal, and the qualifications and past experience of the owner-builder. The following information must be included with the request:

(A) A resume indicating the owner-builder's history, ability, and experience.

(B) Dated and signed financial statements on the owner-builder's operation (including balance sheets and statements of income and expense) from current and prior years indicating the payment status of the owner-builder's accounts and any contingent liabilities that may exist. Agency personnel will be responsible for analyzing the financial statement as to the sufficiency of the owner-builder's financial capability to carry out construction. The financial strength must demonstrate the ability of the owner-builder to pay all bills prior to receiving periodic draws of funds from the lender.

(C) A written, dated, and signed statement agreement to provide any funds necessary in excess of the applicant's contribution and the loan amount to complete the project.

(D) A credit report (obtained at no expense to the Agency) attesting to the owner-builder's credit standing.

(E) A listing of trade references that could be contacted to substantiate the owner-builder's experience and good standing.

(F) Statements from other persons for whom the owner-builder has done similar work, indicating the scope of the work and that person's evaluation of the owner-builder's performance.

(G) A current, dated, and signed trade-item cost breakdown of the estimated total development cost of the project which has been prepared by the applicant/owner-builder. Form RD 1924-13 will be used for this purpose. If cost certification services are required by the Agency, the cost of such services may be included in the total development cost of the project. Any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest with the applicant/owner-builder as defined in § 1924.4(i) of this subpart must also provide a trade-item cost breakdown of the proposed amount.

(H) Prior to the start of construction, the owner-builder and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest must submit, to the CPA or LPA, the accounting system that the owner-builder, subcontractor, material supplier or equipment lessor and/or the CPA or LPA proposes to set up and use in maintaining a running record of the actual cost. In order to be acceptable, the owner-builder must provide a written assertion that it has an accounting system that is suitably designed to provide for a trade-item basis comparison of the actual cost as compared to the estimated cost submitted on Form RD 1924-13. Costs pertaining to a specific line item will be set up in the accounting system for that particular account. For instance, only costs of materials, supplies, equipment, and labor associated with concrete will be shown in the concrete account. The accounting system must also restrict costs to those pertaining to a specific project so that costs from multiple projects will not be co-mingled. The independent CPA or LPA shall report on the owner-builder's assertion in accordance with the Standards for Attestation Engagements of the AICPA. The owner-builder's and the CPA or LPA's reports on the accounting system shall be provided to the Agency by the owner-builder.

(I) A written, dated, and signed statement agreeing to permit U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, to have access to any books, documents, papers, and records which are directly pertinent to the specific Federal program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions.

(ii) In order to grant an exception to the contract method of construction and proceed with the owner-builder method of construction, the State Director must determine that the following conditions exist:

(A) The applicant or at least one of its principals is a fully qualified and licensed (if necessary under applicable local law) builder by profession, has adequate experience in constructing the type of units proposed as well as projects of similar size, scope, and complexity and will be able to complete the work in accordance with the Agency approved drawings and specifications.

(B) Based upon the information presented in the applicant's financial statements, the applicant is presently able and is likely to continue to be able to provide any funds necessary in excess of the applicant's contribution and the loan amount to complete the project.

(C) The total development cost of the project does not exceed that which is typical for similar type projects in the area. The total development cost recognized by the Agency for each individual case will be determined by the MFH Coordinator with the advice of the State Architect.

(D) The owner-builder has provided sufficient information on all contracts or subcontracts in excess of $10,000 to permit compliance with § 1924.6(a)(11)(iv) of this subpart.

(iii) In addition to the requirements for the State Director to authorize the owner-builder method of construction as indicated in § 1924.13(e)(2) (i) and (ii) of this subpart, the following additional steps will be taken by the State Director.

(A) If, after a full review of the case documents by the appropriate members of the State Office staff, the State Director determines that the requirements have been met and the construction cost is reasonable, an exception to competitive bidding may be granted. Written documentation of the State Office review results will be placed in the application file.

(B) If, after the full review by the State Office staff, the State Director determines that the construction cost is not competitive with other similar projects in construction and design being built in the area, the applicant will be requested to competitively bid the construction of the project in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.

(C) If there is no agreement by the Agency and the applicant as to construction cost and the applicant is not agreeable to any of the aforementioned alternatives, the State Director will cease any further action on the preapplication and inform the applicant of the right to appeal, in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.

(iv) The development cost of the project may include a typical allowance for general overhead, general requirements and a builder's profit. These amounts may be determined by local investigation and also from HUD data for the area. The applicant/owner-builder and any subcontractors, material suppliers and equipment lessors having or sharing an identity of interest with the applicant/owner-builder may not be permitted a builder's profit, general overhead, and general requirements which exceed the amounts represented on their cost breakdown.

(v) Under no circumstances will loan funds be used to pay the owner/builder or its stockholders, members, directors or officers, directly or indirectly, any profits from the construction of the project except a typical builder's fee for performing the services that would normally be performed by a general contractor under the contract method of construction. Discounts and rebates given the owner-builder in advance must be deducted before the invoices are paid. If discounts or rebates are given after the invoices are paid, the funds must be returned to the supervised bank account or applied on the interim construction loan, as appropriate. Under no circumstances will the dollar amount be placed in the reserve account.

(vi) The plan and specifications must be specific and complete so that there is a clear understanding as to how the facility will be constructed and the materials that will be used.

(vii) When architectural services are required by § 1924.13(a) during the construction and warranty phases they must be provided by an architect who has no identity of interest with the applicant/owner-builder. The services to be rendered during the construction and warranty phases include, but are not limited to inspections, changes in the scope of project or work to be done, administration of construction accounts, rejection of work and materials not conforming to the Agency approved drawings and specifications, and other appropriate service listed in § 1924.13(a)(5) (v) and (vi) of this subpart.

(viii) The applicant/owner-builder and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest as defined in § 1924.4(i) of this subpart must each provide certification as to the actual cost of the work performed in connection with the construction of the project on Form RD 1924-13 prior to final payment. The construction costs, as reported on Form RD 1924-13, must be audited by a CPA, or LPA licensed on or before December 31, 1970, in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, and certain agreed upon procedures (available in any Agency office) performed in accordance with Attestation Standards. In some cases, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will contract directly with a CPA or LPA for the cost certification. In that event, documentation necessary to have the costs of construction certified by an Agency contractor that they were the actual costs of the work performed, as reported on Form RD 1924-13, will be provided. Funds which were included in the loan for cost certification and which are ultimately not needed because Agency contracts for the cost certification will be returned on the loan.

(A) The CPA or LPA's audit, performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, will include such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures of the applicant/owner-builder (and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest) concerning the work performed, services rendered, and materials supplied in connection with the construction of the project he/she considers necessary to express an opinion on the construction costs as reported on Form RD 1924-13. Upon completion of construction and prior to final payment, the CPA or LPA will provide an opinion as to whether the construction costs as reported on Form RD 1924-13 present fairly the costs of construction in conformity with eligible construction costs as prescribed in Agency regulations. The Agency reserves the right to determine, upon receipt of the certified Form RD 1924-13 and the auditor's report, whether they are satisfactory to the Agency. At a minimum, the CPA or LPA shall also perform any additional agreed upon procedures (available in any Agency office) specified by the Agency, performed in accordance with Attestation Standards, of the owner-builder (and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest) concerning the work performed, services rendered, and materials supplied in connection with the construction. There will exist no business relationship between the CPA or LPA and the borrower except for the performance of the examination of the cost certification, accounting systems work, and tax preparation. Any CPA or LPA who acts as the borrower's accountant (performing manual or automated bookkeeping services or maintains the official accounting records) will not be the same CPA or LPA who cost certifies the project.

(B) Prior to final payment to anyone required to cost certify, the Agency must be provided with a certification and a trade-item breakdown showing the actual cost compared to the estimated cost furnished in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(i)(G) of this section. Form RD 1924-13 is the form of comparative breakdown that must be used, and contains the certification required of the applicant/owner-builder prior to final payment. The amounts for builder's general overhead, general requirements, and builder's profit shall not exceed the amounts represented on the estimate of cost breakdown provided in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(i)(G) of this section for the owner-builder or any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor having or sharing an identity of interest with the applicant/owner-builder. Final payment to the owner-builder will be adjusted, if necessary, to assure that the amounts shown on the certificate of actual cost do not exceed the amounts represented on the cost breakdown. Any funds remaining as a result of hard cost savings will be applied to the account as an extra payment or used for eligible loan purposes approved by the Agency as long as the improvements are genuinely needed and will enhance marketability of the project. All increases or decreases of 15 percent or more in line item costs will require documentation as to the reason for the increases or decreases. The State Director may require documentation for increases or decreases of less than 15 percent, if he/she determines it necessary. This information will be required with the cost certification.

(C) Subcontracting development work.
