
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit B to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Requirements for Modular/Panelized Housing Units
######## Working Drawings.

B.For emphasis as to the details required for modular/panelized housing proposals, the following items are listed in addition to and in more detail than the requirements in exhibit C of this subpart. In some cases, the drawing presentation sheets may be required to be reduced to 200 mm by 266 mm (8 x 10inches) sheet size:

1. Foundation and/or Basement Plan. This plan shall include anchorage details, exterior and interior dimensions, typical footings, wall thickness, pilaster sizes and locations, column or pier sizes and locations and girders required to support the structures. Show location of all equipment (furnace, water heater, laundry tubs, sump, etc.) floor drains, electrical outlets, electrical entrance panels, and all doors and windows or crawl space vents with all sizes indicated.

2. Floor Plans of all levels. Show square footage of each habitable room with square footage of each area of natural light and ventilation. In addition, a design sketch scaled properly to illustrate a typical furniture arrangement for all habitable levels is required to indicate intended occupancy functions of the design. A window and door schedule should also be provided indicating glazed size, sash size, and thermal conductance of each type.

3. All exterior elevations including opening and sizes; wall finish materials, flashing, finish grades intended, depth of footings when known, finish floor, ceiling heights, roof slope, location of downspouts, gutters, vents for both structural spaces and for equipment. Indicate construction joint locations and details of connections between sections, modules or components.

4. Building cross sections showing size and spaces of all framing members from lowest member (bottom of footing) to highest point of roof (ridge) plus;

(a) Type of material and method of application of all covering materials, such as subflooring, combination subflooring and underlayment, sheathing, interior and exterior finishes;

(b) Complete details including computations of trussed rafter systems with the architect/engineer's stamp of those responsible for the design.

(c) Details of insulation and vapor barrier installation and attic ventilation. If the thermal characteristics to be provided are determined according to optional method for overall structure performance allowed in exhibit D of this subpart, the submission and complete engineering calculations with all details of construction shall be sent to Administrator, Attn. PSS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, for analysis as prescribed in paragraph IV C of exhibit D of this subpart.

(d) Special details as necessary to show any special features of construction, including method of fabricating, erection, joining, and finishing of all elements; and

(e) Details and sections of stairways including all critical dimensions, such as, riser, run and headroom.

5. Interior elevations of kitchen cabinets and bathroom elevations with schedule of all shelf, counter-top and drawer footage. Indicate whether kitchen cabinets are to be custom made for each model or made for any model by a cabinet manufacturing company.

6. Plumbing schematics, including pipe materials, sizes and plumbing code compliance.

7. Heating plan, including heat loss of each room, is needed for heating systems, sizings and capacities, forced air, electric baseboard, or electric space heaters and, if applicable, heat gain. For forced air systems, include supply and return duct layout and location of appropriate diffusers.

8. Electrical plan, including circuit chart or diagram.

9. Any other pertinent facts or drawings that will better explain why and how certain unusual materials or structural methods are employed.

Dear Sirs: Athough the documents submitted to this office have only received a cursory review, they appear to be in substantial compliance to qualify your firm for the type of acceptance indicated on the attached list.

The acceptance being issued is subject to this letter of conditions, compliance with HUD Handbook 4950.1 Technical Suitability of Products Program Technical and Processing Procedures, compliance with Agency) Thermal Performance Construction Standards, and compliance with the conditions set forth in the HUD acceptance document, if applicable, whose number appears on the acceptance.

The manufacturer and the authorized builder-dealer bear the responsibility of complying with the above, the exhibits submitted and the applicable development standards.

The manufacturer and/or builder-dealer also shall:

1. Provide positive identification of the modular unit by model, date of manufacture and factory in which the unit was manufactured.

2. Furnish with each home to be financed by the Agency in ______(State)______, a written certificate (Attachment 5 to this exhibit B) endorsed by the builder-dealer certifying that all requirements have been satisfied.

3. Furnish the local Agency County Supervisor with a complete set of drawings including site plans, description of materials, structural engineering bulletins when applicable in the state, and documentation relating to the manufacture, transportation, erection, and installation for each model of modular/panelized housing to be financed in the county. Electrical, plumbing and heating plans must be furnished for each model in addition to the basic drawings. Floor plans and elevation drawings may vary from those listed in attachment 1 of exhibit B to RD Instruction 1924-A to reflect each of the manufacturer's models provided they are in compliance with the applicable development standard and the Agency Thermal Performance Construction Standards and provided they have been accepted and listed in this state's approval of manufactured structures. No field alterations to the accepted models will be allowed.

4. Furnish, when required by the County Supervisor, foundation drawings (including special foundation design considerations when the unit is to be erected in seismic zones 1, 2 or 3) adapting the modular home to any unusual site conditions needing information additional to that furnished by the standard drawings.

5. Furnish the County Office with a copy of inspection reports of the manufacturing facilities immediately after the inspection reports have been completed.

6. Allow RD personnel to inspect the manufacturing facilities at any time and furnish all Agency State Offices, where acceptance has been obtained, with a copy of any Agency inspection reports immediately after the inspection reports have been completed.

7. In the event there are major changes to the submitted drawings, obtain approval under the HUD Technical Suitability of Products Program and submit verification of this approval to the County Office for listing on the state's accepted list. Any modular home shipped with major changes incorporated, without such changes on file at the County Office may be rejected.

This acceptance may be subject to corrective action when deficiencies are noted in the product, field inspections, manufacturing facilities, or when there is noncompliance with the provisions of the HUD Technical Suitability of Products Program.

The inclusion of these models on the accepted list is based only on the material and structural aspects of the manufactured units. Final determination of acceptability rests with RD personnel. Other factors relating to the property in its entirety such as appraisal, location, sustained market acceptance, architectural planning and appeal, thermal qualities, mechanical and electrical equipment, etc., must be considered in the final determination.

Your cooperation in this acceptance program is appreciated.

Sincerely,

Dear Sirs: As set forth in acceptance letters issued by this office, acceptance of modular/panelized homes in this state is based on HUD's Technical Suitability of Products Program and the conditions stated in the acceptance letter. Your file has been reviewed and the following has been noted.

Please submit a written response and appropriate documents for the above items within ____ days, or your product will be removed from the accepted list until your firm can again qualify. If you have any problems furnishing the above within the time stated, please contact this office.

We look forward to receiving the materials indicated so that your firm's listing may be continued.

Sincerely,

It is understood that the manufacturer's certification does not relieve the builder/dealer of responsibility under the terms of the builder's warranty required by the National Housing Act.
