
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### ยง 1924.13 Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
######## ii

() The 75 percent rule will apply when division of the sum of the amounts of the three largest subcontracts by the total building cost results in 75 percent or more.

(D) Qualified contracting entities. Contractors, subcontractors, material suppliers, and any other individual or organization sharing an identity of interest and providing materials or services for the project must certify that it is a viable, ongoing trade or business qualified and properly licensed to undertake the work for which it intends to contract. Form RD 1944-31 will be prepared and executed by the contracting entities. The form provides notification to the entities of the penalty, under law, for erroneously certifying to the statements contained therein. Debarment actions will be instituted against entities who fail to disclose an identity of interest in accordance with the provisions of RD Instruction 1940-M (available in any Agency office).

(ix) Requests for payment for work performed by the owner-builder method, shall be permitted to the Agency District Director for review and approval prior to each advance of funds in order to insure that funds are used for authorized purposes. Requests for payment shall be made on Form RD 1924-18 or other professionally recognized form containing the following certification to the Agency:

(A) If interim financing is available at reasonable rates and terms for the construction period, such financing shall be obtained. Exhibit B of subpart E of part 1944 of this chapter shall be used to inform the interim lender that the Agency will not close its loan until the project is complete, ready for occupancy, evidence is furnished indicating that all bills have been paid for work completed on the project, all inspections have been completed and all required approvals have been obtained from any governmental authorities having jurisdiction over the project. Upon presentation of proper partial payment estimates containing an estimate of the value of work in place which has been prepared and executed by the owner-builder, certified by the applicant's architect, and accepted by the Agency, the interim lender may advance construction funds in accordance with the provisions of this section. It is suggested that the partial payment not exceed 90 percent of the value of work in place and material suitably stored on site.

(B) If interim financing is not available, partial payments not to exceed 90 percent of the value of work in place and materials suitably stored on site may be made to the owner-builder for that portion of the estimated cost of development guaranteed by a letter of credit or deposits meeting the requirements of ยง 1924.6(a)(3)(iii) (A), (B) or (C) of this subpart. Partial payments may not exceed 60 percent of the value of work in place in all other cases. The determination of the value of work in place will be based upon an application for payment containing an estimate of the value of work in place which has been prepared and executed by the owner-builder, certified by the borrower's architect, and accepted by the Agency. Prior to receiving the first partial payment, the owner-builder must submit a schedule of prices or values of the various trades or phases of the work aggregating the total development cost of the project as required in ยง 1924.13(e)(2)(i) (G) and (H) of this subpart. Each application for payment must be based upon this schedule, and show the total amount owed and paid to date for materials and labor procured in connection with the project. With each application for payment, the owner-builder must also submit evidence showing how the requested partial payment is to be applied, evidence showing that previous partial payments were properly applied, and a signed statement from the applicant's attorney, title insurance company, or local official in charge of recording documents certifying that the public records have been searched and that there are no liens of record. When the District Director has reason to believe that partial payments may not be applied properly, checks will be made payable to persons who furnish materials and labor for eligible purposes in connection with the project.

(x) Under no circumstances shall funds be released for final payment or to pay any items of the builder's profit until the project is 100 percent complete, ready for occupancy, and the owner-builder has completed and properly executed Form RD 1924-13 or complied with the cost certification procedures of ยง 1924.13(e)(2)(viii) of this subpart.
