
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit B to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Requirements for Modular/Panelized Housing Units
######## Statements:

A.

1. Name and location of organization, including titles and names of its principal officers.

2. A brief description of plant facilities.

3. Extent of intended market distribution, including a list of any other states in which units will be marketed.

4. The method of quality control during site installation.

5. A copy of the applicable current HUD Structural Engineering Bulletin (SEB), Regional Letter of Acceptance (RLA), or Area Letter of Acceptance (ALA).

6. A current factory inspection report made within 6 months by HUD or HUD authorized agency.

7. Name and address of any third party inspection agency.

8. Location of nearest assembled product for inspection.

9. Field manuals for site installation and/or set-up procedures.

10. Specifications or descriptions of materials using either Form RD 1924-2, (HUD-FHA Form 2005), "Description of Materials," including sizes, species and grade of all building and finishing materials. All blanks should be filled and additional sheets may be attached as well as equipment manufacturer's brochures. Use an asterisk (*) to denote all items of onsite construction that will be provided by the builder-dealer. The builder-dealer must complete a form for the builder-dealer's portion of the work. Use N/A in any blank which is not applicable.

11. Names and addresses of other public and private agencies which have rendered or been asked to render a technical suitability or acceptance determination with respect to the products or structural methods employed.

12. Written certification that construction drawings and specifications conform with the applicable development standard.

13. Any other pertinent information.

14. An index of all documents submitted.
