
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit C to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guide for Drawings and Specifications
######## Details and Sections.

D.

1. Section through exterior wall showing all details of construction from footings to highest point of road. Where more than one type of wall material is used, show each type. Scale 1:25 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;) minimum.

2. Section through any portion of dwelling where rooms are situated at various levels or where finished attic is proposed, Scale, 1:50 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;) minimum.

3. Section through stair wells, landings, and stairs, including headroom clearances and surrounding framing. Scale, 1:50 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;) minimum.

4. Details of roof trusses, if proposed, including connections and stress or test data with seal of architect or engineer responsible. Scale of connections, 1:25 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;) minimum.

5. Elevation and section through fireplace. Scale, 1:25 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;) minimum.

6. Elevations and section through kitchen cabinets, indicating shelving. Scale, 1:50 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;) minimum.

7. Sections and details of all critical construction points, fastening systems, anchorage methods, special structural items or special millwork. Scale as necesaary to provide information, 1:25 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;) minimum.

Drawings for a group of structures (such as for several conditional commitments) may be submitted in lieu of drawings for each individual property when a number of applications are simultaneously submitted involving repetition of the same type structure.
