
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit C to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guide for Drawings and Specifications
######## Floor Plans.

B.

1. Scale, 1:50 (&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033;).

2. Floor plan of each floor and basement, if any. Show typical furniture locations to suggest intended use of each habitable space.

3. Plan of all attached terraces and porches, and of garage or carport.

4. If dwelling is of crawl-space type, a separate foundation plan. Slab-type foundation may be shown on sections.

5. Direction, size and spacing of all floor and ceiling framing members, girders, columns or piers.

6. Location of all partitions and indication of door sizes, and direction of door swing.

7. Location and size of all permanently installed construction and equipment such as kitchen cabinets, closets, storage shelving, plumbing fixtures, water heaters, etc. Details of kitchen cabinets may be on separate drawing.

8. Location and symbols of all electrical equipment, including switches, outlets, fixtures, etc.

9. Heating system on separate drawing, or when it may be shown clearly it may be part of the floor or basement plan showing: (a) layout of system; (b) location and size of ducts, piping, registers, radiators, etc.; (c) location of heating unit and room thermostat; (d) total calculated heat loss of dwelling including heat loss through all vertical surfaces, ceiling and floor. When a duct or piped distribution system is used, calculated heat loss of each heated space is required.

10. Cooling system, on separate drawings or, as part of heating plan, floor or basement plan showing: (a) layout of system; (b) location and size of ducts, registers, compressors, coils, etc.; (c) heat gain calculations, including estimated heat gain for each space conditioned; (d) model number and Btu capacity of equipment or units in accordance with applicable Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute (ARI) or American Society of Refrigerating Engineers (ASRE) Standard; (e) Btu capacity and total kilowatt (KW) input at stated local design conditions; (f) if room or zone conditioners are used, provide location, size and installation details.
