
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit C to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guide for Drawings and Specifications
######## Plot Plan.

A.Refer to Example Plot Plan No. 1, attachment 1 to this exhibit C (available in any Agency office). Ratio: 1:240 (1&#x2033; = 20&#x2032;) (at scale, 1&#x2033; = 20&#x2032; or&#x2033; = 1&#x2032; 0&#x2033; minimum):

1. Lot and block number.

2. Dimensions of plot and north point.

3. Dimensions of front, rear and side yards.

4. Location and dimensions of garage, carport and other accessory buildings.

5. Location and sizes of walks, driveways and approaches.

6. Location and sizes of steps, terraces, porches, fences and retaining walls.

7. Location and dimensions of easements and established setback requirements, if any.

8. Elevations at the following points: (a) first floor of dwelling and floor of garage, carport and other accessory building; (b) finish curb or crown of street at points of extension of lot lines; (c) finish grade elevation at each principal corner of structure; (d) finish grade at bottom of drainage swales at extension of each side of structure as feasible.

9. The following additional elevations, as applicable, if the topography of the site or the design of the structure is such that special grading, drainage or foundations may be necessary. Examples are irregular or steeply sloping sites, filled areas on sites, or multi-level structure designs; (a) finish and existing grade elevations at each corner of the plot; (b) existing and finish grade at each principal corner of dwelling; (c) finish grade at both sides of abrupt changes of grade such as retaining walls, slopes, etc.; (d) other elevations that may be necessary to show grading and drainage.

10. Indication of type and approximate location of drainage swales.

11. When an individual water supply and/or sewage system is proposed, drawings, specifications and other items prescribed in paragraph V of this exhibit.
