
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit D to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Thermal Performance Construction Standards
######## Infiltration.

1.a. Requirements: All construction shall be performed in such a manner as to provide a building envelope free of excessive infiltration.

(i) Caulking and sealants. Exterior joints around windows and door frames, between wall cavities and window or door frames, between wall and foundation, between wall and roof, between wall panels, at penetrations of utility services through walls, floors and roofs, and all other openings in the exterior envelope shall be caulked, gasketed, weatherstripped, or otherwise sealed. Caulking shall be silicone rubber base or butyl rubber base, conforming to Federal Specifications TT-S-1543 and TT-S-1657 respectively, or materials demonstrating equivalent performance in resilience and durability.

(ii) Windows shall comply with ANSI 134.1, NWMA 15-2; the air infiltration rate shall not exceed 0.5 ft 3/min per ft. of sash crack.

(iii) Sliding glass doors shall comply with ANSI 134.2, NWM 15-3; the air infiltration rate shall not exceed .5 ft 3/min per square ft. of door area.

(iv) All insulation placed in open cavity walls shall be installed so that all space behind electrical switches and receptacles, plumbing, ductwork and other obstructions in the cavity are insulated as completely as possible. Insulation shall be omitted on the side facing the conditioned area; however, the vapor barrier in walls must not be cut or destroyed.

b. Recommendations: (i) Wrap outside corners of wall sheathing with 15 lb. asphalt impregnated building felt before siding application.

(ii) Utilize vestibules for entry doors, especially those facing into the direction of winter wind.

(iii) Install plumbing, mechanical and electrical components in interior partitions as much as possible. All water piping should be insulated from freezing temperatures.
