
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit D to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Thermal Performance Construction Standards
######## Vapor Barrier.

3.a. Requirements: Adequate vapor barriers must be provided adjacent to the interior finish material of the wall or other closed envelope components which do not have ventilation space on the non-conditioned side of the insulation.

(i) A vapor barrier at the inside of the wall or other closed envelope component must have a permeability (perm) rating less than that of any other material in the component and in no case have a perm rating greater than one. All vapor barriers must be sealed around all openings in the interior surface. Vapor barriers are not required in ceilings and floors. Continuous vapor barriers on ceilings, walls, and floors require adequate moisture vapor control in the conditioned space.

(ii) All vapor producing or exhaust equipment shall be ducted to the outside and equipped with dampers. This equipment includes rangehoods, bathroom exhaust fans and clothes dryers. If a dwelling design proposes the use of windows to satisfy the kitchen and/or bathroom ventilation requirements of the development standards, the incorporation of dehumidification equipment should be considered in accordance with paragraph IV D 3 b. Exhaust of any equipment shall not terminate in an attic or crawl space.

b. Recommendation: Forced air heating/cooling systems should include humidification/dehumidification systems where conditions indicate.

E. [Reserved]
