
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit H to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Prohibition of Lead-Based Paints
######## before

C. For all existing housing or buildings built1950 on which a loan is closed after July 19, 1978, the Agency requires that the applicant, borrower and/or tenant be notified as in paragraph IV B and a copy of attachment 2 to this exhibit H, "Caution Note on Lead-Based Paint Hazard," available in any Agency County Office, shall be delivered to the hands of the applicant, borrowers and/or tenant.

D. For all property transfers and inventory property sales, attachments 1 and 2 to this Exhibit H (available in any Agency office) shall be handed to the purchaser by the Agency representative.

E. All inventory housing or buildings built before 1950 to be repaired, renovated, or rehabilitated shall have tests for lead content, and where found to be hazardous, shall have any interior lead-based paint removed entirely. Loose or cracked surfaces shall be cleaned down to the base surface before repainting with a paint containing not more than six one-hundredths of 1 percentum lead by weight in the total nonvolatile content of the paint or the equivalent measure of lead in the dried film of paint already applied or both. Contracting officers shall include the following provision prohibiting the use of lead-based paint in all contracts and subcontracts for construction or rehabilitation of housing or buildings:

No lead-based paint containing more than .5 of 1 percentum lead by weight (calculated as lead metal) in the total nonvolatile content of the paint, or the equivalent measure of lead in the dried film of paint already applied, or both, or with respect to paint manufactured after June 22, 1977, no lead-based paint containing more than .06 of 1 percentum lead by weight (calculated as lead metal) in the total nonvolatile content of the paint, or the equivalent measure of lead in the dried film of paint already applied, or both, shall be used in the construction or rehabilitation of residential structures under this contract or any subsequent subcontractors.

Authority: This amendment is made under provisions of 5 U.S.C. 301, 40 U.S.C. 486 (c).

Done at ________________, ________ this ____________ day of ____________________, 19____.

Section 401 of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act as amended by the National Consumer Health Information and Health Promotion Act of 1976, Pub. L. 94-317, provides a requirement that each federal agency issue regulations and to take such other steps necessary to prohibit the use of lead-based paint on all applicable surfaces in Federal and Federally-assisted construction or rehabilitation of residential structures. The Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act, Pub. L. 91-695, January 13, 1971, provides for grants to units of general local government in any state for the purpose of detecting and treating incidents of lead-based paint poisoning. Title II of this Act also provides for grants to the same units to identify those areas of risk including testing to detect the presence of lead-based paint on surfaces of residential housing.
