
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit I to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guidelines for Seasonal Farm Labor Housing
######## Individual Family Unit

302-1.1-One family or extended family to a unit which shall contain adequate space for living, dining, kitchen, bath and bedrooms. Multifamily type units are required whenever possible for economy of site and building construction.

a. The minimum total net living unit size shall be 400 square feet. This size assumes occupancy of four persons. Units planned for additional occupants shall include an additional 60 square feet of living area per person.

b. A living/dining area shall be provided to accommodate a table and chairs with adequate dining and circulation space for the intended number of occupants. The living/dining area should be combined with the kitchen area.

c. The kitchen shall contain a sink, cooking range and refrigerator. A minimum free countertop area of six square feet is required. A minimum of 40 square feet of shelf area is required.

d. Each bathroom shall contain adequate space and circulation for a bathtub and/or shower, water closet and lavatory. Access to the bathroom shall not be through another bedroom in dwelling units containing more than one bedroom.

e. Bedroom areas separate from living areas are required. The design of the unit shall provide a minimum of 50 square feet of sleeping area per intended occupant including storage. Housing for families with children shall have a separate bedroom or sleeping area for the adult couples. A two foot by two foot shelf with a two foot long clothes hanging rod is required for each occupant.
