
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit I to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guidelines for Seasonal Farm Labor Housing
######## Group Living Unit

302-1.2-A living unit designed for the occupancy of more than one family or for separate occupancy of male and/or female groups. Common bath spaces shall be contained in the same building. Group living units for families shall have separate bedrooms for each adult couple.

a. The design of the unit shall provide for a minimum of 620 square feet of total net living area for eight persons and an additional 60 square feet for each additional occupant. Additional area shall be planned for a second bathroom when anticipated occupancy will exceed eight persons, or if it will be occupied by persons of both sexes.

b. The kitchen shall contain an adequate sink, cooking range, refrigerator, and space the size of which is commensurate with the needs of the group living unit. A minimum of free countertop area of eight square feet is required. A minimum of 50 square feet of shelf area is required.

c. Refer to paragraph 302-1.1 b for living/dining requirements.

d. Each bathroom shall contain adequate space and circulation for comfortable access to, and use of, fixtures which will include a bathtub and/or shower, water closet and lavatory. In no case shall minimum fixtures be less than that required per paragraph 302-1.3 c below.

e. Refer to paragraph 301-1.1 e for bedroom requirements.
