
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit I to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guidelines for Seasonal Farm Labor Housing
######## Dormitory Living Unit

302.1.3-A building which provides common sleeping quarters for persons of the same sex and may or may not contain kitchen and/or dining facilities in the same building as the sleeping quarters.

a. The design of areas for sleeping purposes, using single beds, shall provide for not less than 72 square feet per occupant including storage.

b. The design of areas for sleeping purposes, using double bunk beds, shall provide for not less than 40 square feet per occupant. Triple bunk beds will not be allowed.

c. The design of each dormitory building must include a water closet and a bathtub or shower for each 12 occupants, and a lavatory for each 8 persons. Urinals may be substituted for men's water closets on the basis of one urinal for one water closet, up to maximum of one-third of the required water closets.

d. Adequate kitchen and dining facilities must be provided which may be in the dormitory building or detached at a distance of not more than 200 feet from the sleeping quarters. In either case, the space must contain adequate cooking ranges, refrigerators, sinks, countertop, food storage shelves, tables and chairs, and circulation space. These facilities will comply with the requirements of the "Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and Code," part V of the "Food Service Sanitation Manual," U.S. Public Health Service Publication 934 (1965).

302-2 Other Facilities:
