
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit H to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Prohibition of Lead-Based Paints
######## et seq.

This exhibit prescribes the methods to be used to comply with the requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act, Public Law 91-695, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 4801) and the amendment to section 501 (3) of Public Law 91-695 (42 U.S.C. 4841 (3)) as amended by the National Consumer Health Information and Health Promotion Act of 1976, Public Law 94-317.

The Agency shall not permit the use of lead-based paint on applicable surfaces of any housing or buildings purchased, repaired, or rehabilitated for human habitation with financial assistance provided by this agency. Paints used on applicable surfaces shall not contain more than 0.06 percent lead by weight calculated as lead metal in the total nonvolatile content of liquid paints or in the dried film of paint already applied.

A. Housing and buildings mean any house, apartment, or structure intended for human habitation. This includes any institutional structure where persons reside, such as an orphanage, boarding school, dormitory, day care center or extended care facility, college housing, domestic or migratory labor housing, hospitals, group practice facilities, community facilities, and business or industrial facilities.

B. Applicable surfaces means all interior surfaces, whether accessible or not, and those exterior surfaces which are readily accessible to children under 7 years of age, such as stairs, decks, porches, railings, windows, and doors.

C. Lead-based paint means any paint containing more than .5 of 1 percentum lead by weight, or with respect to paint manufactured after June 22, 1977, lead-based paint containing more than six one-hundredths of 1 percentum lead by weight.

A. All new housing and buildings shall comply with paragraph II of this exhibit H.
