
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit I to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guidelines for Seasonal Farm Labor Housing

General-This exhibit sets forth the guidelines and minimum standards for planning and construction of new Labor Housing (LH) that will be occupied on a seasonal basis. Rehabilitation LH projects will be in substantial conformance with these guidelines and standards. A "seasonal basis" is defined as 6 months or less per year. Seasonal housing for the farmworker need not be convertible to year-round occupancy; however, the living units shall be designed for the intended type of tenant, the time of occupancy, the location, the specific site, and the planned method of operation. It is important that the design of the LH site and buildings will help to create a pleasing lifestyle which will promote human dignity and pride among its tenants.

Codes and Regulations-Compliance is required with National, state and local codes or regulations affecting design, construction, mechanical, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation, and site improvement.

300-1 Complete architectural/engineering services in accordance with this subpart will be required if an LH grant is involved or the LH loan will involve more than four individual family units, or any number of group living units, or dormitory units accommodating 20 or more persons.

300-2 Buildings and site design shall provide for a safe, secure, economical, healthful, and attractive living facility and environment suited to the needs of the domestic farm laborer and his/her family.

300-3 At least 5 percent of the individual family units in a project, or one unit, whichever is greater, and all common use facilities will be accessible to or adaptable for physically handicapped persons. This requirement may be modified if a recipient/borrower shows, through a market survey acceptable to the Agency, that a different percentage of accessible or adapatable units is more appropriate for a particular project and its service area.

301-1 General-The site design shall be arranged to utilize and preserve the favorable features and characteristics of the property and to avoid or minimize the potential harmful effect of unfavorable features. Particular attention is directed to ยง 1944.164 (l), (m) and (n) of subpart D of part 1944 of this chapter with reference to compliance with 7 CFR part 1970. Some of the features which must be considered are the topography, drainage, access, building orientation to sun and breezes; and advantageous features, such as vegetation, trees, good views, etc. or disadvantageous features, such as offensive odors, noxious plants, noise, dust, health hazards, etc.

301-2 Drainage-Surface and subsurface drainage systems shall be provided in accordance with the applicable development standard and subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.

301-3 Water and Sewage Disposal-Water supply and sewage disposal installations shall comply with subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter, the applicable development standard and all governing state and local department of health requirements. Where environmentally and economically feasible, the LH facility shall connect to public water and waste disposal systems.

301-4 Electrical-Adequate electrical service shall be provided for exterior and interior lighting and for the operation of equipment.

301-5 Vehicular Access and Parking.

301-5.1 Safe and convenient all-weather roads shall be provided to connect the site and its improvements to the off-site public road.

301-5.2 All-weather drives and parking shall be provided for tenants, and for trucks and buses as needed within the site. Driveways, parking areas and walkway locations shall be in substantial conformance with the applicable development standard.

301-6 Walks:

301-6.1 Walks shall be provided for safe convenient access to all dwellings and for safe pedestrian circulation throughout the development between locations and facilities where major need for pedstrian access can be anticipated, such as laundry, parking to dwelling units, common dining rooms, etc.

301-6.2 Walkways shall be hard surface, such a concrete, asphalt, or stablized gravel, and shall be adequately drained.

301-7 Building Location:

301-7.1 Side and rear yards and distances between buildings shall conform to the applicable development standard.

301-8. Garbage and Refuse:

301-8.1 Garbage and refuse containers for individual units are required and shall be stored on durable functional racks or shall be located in a central screened area with easily cleaned surfaces. Single containers for multiple units shall be screened and in locations designed to accommodate collection vehicle functions.

301-9 Fencing:

301-9.1 Fencing used in the site design for project privacy or building security shall be harmonious in appearance with other fences and surrounding facilities which fall within the same view.

301-10 Outdoor living:

301-10.1 All public areas where pedestrian use can be anticipated after sunset shall be adequately lighted for security purposes, such as walkways to common use facilities-laundry, dining halls, building entrances, parking areas, etc.

301-11 Planting and Landscaping:

301-11.1 Planting and lawns or ground covers shall be provided as required to protect the site from erosion, control dust, for active and passive recreation areas, and provide a pleasant environment.

302-1.1 Living Units Design:
