
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit I to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Guidelines for Seasonal Farm Labor Housing
######## Recreation

302-2.6-Outdoor recreation space is required and shall be commensurate with the needs of the occupants. Active and passive recreation areas will be provided which may consist of outdoor sitting areas, playfields, tot lots and play equipment.

303-1 Materials and Construction-All materials and their installation in a LH facility shall meet the applicable development standard. Any exceptions to these requirements for materials and their installation must be obtained with the approval of the Agency National Office. Material should be selected that is durable and easily cleaned and maintained.

303-2 Fire Protection-Fire protection and egress shall be provided to comply with the applicable development standard.

303-3 Light, Ventilation, Screening-Natural light and ventilation requirements as specified in the applicable development standard shall be followed. Screening of all exterior openings is required.

303-4 Ceiling Heights-Ceiling heights of habitable rooms shall be a minimum of seven feet six inches clear, and seven feet in halls or baths in dwelling units. Public rooms shall have a minimum of eight feet clear ceiling height. Sloping ceilings shall have at least seven feet six inches forthe room with no portion less than five feet in height.

303-5 Heating and Cooling-Heating and cooling and/or air circulation equipment shall be installed as needed for the comfort of the tenants, considering the climate and time of year the facility will be in operation. Maximum feasible use of passive solar heating and cooling techniques shall be required. All equipment installed will be in accordance with the applicable development standard to protect the health and safety of occupants.

303-6 Plumbing-Plumbing materials and their installation shall meet the applicable development standard. Hot water will be required to all living units, baths, kitchens and laundry facilities.

303-7 Insulation, Thermal Standards, Winterization-Insulation will be required where either heating or cooling is provided as per paragraph 303-5 above or when climatic conditions dictate a need for insulation. Insulation Standards will comply with exhibit D, paragraph IV C 3, of this subpart, or the state insulation standards, whichever are the more stringent.

303-8 Electrical-Electrical design, equipment and installation shall comply with the requirements of the latest edition of the National Electrical Code, and the applicable development standard for materials and their installation. Individual family units may be separately metered; other types of dwelling units may be separately metered as required.

303-9 Security and Winterization-Adequate management and physical measures will be provided as necessary to protect the facility during off-season periods, including adequate heating and insulation as required.
