
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit J to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Manufactured Home Sites, Rental Projects and Subdivisions: Development, Installation and Set-Up
######## not

The manufactured home must be constructed in conformance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standard (FMHCSS) and be permanently attached to a site-built permanent foundation which meets or exceeds the Minimum Property Standards (MPS) for One- and Two-Family Dwellings or Model Building Codes acceptable to the Agency. The manufactured home must be permanently attached to that foundation by anchoring devices adequate to resist all loads identified in the MPS. This includes resistance to ground movements, seismic shaking, potential shearing, overturning and uplift loads caused by wind. Note that anchoring straps or cables affixed to ground anchors other than footings willmeet these requirements.

7 CFR part 1970 applies on scattered sites, in subdivisions and rental projects with regard to the development, installation and set-up of manufactured homes. To determine the level of environmental analysis required for a particular application, each manufactured home or lot involved will be considered as equivalent to one housing unit or lot. Because the development, installation and set-up of manufactured home communities, including scattered sites, rental projects, and subdivisions, differ in some requirements from conventional site and subdivision development, two of the purposes of this exhibit are to:

A. Encourage economical and orderly development of such communities and nearby areas, and

B. Promote the safety and health of residents of such communities.

Therefore, this exhibit identifies those required standards and regulations and suggested guidelines for eliminating and preventing health and safety hazards and promoting the economical and orderly development and utilization of land for planning and development of manufactured home communities. The exhibit also provides the requirements for meeting the following:
