
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit J to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Manufactured Home Sites, Rental Projects and Subdivisions: Development, Installation and Set-Up
######## General Acceptability Criteria.

I.The following criteria apply to development on scattered sites, in subdivisions and in rental project communities.

A. A manufactured home development including a site, rental project or subdivision shall be located on property designated for that use, where designations exist, by the local jurisdiction.

B. Conditions of soil, ground water level, drainage, flooding and topography shall not create hazards to the property and health or safety of the residents.

C. The finished grade elevation beneath the manufactured home or the first floor elevation of the habitable space, whichever is lower, must be above the 100-year flood elevation. This requirement applies wherever manufactured homes may be installed, not just in locations designated by the National Flood Insurance Program as areas of special flood hazards. The use of fill to accomplish this is a last resort. As is stated in EO 11988 and 7 CFR part 1970, it is the Agency's policy not to approve or fund any proposal in a 100-year floodplain area unless there is no practicable alternative to such a floodplain location.

D. Essential services such as employment centers, shopping, schools, recreation areas, police and fire protection, and garbage and trash removal shall be convenient to the development and any site, community, or subdivision must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

E. Manufactured home sites, rental projects and subdivisions shall not be subject to any adverse influences of adjacent land uses. An adverse influence is considered as one that is out of the acceptable level or range of a recognizable standard or where no standard exists is considered a nuisance irrespective of a site being zoned for manufactured home use. Health, safety and aesthetic consequences of location shall be carefully assessed by inspection of the site prior to selection of development. Undesirable land uses sush as deteriorated residential or commercial areas and noxious industrial properties shall be avoided to ensure compatibility. Other undesirable elements such as heavily traveled highways, airport runways, railroad, or fire hazards and other areas subject to recognizably intolerable noise levels shall be avoided.

F. The requirements for streets shall be those found in subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.

G. The site design and development shall be in accordance with sound engineering and architectural practices and shall provide for all utilities in a manner which allows adequate, economic, safe, energy efficient and dependable systems with sufficient easements for their required installation and maintenance.

H. Utilities for each manufactured home site, rental housing project or subdivision shall be designed and installed in accordance with subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter; and the State health authority having jurisdiction, and all local laws and regulations requiring approval prior to construction.

I. Exhibit C, section V of this subpart shall be complied with by the applicant, dealer-contractor or builder-developer for manufactured home projects with individual water supply and sewage disposal systems. This exhibit shall be used by the Agency County Supervisors, District Directors, and State Directors in reviewing submissions.

J. During the planning, design, and construction of the foundation system and/or perimeter enclosure, provisions shall be made for the installation and connection of on-site water, gas, electrical and sewer systems, which are necessary for the normal operation of the manufactured home. Water and sewer system hookups shall be adequately protected from freezing.
