
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit J to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Manufactured Home Sites, Rental Projects and Subdivisions: Development, Installation and Set-Up
######## Applicable Standards, Regulations and Manuals.

V.A. Manufactured housing to be financed by the Agency must comply with the following standards:

1. Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 CFR part 3280, mandated by Congress under title VI of the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, except for ยง 3280.506, "Heat Loss," of subpart F, "Thermal Protection," to part 3280.

2. Foundation requirements of the Minimum Property Standards as adopted by the Agency or a Model Building Code acceptable to the Agency.

3. [Reserved]

4. Uniform Federal Accessibility Standard (UFAS).

5. ANSI A58.1-1982, Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures.

B. Manufactured housing to be financed by the Agency shall comply with all applicable Agency regulations, including but not limited to the following:

1. Subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter, "Planning and Performing Development Work."

2. Subpart A of part 1924, exhibit D, "Thermal Performance Construction Standards."

3. 7 CFR part 1970.

4. 7 CFR part 3550, "Direct Single Family Housing Loans and Grants."

5. Subpart E of part 1944, "Rural Rental Housing Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations."

The requirements of the above references have not been repeated in this exhibit. Those requirements contained above are either mandatory or minimums and every effort should be made by the applicant, builder-developer or dealer-contractor to utilize higher standards, when appropriate.
