
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit J to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Manufactured Home Sites, Rental Projects and Subdivisions: Development, Installation and Set-Up
######## Inspections.

II.A. The responsibility for frequency and propose of inspections shall be in accordance with ยง 1924.9(b) (1), (2) and (3) of this subpart. The inspection requirements of ยง 1924.13 apply to the planning and conduct of construction work on all 515 housing developments that are more extensive in scope and more complex in nature than those involving an individual manufactured housing unit. The Stage 2 inspection customary for site-built housing when the building is enclosed is not required for manufactured homes.

The Stage 2 inspection for manufactured homes will be made within two working days after erection or placement on the foundation to determine compliance with accepted installation drawings and specifications for installation and set-up and to verify that the correct unit is on the site.

Stages 2 and 3 inspections for manufactured homes may be combined when authorized by the State Director.

B. The borrower will join the County Supervisor or the District Director in making periodic inspections as often as possible and always for the final inspection.

C. The borrower should be encouraged to make enough periodic visits to the site to be familiar with the progress and performance of the work in order to protect the borrower's interest. If the borrower observes or otherwise becomes aware of any fault or defect in the work or nonconformance with the contract documents, the borrower should give prompt written notice thereof to the dealer-contractor and a copy of the notice to the appropriate County Supervisor or District Director.

D. During inspection, it will generally be infeasible to determine whether a manufactured unit erected on a site was properly braced and stiffened during transportation. Inspectors should examine these units to determine that there is no obvious damage or loosening of fastenings that may have occurred during transportation. The dealer-contractor must warrant these units against such damage, which should protect the Agency's interest.
