
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit J to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Manufactured Home Sites, Rental Projects and Subdivisions: Development, Installation and Set-Up
######## Related Facilities (Rental Housing Projects).

C.1. This includes those facilities as defined in ยง 1944.212(e) of subpart E of part 1944 of this chapter.

2. Related facilities built on-site must meet the Agency/MPS and subpart A of part 1924 of this chapter or other building codes approved by by the Agency.

3. Workmanship shall be of a quality equal to good standard practice. Material shall be of such kind and quality as to assure reasonable durability and economy of maintenance, all commensurate with the class of building under consideration.

4. All members and parts of the construction shall be properly designed to carry all loads imposed without detrimental effect on finish or covering materials.

5. The structure shall be adequately braced against lateral stresses and each member shall be correctly fitted and connected.

6. Adequate precautions shall be taken to protect against fire and accidents.

7. All related facilities which require accessibility to the handicapped must comply with the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standard (UFAS).
