
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit J to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Manufactured Home Sites, Rental Projects and Subdivisions: Development, Installation and Set-Up
######## General.

I.Adequate site development and foundation installation drawings and specfications shall be provided by the applicant or dealer-contractor to the Agency to fully describe the construction and other development work. These documents shall be provided according to the requirements of ยง 1924.5(f)(1) of this subpart. Contract documents will be prepared in accordance with ยง 1924.6 and, in the case of multiple family housing construction and development, ยง 1924.13 of this subpart.

A. The documents recommended shall be used as a guide for drawings and specifications to be submitted in support of all types of loan and/or grant applications involving manufactured homes. Adequate and accurate drawings and specifications are necessary to:

1. Determine the acceptability of the physical environment and improvements,

2. Determine compliance with the applicable standards and codes,

3. Review cost estimates, and

4. Provide a basis for financing, inspections, and the warranty.

B. Detailed floor plans, drawings and specifications are not required for any manufactured home to be installed on a scattered site, in a subdivision or rental housing project. However, a schematic floor plan should be submitted by the applicant when applying for Agency financing. The unit must have an affixed label as specified in exhibit D of this subpart indicating that the unit is constructed to the Agency thermal requirements for the appropriate winter degree days. This will indicate that the manufacturer certifies that the unit has been properly inspected and it meets the Agency Thermal Performance Construction Standard.

C. For proposed construction, the builder or dealer-contractor shall submit with the loan or grant application design calculations, details and drawings for the installation, anchorage and construction of the permanent foundations and perimeter enclosure to be used. Drawings and specifications for foundation systems will be reviewed and examined by either the Agency County Supervisor, District Director, or State Architect/Engineer for foundation support locations, loads and connection requirements specified by the manufacturer as a basis for evaluating foundation compliance with the Agency/MPS or Model Building Code, and for determining design suitability for soil conditions. Drawings and specifications will also be examined by the Agency to determine compliance with all other on-site features not covered by the FMHCSS.

D. Foundation design sections and details of all critical construction points systems, anchorage methods, and structural items shall be scaled as necessary to provide all appropriate information 1:30 (3/8&#x2033; = 1&#x2032;-0&#x2033;) minimum.
