
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart A - Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
####### Exhibit L to Subpart A of Part 1924 - Insured 10-Year Home Warranty Plan Requirements

In recent years, numerous third-party home warranty plans have been developed offering new homeowners varying degrees of protection against builder default and/or major structural defects in their homes. This exhibit establishes the criteria and procedures by which a warranty plan is found acceptable for new construction of single family homes financed by the Agency. An acceptable warranty plan will:

A. Assure that the Agency borrowers receive adequate warranty coverage,

B. In certain circumstances, eliminate the requirement for the Agency personnel to make the first two construction inspections, and

C. Permit a loan up to the market value of the security (less the unpaid principal balance and past due interest of any other liens against the security), even though the Agency personnel may not have performed period inspections during construction.

A. An insured warranty company is underwritten by an insurance carrier, licensed to operate as an insurer by the states where the warranty company plans to operate, and has an acceptable rating from a nationally recognized rating company such as A.M. Best Company.

B. A risk retention group is an insurer which is licensed in one state and is authorized, under the Products Liability Risk Retention Act of 1981, to issue its policies in all states. This authority is not challenged by the Agency; however, there remains some question as to the legal propriety of a 10-year insured warranty insurer to be a risk-retention group. If at some future time any state insurance commission or regulatory agency challenges the legal authority of such group, the Agency will reconsider its acceptance of the group.

C. Individual state warranty plans, such as that offered by the State of New Jersey, are backed by the full faith and credit of the state government.

To be considered acceptable, a warranty plan must include the following features:

A. The entire cost (fee, premium, etc.) of the coverage is prepaid and coverage automatically transfers to subsequent owners without additional cost.

B. The coverage is not cancellable by the warrantor (builder), warranty company or insurer.

C. The coverage age includes at least the following:

(1) For one year from the effective date, any defects caused by faulty workmanship of defective materials.

(2) During the second year after the effective date, the warranty continues to cover the wiring, piping and duct work of the electrical, plumbing, heating and cooling systems, plus the items in (3).

(3) During the third through the tenth years, the warranty continues to cover major structural defects. A major structural defect is actual damage to the load-bearing portion of the home including damage due to subsidence, expansion or lateral movement of the soil (excluding movement caused by flood or earthquake) which affects its load-bearing function and which vitally effects or is imminently likely to affect use of the home for residential purposes.

D. A system is provided for complaint (claims) handling which includes a conciliation and, if necessary to resolve matters in dispute, arbitration arranged by the American Arbitration Association or similar organization.

E. A construction inspection plan is required if the Agency is to eliminate the first two Agency inspections or permit a full market value loan when Agency inspections are not conducted.

A. Companies submitting warranty plans for a determination of acceptability must support requests with the following information.

(1) Evidence that the insured warranty company has met the applicable state licensing and/or regulatory requirements in the state in which the company plans to operate.

(2) Evidence that the insurance carrier underwriting the warranty plan is licensed to operate as an insurer in the states in which the company plans to operate and has an acceptable rating from a nationally recognized company such as A.M. Best Company.

(3) State warrenty plan agencies will provide evidence that the plan is backed by the full faith and credit of the state.

(4) A full description of the warranty plan including information on the fees, builder and home registration procedures, required construction standards, construction inspection procedures, coverage provided and claims procedures.

(5) A sample copy of the warranty information and/or policy which is provided to the homeowner.

(6) Suggested means by which Agency field offices can readily assure that the builder is a member in good standing prior to loan approval and that a warrant will be issued upon the completion of construction prior to the final release of funds.

B. Submission and Acceptance:

(1) Insured warranty companies, except those operating as risk retention groups, and state warranty plan agencies will submit their requests and supporting information to the Agency State Director in the state in which they plan to operate. State Directors will determine the acceptability of insured warranty plans and state warranty plans in their jurisdictions, notify the company or agency of the decision in writing and notify field offices by issuance of a State Supplement including the names and addresses of acceptable warranty companies and any other pertinent information.

(2) Warranty companies claiming authority as risk retention groups will submit their requests and supporting information including certification that it has complied with all requirements of the Products Liability Risk Retention Act of 1981 (Pub. L. 97-45) and information indicating the state in which it is licensed, information to the Agency National Office, Single Family Housing Processing Division. The National Office will determine the acceptability of the warranty of a risk retention group, notify the company of the decision in writing and notify field offices by issuance of an attachment to this exhibit.

A. County Supervisors will report inadequate warranty performance through their District Director to the State Director. State Directors will review the situation, assist in resolving any problems and, if necessary, initiate action under subpart F of part 1942 of this chapter. State Directors will inform, by memorandum, the Director, Single Family Housing Processing Division, National Office, of any problems with warranty performance and if any debarment action is initiated.

B. State Directors will annually monitor each warranty company and/or its insurer to assure continued compliance with state licensing and/or regulatory requirements.

The warranty companies listed below claim authority to act as a risk retention group under the Products Liability Risk Retention Act of 1981 and as such, to operate in all States to provide 10-year home warranties. This authority remains subject to future challenges by any State insurance commissioner or regulatory agency; however, until such challenge is made, the Agency accepts their warranty.
