
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart C - Planning and Performing Site Development Work
####### ยง 1924.105 Planning/performing development.
######## Technical Services.

(2)[Reserved]

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) An applicant or developer for a Multiple Family Housing project or a Single Family Housing site which requires technical services under ยง 1924.13(a), must contract for the technical services of an architect, engineer, land surveyor, landscape architect, or site planner, as appropriate, to provide complete planning, drawings, and specifications. Such services may be provided by the applicant's or developer's "in house" staff subject to RHS concurrence. Technical services must be performed by professionals who are qualified and authorized to provide such services in the state in which the project would be developed. All technical services must be provided in accordance with the requirements of professional registration or licensing boards. At completion of all construction or completion of a phase or phases of the total project, the persons providing technical services under this section must notify the RHS field office in writing that all work has been completed in substantial conformance with the approved plans and specifications.

(iii) For developments not specifically required to have technical services under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, such services may be required by the state director when construction of streets or installation of utilities is involved.
