
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart C - Planning and Performing Site Development Work
####### ยง 1924.107 Utilities.
######## Multiple Family Housing.

(2)Proposals processed under this paragraph shall be served by centrally owned and operated water and wastewater disposal systems unless this is determined by RHS to be economically or environmentally not feasible. All central systems, whether they are public, community, or private, shall meet the design requirements of the state department of health or other comparable reviewing and regulatory authority. The regulatory authority will verify in writing that the water and wastewater systems are in compliance with the current provisions of the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Clean Water Act, respectively.

(i) Sites which are not presently served by a central system, but are scheduled for tie-in to the central system within 2 years, should have all lines installed during the initial construction. Such sites must have an approved interim water supply or wastewater disposal system installed capable of satisfactory service until the scheduled tie-in occurs.

(ii) In addition to written assurance of compliance with state and local requirements, there must be assurance of continuous service at reasonable rates for central water and wastewater disposal systems. Public ownership is preferred whenever possible. In cases where interim facilities are installed pending extension or construction of permanent public services, the developer must assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the interim facility or establish an entity for its operation and maintenance which is acceptable to the local governing body. If a system is not or will not be publicly owned and operated, it must comply with one of the following:

(A) Be an organization that meets the ownership and operating requirements for a water or wastewater disposal system that RHS could finance under 7 CFR part 1942, subpart A or be dedicated to and accepted by such an organization.

(B) Be an organization or individual that meets other acceptable methods of ownership and operation as outlined in HUD Handbook 4075.12, "Ownership and Organization of Central Water and Sewerage Systems." RHS should be assured that the organization has the right, in its sole discretion, to enforce the obligation of the operator of the water and sewerage systems to provide satisfactory continuous service at reasonable rates.

(C) Be adequately controlled as to rates and services by a public body (unit of Government or public services commission).

(iii) Multiple family developments of more than 25 units with individual system must have national office concurrence.

(A) [Reserved]

(B) Supporting information for the proposed individual water systems, covering the following points:
