
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart C - Planning and Performing Site Development Work
####### Exhibit B to Subpart C of Part 1924 - Site Development Design Requirements

This exhibit prescribes site development requirements to be used in developing residential sites in all housing programs. These requirements cover only those areas which involve health and safety concerns. They are not intended to cover all aspects of site development. Applicants and developers are expected to follow local practice, as a minimum, in all areas of site development not addressed in this exhibit. When State, local, or other requirements are applicable in addition to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354's requirements, the most stringent requirement shall apply.

Proper integration of the natural features of a site with the manmade improvements is one of the most critical aspects of residential development. Poor site planning in large scale subdivisions, rental projects and individual sites, has resulted in a loss of valuable private and public natural resources and caused economic burdens and conditions unsuitable for healthy and pleasant living. Proper site design can preserve desirable natural features of the site, minimize expenses for streets and utilities, and provide a safe and pleasant living environment.
