
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart C - Planning and Performing Site Development Work
####### Exhibit B to Subpart C of Part 1924 - Site Development Design Requirements
######## Well Construction

3.-a. The well shall be constructed to allow the pump to be easily placed and to function properly.

b. All drilled wells shall be provided with a sound, durable and watertight casing capable of sustaining the loads imposed. The casing shall extend from a point several feet below the water level at drawdown or from an impervious strata above the water level, to 12 inches above either the ground surface or the pump room floor. The casing shall be sealed at the upper opening.

c. Bored wells shall be lined with concrete, vitrified clay, or equivalent materials.

d. The space between the casing or liner and the wall of the well hole shall be sealed with cement grout.

e. The well casing shall not be used to convey water except under positive pressure. A separate drop pipe shall be used for suction line.

f. When sand or silt is encountered in the water-bearing formation, the well shall either be gravel packed, or a removable strainer or screen shall be installed.

g. The surface of the ground above and around the well shall be graded to drain surface water away from the well.

h. Openings in the casing, cap, or concrete cover for the entrance of pipes, pump or manholes, shall be made watertight.

i. If a breather is provided, it shall extend above the highest level to which surface water may rise. The breather shall be watertight, and the open end shall be screened and positioned to prevent entry of dust, insects and foregin objects.
