
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart C - Planning and Performing Site Development Work
####### Exhibit B to Subpart C of Part 1924 - Site Development Design Requirements
######## Individual Water Systems,General.

A.-1.a. In this subpart, an individual water system is a system which serves fewer customers or connections than the lower threshold for community systems stated in the Safe Drinking Water Act.

b. The system for an individual household should be capable of delivering a sustained flow of 5 gpm. A system supplying water to multiple household shall be designed by a Professional Engineer and have sufficient capacity to serve estimated demand. A test of at least 4 hours duration shall be conducted to determine the yield and maximum drawdown for all wells developed as part of an individual water system. This test may be waived by the State Office based on the hydrologic and geologic conditions in the area.

c. Water that requires continual or repetitive treatment to be safe bacterially is not acceptable.

d. After installation, the system should be disinfected in accordance with the recommendations of the health authority. In the absence of a health authority, system cleaning and disinfection should conform with the current EPA Manual of Individual Water Supply Systems.

e. Any method for individual water supply contained herein which is not permitted by the local health authority having jurisdiction shall not be used.
