
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart C - Planning and Performing Site Development Work
####### Exhibit C to Subpart C of Part 1924 - Checklist of Visual Exhibits and Documentation for RRH, RCH, and LH Proposals
######## Other.

L.The applicant will need to submit any additional information that may be needed as indicated in the respective loan program regulations as indicated in part 1944, subparts D and E and part 1822, subpart F of this chapter (FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Instruction 444.7). This may include but not be limited to:

1. A detailed trade-item cost breakdown of the project for such items as land and right-of-way, building construction, equipment, utility connections, architectural/engineering and legal fees, and both on- and off-site improvements. The cost breakdown also should show separately the items not included in the loan, such as furnishings and equipment. This trade-item cost breakdown should be updated just prior to loan approval.

2. Information on the method of construction, on the proposed contractor if a construction contract is to be negotiated and on the architectural, engineering, and legal services to be provided.

3. For all projects containing over four units the applicant will submit an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan for approval by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in accordance with ยง 1901.203 of subpart E to part 1901 of this chapter. The Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan must be prepared in a complete, meaningful, responsive and detailed manner.

4. A description and justification of any related facilities (including but not limited to workshops, community buildings, recreation center, central cooking and dining facilities, or other similar facilities to meet essential needs) to be financed wholly or in part with loan funds.
