
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart F - Complaints and Compensation for Construction Defects
####### ยง 1924.259 Handling dwelling construction complaints.

This section describes the procedure for handling construction defect complaints.

(a) Each borrower who complains about construction defects will be requested to make a written complaint using a Rural Development approved format. All known defects will be listed. An oral complaint may be accepted if making a written complaint will impose a hardship on the borrower. If an oral complaint is made, Rural Development will notify the contractor on behalf of the borrower.

(b) The borrower will be informed that if, after 30 calendar days, the defects have not been corrected or other satisfactory arrangements made by the contractor, the borrower should notify Rural Development using a Rural Development approved format.

(c) Rural Development will advise the contractor in writing of the borrower's complaint, the time and date of planned inspection by Rural Development personnel, and request that the contractor accompany the inspector and borrower on a joint inspection of the property in an attempt to resolve the complaint.

(d) If, prior to the planned inspection, the contractor informs Rural Development that the alleged defect(s) has been or will be corrected within 30 calendar days, Rural Development will notify the borrower.

(e) If the case is not resolved as outlined in paragraph (d) of this section, Rural Development will:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Notify the borrower, contractor and manufacturer, if applicable, in writing of the findings and who has been determined responsible for correcting the defect(s).

(i) If the defects are determined to be covered under the contractor's warranty, Rural Development will advise the contractor that the repairs must be completed within 30 calendar days or other time period agreed to by the borrower, the contractor, and Rural Development.

(ii) Rural Development will further advise the contractor and/or manufacturer that if the defect(s) are not corrected, the Government will consider compensating the borrower for the costs of correcting the defect(s). In such a case, the contractor and/or manufacturer may be liable for costs paid by the Government and may be subject to suspension and/or debarment pursuant to subpart M of part 1940 of this chapter (available in any Rural Development office). Even if the manufacturer is determined to be solely responsible for the defect, the contractor will still be held liable for correction of the defect.

(3) Should a contractor refuse to correct a defect after being officially requested in writing to do so, Rural Development will promptly institute formal suspension and debarment proceedings against the contractor (as a company and as individual(s)) in accordance with subpart M of part 1940 of this chapter (available in any Rural Development office). The contractor's failure to reply to official correspondence or inability to correct a defect constitutes noncompliance.

(4) If the contractor is willing to correct legitimate defects but the borrower refuses to permit this, Rural Development will document the facts in the borrower's case file. If the borrower chooses to file a claim for compensation for these defects, the circumstances of the borrower's refusal will be reviewed and may be sufficient grounds for disapproval of the claim.

(f)-(h) [Reserved]
