
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart F - Complaints and Compensation for Construction Defects
####### ยง 1924.253 Definitions.
######## Structural defect.

(d)A defect in the dwelling or unit, installation or set-up of a unit, or a related facility or a deficiency in the site or site development which directly and significantly reduces the useful life, habitability, or integrity of the dwelling or unit. The defect may be due to faulty material, poor workmanship, or latent causes that existed when the dwelling or unit was constructed. The term includes, but is not limited to:

(1) Structural failures which directly and significantly affect the basic integrity of the dwelling or unit such as in the foundation, footings, basement walls, slabs, floors, framing, walls, ceiling, or roof.

(2) Major deficiencies in the utility components of the dwelling or unit or site such as faulty wiring, or failure of sewage disposal or water supply systems located on the property securing the loan caused by faulty materials or improper installation.

(3) Serious defects in or improper installation of heating systems or central air conditioning.

(4) Defects in or improper installation of safety and security devices, such as windows, external doors, locks, smoke detectors, railings, etc., as well as failure to provide or properly install devices to aid occupancy of dwellings by handicapped individuals, where required.

(5) Defects in or improper installation of protective materials, such as insulation, siding, roofing material, exterior paint, etc.
