
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart F - Complaints and Compensation for Construction Defects
####### ยง 1924.252 Policy.

Rural Development is responsible for receiving and resolving all complaints concerning the construction of dwellings and the construction, installation and set-up of units financed by Rural Development. Rural Development must determine whether defects are structural or non-structural. If the defect is structural and is covered by the builder's/dealer-contractor's (the "contractor") warranty, the contractor is expected to correct the defect. If the contractor cannot or will not correct the defect, the costs of correcting the defect may be paid by the Government, or the borrower may be compensated for correcting the defect, under the provisions of this subpart. If the defect is non-structural but is covered under the provisions of the contractor's warranty or independent home warranty, the contractor is still expected to correct the defect. Rural Development will assist the borrower in obtaining assistance through the independent home warranty company's and/or manufacturer's complaint resolution process. However, if the contractor cannot or will not correct a non-structural defect covered under the provisions of the contractor's warranty, the Government will not pay the costs for correcting the defect, nor will the borrower be compensated for doing so.
