
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1924 - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
###### Subpart F - Complaints and Compensation for Construction Defects
####### ยง 1924.266 Purposes for which claims may be approved.
######## Ineligible purposes.

(b)Compensation will not be granted for:

(1) Completion of a dwelling or unit or installation of materials/items required under the construction contract and/or specifications.

(2) Defective items which were not completed under the contract method or under the conditional commitment and supported by a builder's warranty. Work performed under the borrower method or self-help program without a warranty by a responsible party is not eligible for compensation.

(3) Damage caused by defective design, workmanship, or material in making enhancements to or remodeling the dwelling or unit or related facilities which were not financed or approved by Rural Development.

(4) The loss of past, present or future wages or salary directly or indirectly resulting from the defect.

(5) Treatment for physical or psychological damages including medical and dental claims.

(6) Death benefits or funeral expenses.

(7) Damages encountered as a result of war, civil disorder, flood, tornado, lightning, earthquake or acts of nature which the structure was not designed to withstand.

(8) Damages resulting from the homeowner's negligence or failure to properly maintain the property.

(9) Damage to personal property.
