
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1925 - TAXES
###### Subpart A - Real Estate Tax Servicing
####### ยง 1925.3 Servicing taxes.

(a) The County Supervisor will be responsible for ascertaining that all mortgaged real estate is listed properly for tax purposes.

(b) The County Supervisor will be responsible for taking all actions in connection with taxes as may be necessary to protect the Government's security interests. Any unusual situations that may arise with respect to tax servicing should be referred to the State Office for consideration.

(c) The County Supervisor will encourage each borrower to pay taxes promptly in order to avoid any penalties. Normally, this can be accomplished through routine servicing of loans by emphasizing the advantages of setting aside sufficient income to meet tax obligations when they become due. Taxes will be adequately budgeted for those borrowers with whom Form RD 431-2, "Farm and Home Plan," is developed. Each borrower will be encouraged to notify the County Supervisor when he has paid his taxes. After the delinquent date, it will be necessary for the County Supervisor to determine the borrowers whose taxes are delinquent. The Multi-Family Housing Information System (MFIS) will be used in posting servicing actions on delinquent taxes.
