
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1927 - TITLE CLEARANCE AND LOAN CLOSING
###### Subpart B - Real Estate Title Clearance and Loan Closing
####### ยง 1927.54 Requirements for closing agents.
######## Approval of closing agent.

(b)An attorney or title company may act as a closing agent and close agency real estate loans, provide necessary title clearance, and perform such other duties as required in this subpart. A closing agent will be responsible for closing agency loans and disbursing both agency loan funds and funds provided by the borrower in connection with the agency loan so as to obtain title and security position as required by the agency. The closing agent must be covered by a fidelity bond which will protect the agency unless a closing protection letter is provided to the agency. The borrower will select the approved closing agent. If title clearance is by an attorney's opinion, the agency will approve the attorney who will perform the closing in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The attorney will be approved after submitting a certification acceptable to the agency. If title certification is by means of a policy of title insurance, the title company which will issue the policy must have been approved in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. A closing agent's delay in providing services without justification in connection with agency loans may be a basis for not approving the closing agent in future cases.
