
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1927 - TITLE CLEARANCE AND LOAN CLOSING
###### Subpart B - Real Estate Title Clearance and Loan Closing
####### ยง 1927.54 Requirements for closing agents.
######## Approval of attorneys.

(c)Any attorney selected by an applicant, who will be providing title clearance where the certificate of title will be an attorney's opinion, must submit an agency form certifying to professional liability insurance coverage. If the attorney is also the closing agent, fidelity coverage for the attorney and any employee having access to the funds must be provided. The agency will determine the appropriate level of such insurance. Required insurance will, as a minimum, cover the amount of the loan to be closed. The agency will approve the form stipulating the bond coverage. The agency will approve any attorney who is duly licensed to practice law in the state where the real estate security is located and who complies with the bonding and insurance requirements in this section. If the certification of title will be by means of title insurance, any attorney or closing agent designated as an approved attorney or closing agent by the approved title insurance company which will issue the policy of title insurance will be acceptable, and when covered by a closing protection letter, will not be required to obtain professional liability insurance or a fidelity bond. Each approved title insurance company may provide a master list of their approved attorneys that are covered by its closing protection letters to the State Office and, in such cases the attorneys are approved for closings for that title insurance company. Delay in providing closing services without justification may be a basis for not approving the attorney in future cases.
