
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1927 - TITLE CLEARANCE AND LOAN CLOSING
###### Subpart B - Real Estate Title Clearance and Loan Closing
####### ยง 1927.57 Preparation of closing documents.
######## Agreement by holder of seller's interest under land purchase contract.

(4)If the buyer's interest in the security property is that of a buyer under a land purchase contract, it will be necessary for the seller to execute, in recordable form, an agreement containing all of the following provisions:

(i) The seller shall agree not to sell or voluntarily transfer the seller's interest under the land purchase contract without the prior written consent of the State Office.

(ii) The seller shall agree not to encumber or cause any liens to be levied against the property.

(iii) The seller shall agree not to commence or take any action to accelerate, forfeit, or foreclose the buyer's interest in the security property until a specified period of time after notifying the State Office of intent to do so. This period of time will be 90 days unless a State Supplement provides otherwise. The agreement shall give the agency the option to cure any monetary default by paying the amount of the buyer's delinquent payments to the seller, or paying the seller in full and having the contract assigned to the agency.

(iv) The seller shall consent to the agency making the loan and taking a security interest in the borrower's interest under the land purchase contract as security for the agency loan.

(v) The seller shall agree not to take any actions to foreclose or forfeit the interest of the buyer under the land purchase contract because the agency has acquired the buyer's interest under the land purchase contract by foreclosure or voluntary conveyance, or because the agency has subsequently sold or assigned the buyer's interest to a third party who will assume the buyer's obligations under the land purchase contract.

(vi) When the agency acquires a buyer's interest under a land purchase contract by foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure, the agency will not be deemed to have assumed any of the buyer's obligations under the contract, provided that the failure of the agency to perform any such obligations while it holds the buyer's interest is a ground to commence an action to terminate the land purchase contract.

(5)-(6) [Reserved]

(e) [Reserved]
