
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart L - Methodology and Formulas for Allocation of Loan and Grant Program Funds
####### ยง 1940.560 Guarantee Rural Rental Housing Program.
######## Basic formula criteria, data source and weight.

(b)See ยง 1940.552(b) of this subpart .

Each factor will receive a weight respectively of 40%, 40% and 20%. The criteria used in the basic formula are:

(1) State's percentage of National rural population,

(2) State's percentage of the National number of rural households between 50 and 115 percent of the area median income, and

(3) State's percentage of National average cost per unit. The data source for the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census). The data source for the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. The data source for the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is the cost per unit data using the applicable maximum per unit dollar amount limitations under section 207(c) of the National Housing Act, which can be obtained from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The percentage representing each criterion is multiplied by the weight assigned and totaled to arrive at a State factor.

State Factor = (criterion No. 1 x weight of 40%) + (criterion No. 1 x weight of 40%) + (criterion No. 1 x weight of 20%)
