
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart L - Methodology and Formulas for Allocation of Loan and Grant Program Funds
####### ยง 1940.563 Section 502 non-subsidized guaranteed Rural Housing (RH) loans.
######## Basic formula criteria, data source and weight.

(b)See ยง 1940.552 (b) of this subpart. The criteria used in the basic formula are:

(1) State's percentage of the National number of rural occupied substandard units,

(2) State's percentage of the National rural population in places of less than 2,500 population,

(3) State's percentage of the national number of rural households between 80 and 100 percent of the area median income, and

(4) State's percentage of the national number of rural renter households paying more than 35 percent of income for rent. The data source for each criterion is specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Each criterion is assigned a specific weight according to its relevance in determining need. The percentage representing each criterion is multiplied by the weight factor and summed to arrive at a basic State factor (SF) as follows:

SF = (criterion 1 x weight of 30%) + (criterion 2 x weight of 10%) + (criterion 3 x weight of 30%) + (criterion 4 x weight of 30%)

(5) The data source for the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section is the most recent decennial Census. The data source for the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section is 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data.
