
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart L - Methodology and Formulas for Allocation of Loan and Grant Program Funds
####### ยง 1940.588 Business and Industry Guaranteed and Direct Loans, Rural Business Development Grants, and Intermediary Relending Program.
######## Basic formula criteria, data source and weight.

(2)See ยง 1940.552(b) of this subpart.

(i) The criteria used in the basic formula are:

(A) State's percentage of national rural population.

(B) State's percentage of national rural population with incomes below the poverty level.

(C) State's percentage of national nonmetropolitan unemployment.

(ii) The data sources for each of the criteria identified in paragraph (a) of this section are:

(A) For the criterion specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A), the most recent decennial Census data.

(B) For the criterion specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B), 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data.

(C) For the criterion specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(C), the most recent Bureau of Labor Statistics data.

(iii) Each criterion is assigned a specific weight factor according to its relevance in determining need. The percentage representing each criterion is multiplied by the weight factor and summed to arrive at State Factor (SF). The SF cannot exceed 0.05. The Agency may elect to use different weight factors than those identified in this paragraph by publishing a timely notice in the

(iv) The Agency will recalculate, as necessary, each criterion specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section each year. In making these recalculations, the Agency will use the most recent data available to the Agency as of October 1 of the fiscal year for which the Agency is making State allocations. Each criterion's value determined at the beginning of a fiscal year for a program will be used for that entire fiscal year, regardless of when that fiscal year's funding becomes available for the program.
