
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart L - Methodology and Formulas for Allocation of Loan and Grant Program Funds
####### Exhibit B to Subpart L of Part 1940 - Section 515 Nonprofit Set Aside (NPSA)
######## SSASA.

2.In SSASA States, AD-622s should not exceed the greater of $750,000 or 150 percent of the amount the State contributed to the SSASA; except that the State Director in a SSASA State may request authorization to issue a Form AD-622, in an amount in excess of $750,000 if additional funds are necessary to finance an average-size proposal based upon average construction costs in the state. For example, if the average size proposal currently being funded in the state is 24 units, and the average construction cost in the state is $35,000 per unit, the state may request authorization to issue an AD-622 for $840,000. The State Director will submit such requests to the National Office including data reflecting average size/cost projects in the State. No single Form AD-622 may exceed the amount of funds the State may receive from SSASA.

D. All AD-622s issued for proposals to be funded from NPSA will be subject to the availability of NPSA funds. Form AD-622 should contain the following or similar language: "This Form AD-622 is issued subject to the availability of Nonprofit Set-Aside (NPSA) funds."

E. If a preapplication requesting NPSA funds has sufficient priority points to compete with non-NPSA loan requests based upon the District or State allocation (as applicable), the preapplication will be maintained on both the NPSA and non-NPSA rating/ranking lists.

F. Provisions for providing preference to loan requests from nonprofit organizations is contained in 7 CFR 3560.56. Limited partnerships, with a nonprofit general partner, do not qualify for nonprofit preference.
