
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart L - Methodology and Formulas for Allocation of Loan and Grant Program Funds
####### Exhibit C to Subpart L of Part 1940 - Housing in Underserved Areas

A. To improve the quality of affordable housing by targeting funds under Rural Housing Targeting Set Aside (RHTSA) to designated areas that have extremely high concentrations of poverty and substandard housing and have severe, unmet rural housing needs.

B. To provide for the eligibility of certain colonias for rural housing funds.

The Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990 (herein referred to as the "Act") requires that Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 set aside section 502, 504, 514, 515, and 524 funds for assistance in targeted, underserved areas. An appropriate amount of section 521 new construction rental assistance (RA) is set aside for use with section 514 and 515 loan programs. Under the Act, certain colonias are now eligible for FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 housing assistance.

A. Colonia is defined as any identifiable community that:

1. Is in the State of Arizona, California, New Mexico or Texas;

2. Is in the area of the United States within 150 miles of the border between the United States and Mexico, except that the term does not include any standard metropolitan statistical area that has a population exceeding 1 million;

3. Is designated by the State or county in which it is located as a colonia;

4. Is determined to be a colonia on the basis of objective criteria, including lack of potable water supply, lack of adequate sewage systems, and lack of decent, safe, and sanitary housing; and

5. Was in existence and generally recognized as a colonia before November 28, 1990.

B. Requests for housing assistance in colonias have priority as follows:

1. When the State did not obligate its allocation in one or more of its housing programs during the previous 2 fiscal years (FYs), priority will be given to requests for assistance, in the affected program(s), from regularly allocated funds, until an amount equal to 5 percent of the current FY program(s) allocation is obligated in colonias. This priority takes precedence over other processing priority methods.

2. When the State did obligate its allocation in one or more of its housing programs during the previous 2 FYs, priority will be given to requests for assistance, in the affected program(s), from RHTSA funds, until an amount equal to 5 percent of the current FY program(s) allocation is obligated in colonias. This priority takes precedence over other processing priority methods.

C. Colonias may access pooled RHTSA funds as provided in paragraph IV G of this exhibit.
