
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart T - System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs
####### ยง 1940.951 General.
######## et seq.

This subpart sets forth Rural Development policies and procedures for the delivery of certain rural development programs under a rural economic development review panel established in eligible States authorized under sections 365, 366, 367, and 368 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921), as amended.

(a) If a State desires to participate in this pilot program, the Governor of the State may submit an application to the Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development, U.S. Department of Agriculture, room 219-A, Administration Building, Washington, DC 20250 in accordance with ยง 1940.954 of this subpart.

(b) The Under Secretary shall designate not more than five States in which to make rural economic development review panels applicable during any established time period for the purpose of reviewing and ranking applications submitted for funding under certain rural development programs. The following time periods have been established for participation in this pilot program:

The State will be bound by the provisions of this pilot program only during the established time period(s) for which the State is designated. If a designated State does not remain an eligible State during the established time period(s) for which the State was designated, the State will not be eligible to participate in this program and cannot revert to the old ranking and applicant selection process.

(c) Assistance under each designated rural development program shall be provided to eligible designated States for qualified projects in accordance with this subpart.

(d) Federal statutes provide for extending Rural Development financially supported programs without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, age, familial status, or physical/mental handicap (provided the participant possesses the capacity to enter into legal contracts.)
