
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart T - System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs
####### § 1940.954 State participation.
######## Application.

(a)If a State desires to participate in this pilot program, the Governor may submit an original and one copy of Standard Form (SF) 424.1, "Application for Federal Assistance (For Non-construction)," to the Under Secretary. The five States designated by the Under Secretary to participate in the first established time period will be selected from among applications received not later than 60 calendar days from the effective date of this subpart. If a designated State desires to participate in additional time periods, applications are not required to be resubmitted; however, the Governor must notify the Under Secretary, in writing, no later than July 31 of each FY, and the State must submit evidence of eligibility requirements each FY in accordance with § 1940.954 (e)(2) of this subpart. Beginning in FY 1993, applications must be submitted to the Under Secretary no later than July 31 if a State desires to be selected to fill vacancies that occur when designated States do not roll over into another established time period. States should include the following information with SF 424.1:

(1) A narrative signed by the Governor including reasons for State participation in this program and reasons why a project review and ranking process by a State panel will improve the economic and social conditions of rural areas in the State. The narrative will also include the time period(s) for which the State wishes to participate.

(2) A proposal outlining the method for meeting all the following eligibility requirements and the timeframes established for meeting each requirement:

(i) Establishing a rural economic development review panel in accordance with § 1940.956 of this subpart. When established, the name, title, and address of each proposed member should be included and the chairperson and vice chairperson should be identified.

(ii) Governor's proposed designation of a State agency to support the State coordinator and the panel. The name, address, and telephone number of the proposed agency's contact person should be included.

(iii) Governor's proposed selection of a State coordinator in accordance with § 1940.957 of this subpart, including the title, address, and telephone number.

(iv) Development of area development plans for all areas of the State that are eligible to receive assistance from designated rural development programs.

(v) The review and evaluation of area development plans by the panel in accordance with § 1940.956 of this subpart.

(vi) Development of written policy and criteria used by the panel to review and evaluate area plans in accordance with § 1940.956 of this subpart.

(vii) Development of written policy and criteria the panel will use to evaluate and rank applications in accordance with § 1940.956 of this subpart.

(3) Preparation of a proposed budget that includes 3 years projections of income and expenses associated with panel operations. If funds from other sources are anticipated, sources and amounts should be identified.

(4) Development of a financial management system that will provide for effective control and accountability of all funds and assets associated with the panel.

(5) A schedule to coordinate the submission, review, and ranking process of preapplications/applications in accordance with § 1940.956(a) of this subpart.

(6) Other information provided by the State in support of its application.
