
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart T - System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs
####### ยง 1940.956 State rural economic development review panel.
######## Rank preapplications/applications.

(ii)The panel will rank only those preapplications/applications that have been accepted in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section. The panel will consider the sources of assistance and related activities in the State identified by the designated agency. Applications will be ranked in accordance with the written policy and criteria established in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and the following:

(A) Priority ranking for projects addressing health emergencies. In addition to the criteria established in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, preapplications/applications for projects designed to address a health emergency declared so by the appropriate Federal or State agency, will be given priority by the panel.

(B) Priority based on need. If two or more preapplications/applications ranked in accordance with this subpart are determined to have comparable strengths in their feasibility and potential for growth, the panel will give priority to the applications for projects with the greatest need.

(C) If additional ranking criteria for use by a panel are required in any designated rural development program regulation, the panel will give consideration to the criteria when ranking preapplications/applications submitted under that program.
