
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart T - System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs
####### ยง 1940.968 Rural Economic Development Review Panel Grant (Panel Grant).
######## Grant approval, obligation of funds, and grant closing.

(j)(1) The State Director will review the application and other documents to determine whether the proposal complies with this subpart.

(2) Exhibit A of this subpart (available from any Rural Development State Office) shall be attached to and become a permanent part of Form RD 1940-1 and the following paragraphs will appear in the comment section of that form:

(3) Grants will be approved and obligated in accordance with the applicable parts of ยง 1942.5(d) of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter.

(4) An executed copy of the Scope-of-Work will be sent to the State coordinator on the obligation date, along with a copy of Form RD 1940-1 and the required exhibit. Rural Development will retain the original of Form RD 1940-1 and the exhibit.

(5) Grants will be closed in accordance with the applicable parts of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter, including ยง 1942.7. The grant is considered closed on the obligation date.

(6) A copy of Form RD 1940-1, with the required exhibit, and the Scope-of-Work will be submitted to the National Office when funds are obligated.

(7) If the grant is not approved, the State coordinator will be notified in writing of the reason(s) for rejection. The notification will state that a review of the decision by Rural Development may be requested by the State under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.
