
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart T - System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs
####### ยง 1940.968 Rural Economic Development Review Panel Grant (Panel Grant).
######## Application processing.

(i)(1) The State Director shall assist the State in application assembly and processing. Processing requirements should be discussed during an application conference.

(2) After the Governor has been notified that the State has been designated to participate in this program and the State has met all eligibility requirements of this subpart, the State may file an original and one copy of SF 424.1 with the State Director. The following information will be included with the application:

(i) State's financial or in-kind resources, if applicable, that will maximize the use of Panel Grant funds;

(ii) Proposed budget. The financial budget that is part of SF 424.1 may be used, if sufficient, for all panel income and expense categories;

(iii) Estimated breakdown of costs, including costs to be funded by the grantee or from other sources;

(iv) Financial management system in place or proposed. The system will account for grant funds in accordance with State laws and procedures for expending and accounting for its own funds. Fiscal control and accounting procedures of the State must be sufficient to permit preparation of reports required by Federal regulations and permit the tracing of funds to a level of expenditures adequate to establish that grant funds are used solely for authorized purposes;

(v) Method to evaluate panel activities and determine if objectives are met;

(vi) Proposed Scope-of-Work detailing activities associated with the panel and time frames for completion of each task, and

(vii) Other information that may be needed by Rural Development to make a grant award determination.

(3) The applicable provisions of ยง 1942.5 of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter relating to preparation of loan dockets will be followed in preparing grant dockets. The docket will include at least the following:

(i) Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement;"

(ii) Scope-of-work prepared by the applicant and approved by Rural Development;

(iii) Form RD 1940-1, "Request for Obligation of Funds," with exhibit A, and

(iv) Certification regarding a drug-free workplace in accordance with RD Instruction 1940-M (available in any Rural Development office).
