
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1940 - GENERAL
###### Subpart T - System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs
####### ยง 1940.968 Rural Economic Development Review Panel Grant (Panel Grant).
######## Financial reporting.

(p)SF 269, "Financial Status Report," and a Project Performance Report are required on a quarterly basis. The reports will be submitted to the State Director not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter. A final SF 269 and Project Performance Report shall be due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant support. The final report may serve as the last quarterly report. The State coordinator will constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are met, projected work by time periods is accomplished, and other performance objectives are achieved. Program outlays and income will be reported on an accrual basis. Project Performance Reports shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period;

(2) Reasons why established objectives were not met;

(3) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will affect the ability to meet the objectives of the grant during established time periods. This disclosure must include a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation; and

(4) Objectives and timetable established for the next reporting period.
