
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.1 General.

(a) This subpart outlines the policies and procedures for making and processing direct loans for Community Facilities except fire and rescue and other small essential community facility loans and water and waste disposal facilities. This subpart applies to Community Facilities loans for fire and rescue and other small essential community facility loans only as specifically provided for in subpart C of this part. Water and waste loans are provided for in part 1780 of this title.

(1) The policies and procedures in this subpart address both loans between the Agency and the applicant and between the Agency and an approved eligible re-lender who then relends the funds to eligible applicants for eligible projects under this subpart.

(2) The Agency shall cooperate fully with State, Tribal and local agencies in making loans to assure maximum support to the State and Tribal strategies for rural development. State Directors and their staffs shall maintain coordination and liaison with State agency and substate planning districts. Funds allocated for use under this subpart are also for the use of Indian tribes within the State, regardless of whether State development strategies include Indian reservations within the State's boundaries. Indians residing on such reservations must have equal opportunity to participate in the benefits of these programs as compared with other residents of the State.

(3) Federal statutes provide for extending Agency financial programs without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, age, or physical/mental handicap. The participants must possess the capacity to enter into legal contracts under State and local statutes.

(4) Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this chapter. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with an Agency employee.

(b) Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other Federally recognized Indian tribes are eligible to apply for and are encouraged to participate in this program. Such tribes might not be subject to State and local laws or jurisdiction. However, any requirements of this subpart that affect applicant eligibility, the adequacy of Agency's security or the adequacy of service to users of the facility and all other requirements of this subpart must be met.

(c) Loans sold without insurance by RD to the private sector will be serviced in the private sector and will not be serviced under this subpart. The provisions of this subpart are not applicable to such loans. Future changes to this subpart will not be made applicable to such loans.

(d) The District Office will normally be the entry point for preapplications and serve as a local point. Applications will be filed with the District Office and loans will be processed to the maxium extent possible by the District Office staff. The applicant's governing body should designate one person to coordinate the activities of its engineer, architect, attorney, and any other professional employees and to act as contact person during loan processing. Agency personnel should make every effort to involve the applicant's contact person when meeting with the applicant's professional consultants and/or agents. The State Office staff will monitor community programs loanmaking and servicing, and will provide assistance to District Office personnel to the extent necessary to assure that the activities are being accomplished in an orderly manner consistent with Agency regulations.

(e) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200 as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.
