
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.2 Processing applications.
######## Applications.

(c)The District Director should assist the applicant in application assembly and processing.

(1) State Directors should have applications in process representing approximately 150 percent of the current State allocation.

(2) The application docket will include SF 424.2, and related forms, materials, and information. The application will be assembled in accordance with guide 15 of this subpart or State guides developed under ยง 1942.16 of this subpart.

(3) When an applicant is notified to proceed with an application, the District Director should arrange for a conference with the applicant to provide copies of appropriate appendices and forms; furnish guidance necessary for orderly application processing; and to initiate a processing checklist for establishing a time schedule for completing items using Form RD 1942-39, "Processing Check List (Other Than Public Bodies)," or Form RD 1942-40, "Processing Check List (Public Bodies)," or other checklist adopted for use in the State. The District Director will confirm decisions made at this conference by letter to the applicant and by a copy of the processing checklist. The original and a copy of the processing checklist will be retained in the District Office and a copy will be forwarded to the State Office. The original and copy of the checklist retained in the District Office will be kept current as application processing actions are taken. The copy will be sent to the State Office to use in updating its copy of this form. The State Office will then return the District Office's copy. As the application is being processed, and the need develops for additional conferences, the District Director will arrange with the applicant for such conference to extend and update the processing checklist.
