
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.5 Application review and approval.
######## Loan approval and obligating funds.

(d)Loans will be approved under this subpart and subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter (available in any Rural Development office). The loan will be considered approved on the date the signed copy of Form RD 1940-1 is mailed to the applicant. The State Director or designee may request an obligation of funds when available within their State allocation and according to the following:

(1) Form RD 1940-1, authorizing funds to be reserved, may be executed by the loan approval official providing the applicant has the legal authority to contract for a loan and to enter into required agreements and has signed Form RD 1940-1.

(2) If approval was concurred in by the National Office, a copy of the concurring memorandum will be attached to the original of Form RD 1940-1.

(3) The State Director or designee will request an obligation of loan and/or grant funds via the automated terminal system after signing Form RD 1940-1. The requesting official will furnish security identification as necessary. The requesting official will record the date, time of request, and their initials on the original Form RD 1940-1.

(4) The date the applicant is notified of loan and/or grant approval is six working days from the date funds are reserved unless an exception is granted by the National Office.

(5) Immediately after verifying that funds have been reserved, utilizing the Rural Development Field Office terminal system status inquiry function, the State Director or designee will notify by telephone, the Legislative and Public Affairs Staff in the Rural Development National Office as required by RD Instruction 2015-C, "Announcement of Approval of Loans, Grants, or Guaranteed Loans for Rural Project," (available in any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Office).

(6) Loan approval and applicant notification will be accomplished by the State Director or designee by mailing to the applicant, 6 working days from the obligation date, a copy of Form RD 1940-1 which has been previously signed by the applicant and loan approval official. The date the applicant is notified is also the date the interest rate at loan approval is established. The State Director or designee will record the date of applicant notification and the interest rate in effect at that time on the original of Form RD 1940-1 and include it as a permanent part of the District Director project file with a copy placed in the State Office file.

(7) If a transfer of obligation of funds is necessary, complete Form RD 450-10, "Advice of Borrower's Change of Address, Name, Case Number, or Loan Number," and process via the Rural Development Field Office terminal system. An obligation of funds established for an applicant may be transferred to a different (substituted) applicant provided:

(i) The substituted applicant is eligible to receive the assistance approved for the original applicant; and

(ii) The substituted applicant bears a close and genuine relationship to the original applicant (such as two organizations that are controlled by the same individuals); and

(iii) The need for and scope of the project and the purpose(s) for which Rural Development funds will be used remain substantially unchanged.
