
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.5 Application review and approval.
######## Project requiring National Office review.

(b)Prior National Office review is required for certain proposals (See subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter).

(1) The Rural Development Manager should assemble applications for the National Office review in the following order from top to bottom and forward them to the State Director for review and recommedation prior to submission to the National Office:

(i) Transmittal memorandum including:

(A) Recommendation.

(B) Date of expected obligation.

(C) Any unusual circumstances.

(ii) Copies of the following:

(A) Proposed letter of conditions.

(B) Applicable State Intergovernmental Review comments, if the program or activity has been selected under the State. RD Instruction 1970-I, available in any Rural Development office.

(C) Community Facilities Project Summary.

(D) Preliminary architectural or engineering report.

(E) Form RD 442-3, "Balance Sheet," or a financial statement or audit that includes a balance sheet.

(F) For other essential community facility loan applicants whose proposals do not meet the assured income or tax based security requirements of ยง 1942.17 (g)(2)(iii) and (g)(3)(iii) of this subpart, financial information for the last five years of operation will be submitted if available. The type of financial information to be submitted should be determined based on what is available and the following order of preference:
