
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.5 Application review and approval.
######## For all applications.

(c)All letters of conditions will be addressed to the applicant, signed by the Rural Development Manager or other Agency representative designated by the State Director, and delivered to the applicant. Upon signing the letter of conditions, the Rural Development Manager will send two copies of the letter of conditions and two copies of the project summary to the State Director. The State Director will immediately send one copy of the project summary and a copy of the letter of conditions to the National Office, Attention: Community Programs. The Rural Development Manager, with assistance as needed from the State Office, will discuss the requirements of the letter of conditions with the applicant's representatives and afford them an opportunity to execute Form RD 1942-46.

(1) The letter of conditions should not ordinarily be issued unless the State Director expects to have adequate funds in the State allocation to fund the project within the next 12 months based on historic allocations or other reliable projections.

(2) If the applicant declines to execute Form RD 1942-46, the Rural Development Manager will immediately notify the State Director and provide complete information as to the reasons for such declination.

(3) If the applicant accepts the letter of conditions, the Rural Development Manager will forward the executed Form RD 1942-46 and a signed and an unsigned copy of Form RD 1940-1 to the State Director.
