
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.5 Application review and approval.
######## Procedures for review.

(a)The Rural Development staff review will proceed as applications are being developed. An overall review of the applicant's financial status, including a review of all assets and liabilities, will be a part of the docket review process by the staff and approval officials. The engineering/architect reports and associated data are to be reviewed by the Rural Development staff engineer or architect, as appropriate, as soon as available but prior to the District Director's completion of the project summary. During the review the District Director in all cases will make certain that no low income or minority community within the service area has been omitted or discouraged from participating in the proposed project. The District Director will also determine how the service area was defined to assure that gerrymandering of specific communities or areas has not occurred. The findings should be documented in the running record. Prior to presenting the assembled application to the approval official, the assembled application ordinarily will be processed in the following sequence:

(1) The Rural Development manager will complete the project summary, including written analysis and recommendations, and will prepare a draft letter of conditions listing all the requirements that the applicant must agree to meet within a specific time.

(i) Requirements listed in letters of conditions will include the following unless inappropriate due to the particular type of funding or entity involved: Maximum amount of loan and/or grant which may be considered, scheduling of payments, term of loan and any deferment of principal which may be allowed, reserve requirements, compliance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, number of users (members) and verification required, contributions rates and charges, interim financing, disbursement of funds, security requirements, graduation requirements, debt collection policies execution of Form RD 1910-11, "Application Certification, Federal Collection Policies for Consumer or Commercial Debts," organization, business operations, insurance and bonding (including applicant/borrower and contractor), construction contract documents and bidding, accounts, records, and audit reports required (including requirements of OMB Circulars A-128 and A-110), adoption of Form RD 1942-47, "Loan Resolution (Public Bodies)," for public bodies or Form RD 1942-9, "Loan Resolution (Security Agreement)," for other than public bodies, closing instructions, and other requirements.

(ii) Each letter of conditions will contain the following paragraphs:

(iii) Rural Development Managers may add the following:

(2) The State staff engineer or architect, as appropriate, will include a written analysis and recommendations on the project summary.

(3) The Chief, Community Programs or Community and Business Programs, will review the assembled application and include in the project summary a written analysis and recommendations, including the availability of other credit and other eligibility determinations. The draft letter of conditions will be reviewed and any necessary modifications made.
