
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.6 Preparation for loan closing.
######## Multiple advances of Rural Development funds.

(e)When Rural Development provides loan funds during the construction period using interim (temporary) instruments described in ยง 1942.19(g) of this subpart, the following action will be taken prior to the issuance of the permanent instruments:

(1) The Finance Office will be notified of the anticipated date for retirement of the interim instruments and issuance of permanent instruments of debt.

(2) The Finance Office will prepare a statement of account including accrued interest through the proposed date of retirement and also show the daily interest accrual. The statement of account and the interim financing instruments will be forwarded to the District Director.

(3) The District Director will collect interest through the actual date of the retirement and obtain the permanent instrument(s) of debt in exchange for the interim financing instruments. The permanent instruments and the cash collection will be forwarded to the Finance Office immediately, except that for promissory notes and single instrument bonds fully registered as to principal and interest, the original will be retained in the District Office and a copy will be forwarded to the Finance Office. In developing the permanent instruments, the sequence of preference set out in ยง 1942.19(e) of this subpart will be followed.
