
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.8 Actions subsequent to loan closing.
######## State Office review of loan closing.

(g)The State Director will review the District Director's statement concerning loan closing, the security instruments, and other documents used in closing to determine whether the transaction was closed properly. All material submitted by the District Director, including the executed contract documents (if required by OGC) with the certification of the borrower's attorney, along with a statement by the State Director that all administrative requirements have been met, will be referred to OGC for post-closing review. OGC will review the submitted material to determine whether all legal requirements have been met. OGC's review of Rural Development's standard forms will be only for proper execution thereof, unless the State Director brings specific questions or deviations to the attention of OGC. It is not expected that facility development including construction will be held up pending receipt of the opinion from OGC. When the opinion from OGC is received, the State Director will advise the District Director of any deficiencies that must be corrected and return all material that was submitted for review.
