
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Applicant.

(1)(i) A public body, such as a municipality, county, district, authority, or other political subdivision of a state.

(A) Loans for water or waste disposal facilities will not be made to a city or town with a population in excess of 10,000 inhabitants. The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census). If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data.

(B) Loans for essential community facilities will not be made to a city or town with a population in excess of 20,000 inhabitants according to the most recent decennial Census.

(ii) An organization operated on a not-for-profit basis, such as an association, cooperative, and private corporation. Applicants organized under the general profit corporation laws may be eligible if they actually will be operated on a not-for-profit basis under their charter, bylaws, mortgage, or supplemental agreement provisions as may be required as a condition of loan approval. Essential community facility applicants other than utility-type must have significant ties with the local rural community. Such ties are necessary to ensure to the greatest extent possible that a facility under private control will carry out a public purpose and continue to primarily serve rural areas. Ties may be evidenced by items such as:

(A) Association with or controlled by a local public body or bodies, or broadly based ownership and controlled by members of the community.

(B) Substantial public funding through taxes, revenue bonds, or other local Government sources, and/or substantial voluntary community funding, such as would be obtained through a community-wide funding campaign.

(iii) Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other Federally recognized Indian tribes.
