
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## State Office review.

(ii)All preapplications will be reviewed and scored and Form AD-622, "Notice of Preapplication Review Action," issued within the time limits in ยง 1942.2(a)(2)(iv) of this subpart. When considering authorizing the development of an application for funding, the State Director should consider the remaining funds in the State allocation, and the anticipated allocation of funds for the next fiscal year as well as the amount of time necessary to complete that application. Applicants whose preapplications are found to be ineligible will be so advised. These applicants will be given adverse notice through Form AD-622 and advised of their appeal rights under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. Those applicants with eligible lower scoring preapplications which obviously cannot be funded within an eighteen month period of time, and are not within 150 percent of the State's allocation, should be notified that funds are not available; and requested to advise whether they wish to have their preapplication maintained in an active file for future consideration. The State Director may request an additional allocation of funds from the National Office for such preapplications. Such requests will be considered along with all others on hand.
