
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Results of State Office review.,1,2,1,i,ii,2

(iv)After completing the review, the State Director will normally select the eligible preapplications with the highest scores for further processing. In cases where preliminary cost estimates indicate that an eligible, high scoring preapplication is unfeasible or would require an amount of funding from Rural Development that exceeds either 25 percent of a State's current annual allocation or an amount greater than that remaining in the State's allocation, the State Director may instead select the next lower scoring preapplication(s) for futher processing provided the high scoring applicant is notified of this action and given an opportunity to revise the proposal and resubmit it. If it is found that there is no effective way to reduce costs, the State Director, after consultation with applicant, may submit a request for an additional allocation of funds for the proposed project to the National Office. The request should be submitted during the fiscal year in which obligation is anticipated. Such request will be considered along with all others on hand. A written justification must be prepared and placed in the project file when an eligible preapplication with a higher rating is not selected for further processing. The State Director will notify the District Director of the results of the review action. The State Director will return the preapplication information with an authorization for the District Director to prepare and issue Form AD-622 in accordance with ยง 1942.2(a)(2)(iv) of this subpart. Priority will be given to those preapplications and applications for funding which meet criteria in ยง 1942.17(c)(2)(iii)(A) () or (); and the criteria in ยง 1942.17(c) (2)(iii)(B)() () or () or (B)() of this subpart.
