
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## 3

() Payment of tap fees and other utility connection charges as provided in utility purchase contracts prepared under ยง 1942.18(f) of this subpart.

(ii) To construct or relocate public buildings, roads, bridges, fences, or utilities, and to make other public improvements necessary to the successful operation or protection of facilities authorized in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.

(iii) To relocate private buildings, roads, bridges, fences, or utilities, and other private improvements necessary to the successful operation or protection of facilities authorized in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.

(iv) To pay the following expenses, but only when such expenses are a necessary part of a loan to finance facilities authorized in paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(1)(iii) of this section.

(A) Reasonable fees and costs such as legal, engineering, architectural, fiscal advisory, recording, environmental impact analyses, archeological surveys and possible salvage or other mitigation measures, planning, establishing or acquiring rights.

(B) Interest on loans until the facility is self-supporting, but not for more than three years unless a longer period is approved by the National Office; interest on loans secured by general obligation bonds until tax revenues are available for payment, but not for more than two years unless a longer period is approved by the National Office; and interest on interim financing, including interest charges on interim financing from sources other than Rural Development.

(C) Costs of acquiring interest in land; rights, such as water rights, leases, permits, rights-of-way; and other evidence of land or water control necessary for development of the facility.

(D) Purchasing or renting equipment necessary to install, maintain, extend, protect, operate, or utilize facilities.

(E) Initial operating expenses for a period ordinarily not exceeding one year when the borrower is unable to pay such expenses.

(F) Refinancing debts incurred by, or on behalf of, a community when all of the following conditions exist:
