
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## ii

() All Rural Development loan funds are restored at a later date for purpose(s) for which they were obligated.

(v) To pay obligations for construction incurred before loan approval. Construction work should not be started and obligations for such work or materials should not be incurred before the loan is approved. However, if there are compelling reasons for proceeding with construction before loan approval, applicants may request Rural Development approval to pay such obligations. Such requests may be approved if Rural Development determines that:

(A) Compelling reasons exist for incurring obligations before loan approval; and

(B) The obligations will be incurred for authorized loan purposes; and

(C) Contract documents have been approved by Rural Development; and

(D) All environmental requirements applicable to Rural Development and the applicant have been met; and

(E) The applicant has the legal authority to incur the obligations at the time proposed, and payment of the debts will remove any basis for any mechanic, material, or other liens that may attach to the security property. Rural Development may authorize payment of such obligations at the time of loan closing. Rural Development's authorization to pay such obligations, however, is on the condition that it is not committed to make the loan; it assumes no responsibility for any obligations incurred by the applicant; and the applicant must subsequently meet all loan approval requirements. The applicant's request and Rural Development authorization for paying such obligations shall be in writing. If construction is started without Rural Development approval, post approval in accordance with this section may be considered.

(2) Funds may not be used to finance:

(i) On-site utility systems or business and industrial buildings in connection with industrial parks.

(ii) Facilities to be used primarily for recreation purposes.

(iii) Community antenna television services or facilities.
