
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Facilities for public use.

(e)All facilities financed under the provisions of this subpart shall be for public use.

(1) Utility-type service facilities will be installed so as to serve any user within the service area who desires service and can be feasibly and legally served. Applicants and borrowers must obtain written concurrence of the Rural Development prior to refusing service to such user. Upon failure to provide service which is reasonable and legal, such user shall have direct right of action against the applicant/borrower. A notice of the availability of this service should be given by the applicant/borrower to all persons living within the area who can feasibly and legally be served by the phase of the project being financed.

(i) If a mandatory hookup ordinance will be adopted, the required bond ordinance or resolution advertisement will be considered adequate notification.

(ii) When any portion of the income will be derived from user fees and a mandatory hookup ordinance will not be adopted, each potent user will be afforded an opportunity to request service by signing a Users Agreement.

(2) In no case will boundaries for the proposed service area be chosen in such a way that any user or area will be excluded because of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, age, handicap, or national origin.

(3) This does not preclude:

(i) Financing or constructing projects in phases when it is not practical to finance or construct the entire project at one time; and

(ii) Financing or constructing facilities where it is not economically feasible to serve the entire area, provided economic feasibility is determined on the basis of the entire system and not by considering the cost of separate extensions to or parts thereof; the applicant publicly announces a plan for extending service to areas not initially receiving service from the system; and potential users located in the areas not to be initially served receive written notice from the applicant that service will not be provided until such time as it is economically feasible to do so, and

(iii) Extending services to industrial areas when service is made available to users located along the extensions.
