
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Repayment terms.

(7)The loan repayment period shall not exceed the useful life of the facility, State statute or 40 years from the date of the note(s) or bond(s), whichever is less. Where FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 grant funds are used in connection with a Rural Development loan, the loan will be for the maximum term permitted by this subpart, State statute, or the useful life of the facility, whichever is less, unless there is an exceptional case where circumstances justify making a Rural Development loan for less than the maximum term permitted. In such cases, the reasons must be fully documented. In all cases, including those in which the Rural Development is jointly financing with another lender, the Rural Development payments of principal and interest should approximate amortized installments.

(i) Principal payments may be deferred in whole or in part for a period not to exceed 36 months following the date the first interest installment is due. If for any reason it appears necessary to permit a longer period of deferment, the State Director may authorize such deferment with the prior approval of the National Office. Deferments of principal will not be used to:

(A) Postpone the levying of taxes or assessments.

(B) Delay collection of the full rates which the borrower has agreed to charge users for its services as soon as major benefits or the improvements are available to those users.

(C) Create reserves for normal operation and maintenance.

(D) Make any capital improvements except those approved by Rural Development determined to be essential to the repayment of the loan or to the obtaining of adequate security thereof.

(E) Accelerate the payment of other debts.
