
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Income determination.

(6)The income data used to determine median household income should be that which most accurately reflects the income of the service area. The service area is that area reasonably expected to be served by the facility being financed by Rural Development. The median household income of the service area and the nonmetropolitan median household income of the State will be determined from 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median household income within the area to be served, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or Rural Development may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source. The nonmetropolitan median household income of the State may only be updated on a national basis by the Rural Development National Office. This will be done only when median household income data for the same year for all Bureau of the Census areas is available from the Bureau of the Census or other reliable sources. Bureau of the Census areas would include areas such as: Counties, County Subdivisions, Cities, Towns, Townships, Boroughs, and other places.
