
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## 3

() Where State statutes or local ordinances require mandatory use of the system and the applicant or legal entity having such authority agrees in writing to enforce such statutes, or ordinances.

(B) The amount of cash contributions required in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(A) of this section will be set by the applicant and concurred in by Rural Development. Contribtions should be an amount high enough to indicate sincere interest on the part of the potential user, but not so high as to preclude service to low income families. Contributions ordinarily should be an amount approximating one year's minimum user fee, and shall be paid in full before loan closing or commencement of construction, whichever occurs first. Once economic feasibility is ascertained based on a demonstration of meaningful potential user cash contributions, the contribution, membership fee or other fees that may be imposed are not a requirement of Rural Development under this section. However, borrowers do have an additional responsibility relating to generating sufficient revenues as set forth in paragraph (n)(2)(iii) of this section.

(C) Enforceable user agreement. Except for users presently receiving service, an enforceable user agreement with a penalty clause is required unless State statutes or local ordinances require mandatory use of the system and the applicant or legal entity having such authority agrees in writing to enforce such statutes or ordinances.

(iii) In those cases where all or part of the borrower's debt payment revenues will come from user fees, applicants must provide a positive program to encourage connection by all users as soon as service is available. The program will be available for review and approval by Rural Development before loan closing or commencement of construction, whichever occurs first. Such a program shall include:

(A) An aggressive information program to be carried out during the construction period. The borrower should send written notification to all signed users at least three weeks in advance of the date service will be available, stating the date users will be expected to have their connections completed, and the date user charges will begin.

(B) Positive steps to assure that installation services will be available. These may be provided by the contractor installing the system, local plumbing companies, or local contractors.

(C) Aggressive action to see that all signed users can finance their connections. This might require collection of sufficient user contributions to finance connections. Extreme cases might necessitate additional loan funds for this purpose; however, loan funds should be used only when absolutely necessary and when approved by Rural Development prior to loan closing.
