
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Fidelity bond.

(ii)Applicants/borrowers will provide fidelity bond coverage for all persons who have access to funds. Coverage may be provided either for all individual positions or persons, or through "blanket" coverage providing protection for all appropriate employees and/or officials. An exception may be granted by the State Director when funds relating to the facility financed are handled by another entity and it is determined that the entity has adequate coverage or the government's interest would otherwise be adequately protected.

(A) The amount of coverage required by Rural Development will normally approximate the total annual debt service requirements for the Rural Development loans.

(B) Form RD 440-24, "Position Fidelity Schedule Bond" may be used. Similar forms may be used if determined acceptable to Rural Development. Other types of coverage may be considered acceptable if it is determined by Rural Development that they fulfill essentially the same purpose as a fidelity bond.

(C) Fidelity bonds must be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, as prescribed in 31 CFR part 223, "Surety Companies doing Business with the United States."
