
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## General.

(i)(A) Applicants must provide evidence of adequate insurance and fidelity bond coverage by loan closing or start of construction, whichever occurs first. Adequate coverage in accordance with this section must then be maintained for the life of the loan. It is the responsibility of the applicant/borrower and not that of Rural Development to assure that adequate insurance and fidelity bond coverage is maintained.

(B) Insurance and fidelity bond requirements by Rural Development shall normally not exceed those proposed by the applicant/borrower if the Rural Development loan approval or servicing official determines that proposed coverage is adequate to protect the government's financial interest. Applicants/borrowers are encouraged to have their attorney, consulting engineer/architect, and/or insurance provider(s) review proposed types and amounts of coverage, including any deductible provisions. If the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official and the applicant/borrower cannot agree on the acceptability of coverage proposed, a decision will be made by the State Director.
