
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Service through individual installation.

(10)Community owned water or waste disposal systems may provide service through individual installations or small clusters of users within the applicant's service area. When individual installations or small clusters are proposed, the loan approval official should consider items such as: quantity and quality of the individual installations that may be developed; cost effectiveness of the individual facility compared with the initial and long term user cost on a central system; health and pollution problems attributable to individual facilities; operational or management problems peculiar to individual installations; and permit and regulatory agency requirements.

(i) Applicants providing service through individual facilities must meet the eligibility requirements in ยง 1942.17(b).

(ii) Rural Development must approve the form of agreement between the owner and individual users for the installation, operation and payment for individual facilities.

(iii) If taxes or assessments are not pledged as security, owners providing service through individual facilities must obtain security as necessary to assure collection of any sum the individual user is obligated to pay the owner.

(iv) Notes representing indebtedness owed the owner by a user for an individual facility will be scheduled for payment over a period not to exceed the useful life of the individual facility or the loan, whichever is shorter. The interest rate will not exceed the interest rate charged the owner on the Rural Development indebtedness.

(v) Owners providing service through individual or cluster facilities must obtain:

(A) Easements for the installation and ingress to and egress from the facility; and

(B) An adequate method for denying service in the event of nonpayment of user fees.
