
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Loan resolutions.

(2)Loan resolutions will be adopted by both public and other-than-public bodies using Form RD 1942-47, "Loan Resolution (Public Bodies)," or Form RD 1942-9, "Loan Resolution (Security Agreement)." These resolutions supplement other provisions in this subpart. The applicant will agree:

(i) To indemnify the Government for any payments made or losses suffered by the Government on behalf of the association. Such indemnification shall be payable from the same source of funds pledged to pay the bonds or any other legally permissible source.

(ii) To comply with applicable local, State and Federal laws, regulations, and ordinances.

(iii) To provide for the receipt of adequate revenues to meet the requirements of debt service, operation and maintenance, establishment of adequate reserves, and to continually operate and maintain the facility in good condition. Except for utility-type facilities, free service use may be permitted. If free services are extended no distinctions will be made in the extension of those services because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, or physical or mental handicap.

(iv) To acquire and maintain such insurance coverage including fidelity bonds, as may be required by the Government.

(v) To establish and maintain such books and records relating to the operation of the facility and its financial affairs and to provide for required audit thereof in such a manner as may be required by the Government and to provide the Government without its request, a copy of each such audit and to make and forward to the Government such additional information and reports as it may, from time to time, require.

(vi) To provide the Government at all reasonable times, access to all books and records relating to the facility and access to the property of the system so that the Government may ascertain that the association is complying with the provisions hereof and of the instruments incident to the making or insuring of the loan.

(vii) To provide adequate service to all persons within the service area who can feasibly and legally be served and to obtain Rural Development's concurrence prior to refusing new or adequate services to such persons. Upon failure of the applicant to provide services which are feasible and legal, such person shall have a direct right of action against the applicant organization.

(viii) To have prepared on its behalf and to adopt an ordinance or resolution for the issuance of its bonds or notes or other debt instruments or other such items and in such forms as are required by State statutes and as are agreeable and acceptable to the Government.

(ix) To refinance the unpaid balance, in whole or in part, of its debt upon the request of the Government if at any time it should appear to the Government that the association is able to refinance its bonds by obtaining a loan for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private sources at reasonable rates and terms.

(x) To provide for, execute, and comply with Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement," and Form RD 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement," including an "Equal Opportunity Clause," which is to be incorporated in or attached as a rider to each construction contract and subcontract in excess of $10,000.

(xi)(A) To place the proceeds of the loan on deposit in a manner approved by the Government. Funds must be deposited and maintained in insured accounts whenever possible. Funds must be maintained in interest bearing accounts, unless the following apply:
