
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Interim financing.

(3)In all loans exceeding $50,000, where funds can be borrowed at reasonable interest rates on an interim basis from commercial sources for the construction period, such interim financing will be obtained so as to preclude the necessity for multiple advances of Rural Development funds. Guide 1 or guide 1a, as appropriate, may be used to inform the private lender of Rural Development's commitment. When interim commercial financing is used, the application will be processed, including obtaining construction bids, to the stage where the Rural Development loan would normally be closed, that is immediately prior to the start of construction. The Rural Development loan should be closed as soon as possible after the disbursal of all interim funds. Interim financing may be for a fixed term provided the fixed term does not extend beyond the time projected for completion of construction. For this purpose, a fixed term is when the interim lender cannot be repaid prior to the end of the stipulated term of the interim instruments. When a Rural Development Water and Waste Disposal grant is included, any interim financing involving a fixed term must be for the total Rural Development loan amount. Multiple advances may be used in conjunction with interim commercial financing when the applicant is unable to obtain sufficient funds through interim commercial financing in an amount equal to the loan. The Rural Development loan proceeds (including advances) will be used to retire the interim commercial indebtedness. Before the Rural Development loan is closed, the applicant will be required to provide Rural Development with statements from the contractor, engineer, architect, and attorney that they have been paid to date in accordance with their contracts or other agreements and, in the case of the contractor, that any suppliers and subcontractors have been paid. If such statements cannot be obtained, the loan may be closed provided:

(i) Statements to the extent possible are obtained;

(ii) The interest of Rural Development can be adequately protected and its security position is not impaired; and

(iii) Adequate provisions are made for handling the unpaid accounts by withholding or escrowing sufficient funds to pay such claims.
