
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Multiple advances.

(2)In the event interim commercial financing is not legally permissible or not available, multiple advances of Rural Development loan funds are required. An exception to this requirement may be granted by the National Office when a single advance is necessitated by State law or public exigency. Multiple advances will be used only for loans in excess of $50,000. Advances will be made only as needed to cover disbursements required by the borrower over a 30-day period. Advances should not exceed 24 in number nor extend longer than two years beyond loan closing. Normally, the retained percentage withheld from the contractor to assure construction completion will be included in the last advance.

(i) Section 1942.19 contains instructions for making multiple advances to public bodies.

(ii) Advances will be requested by the borrower in writing. The request should be in sufficient amounts to pay cost of construction, rights-of-way and land, legal, engineering, interest, and other expenses as needed. The applicant may use Form RD 440-11, "Estimate of Funds Needed for 30 Day Period Commencing ______," to show the amount of funds needed during the 30-day period.

(iii) Rural Development loan funds obligated for a specific purpose, such as the paying of interest, but not needed at the time of loan closing will remain in the Finance Office until needed unless State statutes require all funds to be delivered to the borrower at the time of closing. Loan funds may be advanced to prepay costs under paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(G) of this section. If all funds must be delivered to the borrower at the time of closing to comply with State statutes, funds not needed at loan closing will be handled as follows:

(A) Deposited in an appropriate borrower account, such as the debt service account, or

(B) Deposited in a supervised bank account under paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section.
