
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Development inspections.

(4)The District Director will be responsible for monitoring the construction of all projects being financed, wholly or in part, with Rural DevelopmentFmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 funds. Technical assistance will be provided by the State Director's staff. Project monitoring will include construction inspections and a review of each project inspection report, each change order and each partial payment estimate and other invoices such as payment for engineering/architectural and legal fees and other materials determined necessary to effectively monitor each project. These activities will not be performed on behalf of the applicant/borrower, but are solely for the benefit of Rural Development and in no way are intended to relieve the applicant/borrower of corresponding obligations to conduct similar monitoring and inspection activities. Project monitoring will include periodic inspections to review partial payment estimates prior to their approval and to review project development in accordance with plans and specifications. Each inspection will be recorded using Form RD 1924-12, "Inspection Report." The original Form RD 1924-12 will be filed in the project case folder and a copy furnished to the State Director. The State Director will review inspection reports and will determine that the project is being effectively monitored. The District Director is authorized to review and accept partial payment estimates prepared by the contractor and approved by the borrower, provided the consulting engineer or architect, if one is being utilized for the project, has approved the estimate and certified that all material purchased or work performed is in accordance with the plans and specifications, or if a consulting engineer or architect is not being utilized, the District Director has determined that the funds requested are for authorized purposes. If there is any indication that construction is not being completed in accordance with the plans and specifications or that any other problems exist, the District Director should notify the State Director immediately and withhold all payments on the contract.
