
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Audits.

(4)Any applicant that expends $750,000 or more in Federal financial assistance during their fiscal year must submit an audit report conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, "Audit Requirements." Applicants expending less than $750,000 in Federal financial assistance per fiscal year are exempt from 2 CFR part 200 audit requirements. All audits are to be performed in accordance with the latest revision of the Generally Accepted Government Accounting Standards (GAGAS), developed by the Comptroller General of the United States. Further guidance on preparing an acceptable audit can be obtained from any Agency office. It is not intended that audits required by this part be separate and apart from audits performed in accordance with State and local laws. To the extent feasible, the audit work should be done in conjunction with those audits. Audits should be supplied to the Processing Official within the timeframes stated in paragraph (f) of this section. OMB Circulars and Agency Compliance Supplements are available in any USDA/Agency office or OMB's Web site. Any state, local government, or Indian tribe that is required by constitution or state statute, in effect on January 1, 1987, to undergo its audits less frequently than annually, is permitted to undergo its audits biennially, pursuant to 2 CFR 200.504(a). This requirement must still be in effect for the biennial period. Any nonprofit organization that had biennial audits for all biennial periods ending between July 1, 1992, and January 1, 1995, is permitted to undergo its audits biennially, pursuant to 2 CFR 200.504(b). All biennial audits must cover both years within the biennial period.
