
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.17 Community facilities.
######## Borrower accounting methods, management reporting and audits.,Annual financial statements.

(q)(1)Borrowers are required to provide the Agency with annual financial statements for the life of the loan as outlined in the Letter of Conditions issued by the Agency. The financial statements are the responsibility of the borrower's governing body. The type of statement required is dependent on the amount of Federal financial assistance received during the borrower's fiscal year. Federal financial assistance includes Federal assistance that a non-Federal entity received or administered during the entity's fiscal year in the form of grants, loans, and loan guarantees. A Federal award is Federal financial assistance a non-Federal entity received directly from Federal awarding agencies or indirectly from pass-through entities. Federal awards expended generally pertain to events that require the non-Federal entity to comply with Federal Statues, regulations, and terms and conditions of federal awards, such as: expenditure/expense transactions associated with grants, cost-reimbursement contracts, cooperative agreements, and direct appropriations; the disbursement of funds passed through to sub-recipients; the use of loan proceeds under loan and loan guarantee programs; the receipt of property; the receipt of surplus property; the receipt or use of program income; the distribution or consumption of food commodities; the disbursement of amounts entitling the non-Federal entity to an interest subsidy; and, the period when insurance is in force.
