
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.18 Community facilities - Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing.
######## 5

() Proposed Contract.

(C) Owner and Rural Development engineer's comments and recommendations.

(D) Documentation and statement from the supplier that it has an adequate supply and treatment facilities available to meet the needs of its users and the owner for the foreseeable future.

(2) Set out the ownership and maintenance responsibilities of the respective parties including the master meter if a meter is installed at the point of delivery.

(3) Specify the initial rates and provide some kind of escalator clause which will permit rates for the association to be raised or lowered proportionately as certain specified rates for the supplier's regular customers are raised or lowered. Provisions may be made for altering rates in accordance with the decisions of the appropriate State agency which may have regulatory authority.

(4) Run for a period of time which is at least equal to the repayment period of the loan. State Directors may approve contracts for shorter periods of time if the supplier cannot legally contract for such period, or if the owner and supplier find it impossible or impractical to negotiate a contract for the maximum period permissible under State law, provided:

(i) The supplier is subject to regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other Federal or State agency whose jurisdiction can be expected to prevent unwarranted curtailment of supply; or

(ii) The contract contains adequate provisions for renewal; or

(iii) A determination is made that in the event the contract is terminated, there are or will be other adequate sources available to the owner that can feasibly be developed or purchased.

(5) Set out in detail the amount of connection or demand charges, if any, to be made by the supplier as a condition to making the service available to the owner. However, the payment of such charges from loan funds shall not be approved unless Rural Development determines that it is more feasible and economical for the owner to pay such a connection charge than it is for the owner to provide the necessary supply by other means.

(6) Provide for a pledge of the contract to Rural Development as part of the security for the loan.

(7) Not contain provisions for:

(i) Construction of facilities which will be owned by the supplier. This does not preclude the use of money paid as a connection charge for construction to be done by the supplier.

(ii) Options for the future sale or transfer. This does not preclude an agreement recognizing that the supplier and owner may at some future date agree to a sale of all or a portion of the facility.
