
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.18 Community facilities - Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing.
######## Utility purchase contracts.

(f)Applicants proposing to purchase water or other utility service from private or public sources shall have written contracts for supply or service which are reviewed and approved by the Rural Development State Director or designee. To the extent practical, Rural Development review and approval of such contracts should take place prior to their execution by the owner. Form RD 442-30, "Water Purchase Contract," may be used when appropriate. If the Rural Development loan will be repaid from system revenues, the contract will be pledged to Rural Development as part of the security for the loan. Such contracts will:

(1) Include a commitment by the supplier to furnish, at a specified point, an adequate quantity of water or other service and provide that, in case of shortages, all of the supplier's users will proportionately share shortages. If it is impossible to obtain a firm commitment for either an adequate quantity or sharing shortages proportionately, a contract may be executed and approved provided adequate evidence is furnished to enable Rural Development to make a determination that the supplier has adequate supply and/or treatment facilities to furnish its other users and the applicant for the foreseeable future; and

(i) The supplier is subject to regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other Federal or State agency whose jurisdiction can be expected to prevent unwarranted curtailment of supply; or

(ii) A suitable alternative supply could be arranged within the repayment ability of the borrower if it should become necessary; or

(iii) Prior approval is obtained from the National Office. The following information should be submitted to the National Office:

(A) Transmittal memorandum including:
