
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.18 Community facilities - Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing.
######## Small, minority, and women's businesses and labor surplus area firms.

(5)(i) affirmative steps should be taken to assure that small and minority businesses are utilized when possible as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services. Affirmative steps shall include the following:

(A) Include qualified small and minority businesses on solicitation lists.

(B) Assure that small and minority businesses are solicited whenever they are potential sources.

(C) When economically feasible, divide total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities so as to permit maximum small and minority business participation.

(D) Where the requirement permits, establish delivery schedules which will encourage participation by small and minority businesses.

(E) Use the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration and the Office of Minority Business Enterprise of the Department of Commerce.

(F) If any subcontracts are to be let, require the prime contractor to take the affirmative steps in paragraphs (j)(5)(i) (A) through (E) of this section.

(ii) Owners shall take similar appropriate affirmative action in support of women's businesses.

(iii) Owners are encouraged to procure goods and services from labor surplus areas.

(iv) Owners shall submit a written statement or other evidence to Rural Development of the steps taken to comply with paragraphs (j)(5)(i) (A) through (F), (j)(5)(ii), and (j)(5)(iii) of this section.
