
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.18 Community facilities - Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing.
######## Solicitation of offers,

(4)whether by competitive sealed bids or competitive negotiation, shall:

(i) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. The description shall not, in competitive procurements, contain features which unduly restrict competition. The description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the material, product or service to be procured, and when necessary shall set forth those minimum essential characteristics and standards to which it must conform if it is to satisfy its intended use. Detailed product specifications should be avoided if at all possible. When it is impractical or uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements, a "brand name or equal" description may be used to define the performance or other salient requirements of a procurement. The specific features of the named brands which must be met by offerors shall be clearly stated.

(ii) Clearly specify all requirements which offerors must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
