
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.18 Community facilities - Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing.
######## Alternate contracting methods.

(l)The services of the consulting engineer or architect and the general construction contractor shall normally be procured from unrelated sources in accordance with paragraph (j)(7) of this section. Alternate contracting methods which combine or rearrange design, inspection or construction services (such as design/build or construction management/constructor) may be used with Rural Development written approval.

(1) The owner will request Rural Development approval by providing the following information to the State Office for review and approval by the State Architect:

(i) The owner's written request to use an unconventional contracting method with a description of the proposed method.

(ii) A proposed scope of work describing in clear, concise terms the technical requirements for the contract. This would include a nontechnical statement summarizing the work to be performed by the contractor, the expected results, the sequence in which the work is to be performed, and a proposed construction schedule.

(iii) A proposed firm-fixed-price contract for the entire project which provides that the contractor shall be responsible for any extra cost which may result from errors or omissions in the services provided under the contract and compliance with all Federal, State, and local requirements effective on the contract execution date.

(iv) An evaluation of the contractor's performance on previous similar projects in which the contractor acted in a similar capacity.

(v) A detailed listing and cost estimate of equipment and supplies not included in the construction contract but which are necessary to properly operate the facility.

(vi) Evidence that a qualified construction inspector who is independent of the contractor has or will be hired.

(vii) Preliminary plans and outline specifications. However, final plans and specifications must be completed and reviewed by Rural Development prior to the start of construction.

(viii) The owner's attorney's opinion and comments regarding the legal adequacy of the proposed contract documents and evidence that the owner has the legal authority to enter into and fulfill the contract.

(2) The State Office may approve design/build or construction management/constructor projects if the contract amount is equal to or less than $250,000.

(3) If the contract amount exceeds $250,000, National Office prior concurrence must be obtained in accordance with ยง 1942.9(b) of this subpart. Additional information, such as plans and specifications, may be requested by the National Office.

(4) The Design/Build method of construction is one in which the architectural and engineering services, normally provided by an independent consultant to the owner, are combined with those of the General Contractor under a single source contract. These services are commonly provided by a Design/Build firm, a joint venture between an architectural firm and a construction firm, or a company providing pre-engineered buildings and design services.

(5) The Construction Management/constructor (CMc), acts in the capacity of a General Contractor and is actually responsible for the construction. This type of construction management is also referred to as Construction Manager "At Risk." The construction contract is between the owner and the CMc. The CMc, in turn, may subcontract for some or all of the work.

(6) The National Office may approve other alternative contact methods, such as Construction Management/advisor (CMa), with a recommendation from the State Office. The recommendation shall indicate the circumstances which prove this method advantageous to the applicant and the Government. A CMa acts in an advisory capacity to the owner, and the actual contract for construction is between the owner and a prime contractor or multiple prime contractors. When a contract for an architect and a CMa are being provided, it is important to make sure that separate professionals are not being paid to provide similar services. Further, paragraph (e)(3) of this section discourages separate contracts for construction.

(7) All alternate contracting method projects must comply with the requirements for "maximum open and free competition" in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. Choosing an alternate contracting method is not a way to avoid competition. Further information on procurement methods, which must be followed, is provided in paragraph (k) of this section.
