
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.18 Community facilities - Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing.
######## Competitive sealed bids.

(2)In competitive sealed bids (formal advertising), sealed bids are publicly solicited and a firm-fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation for bids, is lowest, price and other factors considered. When using this method the following shall apply:

(i) At a sufficient time prior to the date set for opening of bids, bids shall be solicited from an adequate number of qualified sources. In addition, the invitation shall be publicly advertised.

(ii) The invitation for bids, including specifications and perinent attachments, shall clearly define the items or services needed in order for the bidders to properly respond to the invitation under paragraph (j)(4) of this section.

(iii) All bids shall be opened publicly at the time and place stated in the invitation for bids.

(iv) A firm-fixed-price contract award shall be made by written notice to that responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the invitation for bids, is lowest. When specified in the bidding documents, factors such as discounts and transportation costs shall be considered in determining which bid is lowest.

(v) Any or all bids may be rejected by the owner when it is in their best interest.
