
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.18 Community facilities - Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing.
######## Surety.

(3)In all contracts for construction or facility improvements awarded exceeding $100,000, the owner shall require bonds, a bank letter of credit or cash deposit in escrow assuring performance and payment, each in the amount of 100 percent of the contract cost. The surety will normally be in the form of performance bonds and payment bonds; however, when other methods of surety may be necessary, bid documents must contain provisions for such alternative types of surety. The use of surety other than performance bonds and payment bonds requires concurrence by the National Office after submission of a justification by the State Director together with the proposed form of escrow agreement or letter of credit. For contracts of lesser amounts, the owner may require surety. When a surety is not provided, contractors will furnish evidence of payment in full for all materials, labor, and any other items procured under the contract. Form RD 1924-10, "Release by Claimants," and Form RD 1924-9, "Certificate of Contractor's Release," may be obtained at the local Rural Development office and used for this purpose. The United States, acting through Rural Development, will be named as co-obligee on all surety unless prohibited by State law. Companies providing performance bonds and payment bonds must hold a certificate of authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds as listed in Treasury Circular 570 as amended and be legally doing business in the State where the facility is located.
