
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.19 Information pertaining to preparation of notes or bonds and bond transcript documents for public body applicants.
######## Bond transcript documents.

(c)Any questions with respect to Rural Development requirements should be discussed with the Rural Development representatives. The bond counsel (or local counsel where no bond counsel is involved) is required to furnish at least two complete sets of the following to the applicant, who will furnish one complete set to Rural Development:

(1) Copies of all organizational documents.

(2) Copies of general incumbency certificate.

(3) Certified copies of minutes or excerpts therefrom of all meetings of the applicant's governing body at which action was taken in connection with the authorization and issuance of the bonds.

(4) Certified copies of documents evidencing that the applicant has complied fully with all statutory requirements incident to calling and holding of a favorable bond election, if such an election is necessary in connection with bond issuance.

(5) Certified copies of the resolution or ordinances or other documents, such as the bond authorizing resolutions or ordinance and any resolution establishing rates and regulating the use of the improvement, if such documents are not included in the minutes furnished.

(6) Copies of official Notice of Sale and affidavit of publication of Notice of Sale where a public sale is required by State statute.

(7) Specimen bond, with any attached coupons.

(8) Attorney's no-litigation certificate.

(9) Certified copies of resolutions or other documents pertaining to the bond award.

(10) Any additional or supporting documents required by bond counsel.

(11) For loans involving multiple advances of Rural Development loan funds a preliminary approving opinion of bond counsel (or local counsel if no bond counsel is involved) if a final unqualified opinion cannot be obtained until all funds are advanced. The preliminary opinion for the entire issue shall be delivered on or before the first advance of loan funds and state that the applicant has the legal authority to issue the bonds, construct, operate and maintain the facility, and repay the loan subject only to changes during the advance of funds such as litigation resulting from the failure to advance loan funds, and receipt of closing certrificates.

(12) Preliminary approving opinion, if any, and final unqualified approving opinion of recognized bond counsel (or local counsel if no bond counsel is involved) including opinion regarding interest on bonds being exempt from Federal and any State income taxes. On approval of the Administrator, a final opinion may be qualified to the extent that litigation is pending relating to Indian claims that may affect title to land or validity of the obligation. It is permissible for such opinions to contain language referring to the last sentence of section 306(a)(1) or to section 309A(h) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act [7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(1) or 1929a(h)], and providing that if the bonds evidencing the indebtedness in question are required by the Federal Government and sold on an insured basis from the Agriculture Credit Insurance Fund, or the Rural Development Insurance Fund, the interest on such bonds will be included in gross income for the purpose of the Federal income tax statutes.
