
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.19 Information pertaining to preparation of notes or bonds and bond transcript documents for public body applicants.
######## Type and denominations.

(1)Bond resolutions or ordinances will provide that the instrument(s) be either a bond representing the total amount of the indebtedness or serial bonds in denominations customarily accepted in municipal financing (ordinarily in multiples of not less than $1000). Single bonds may provide for repayment of principal plus interest or amortized installments; amortized installments are preferable from the standpoint of Rural Development. Coupon bonds will not be used unless required by State statute.

(i) To compute the value of each coupon when the bond denomination is consistent:

(A) Multiply the amount of the loan or advance by the interest rate and divide the product by 365 days.

(B) Multiply the daily accrual factor determined in (A) by the number of days from the date of advance or last installment date to the next installment date.

(C) Divide the interest computed in (B) by the number of bonds securing the advance; this is the individual coupon amount.

(ii) to compute the value of each coupon when the bond denomination varies:

(A) Multiply the denomination of the bond by the interest rate and divide the product by 365 days.

(B) Multiply the daily accrual factor determined in (A) by the number of days from the date of advance or last installment date to the next installment due date; this is the individual coupon amount.
