
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart A - Community Facility Loans
####### ยง 1942.19 Information pertaining to preparation of notes or bonds and bond transcript documents for public body applicants.
######## Multiple advances of Rural Development funds using temporary debt instrument.

(g)When none of the instruments described in paragraph (e) of this section are legally permissible or practical, a bond anticipation note or similar temporary debt instrument may be used. The debt instrument will provide for multiple advance of Rural Development loan funds and will be for the full amount of the Rural Development loan. The instrument will be prepared by bond counsel (or local counsel if bond counsel is not involved) and approved by the State Director and OGC. At the same time Rural Development delivers the last advance, the borrower will deliver the permanent bond instrument and the canceled temporary instrument will be returned to the borrower. The approved debt instrument will show at least the following:

(1) The date from which each advance will bear interest.

(2) The interest rate.

(3) A payment schedule providing for interest on outstanding principal at least annually.

(4) A maturity date which shall be no earlier than the anticipated issuance date of the permanent instrument(s).
