
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.106 Intergovernmental review.

(a) Loans under this subpart are subject to intergovernmental review requirements set forth in U. S. Department of Agriculture regulations 7 CFR 3015, subpart V and RD Instruction 1970-I, 'Intergovernmental Review,' available in any Agency office or on the Agency's Web site.

(b) State intergovernmental review agencies that have selected community facility loans as a program they want to review may not be interested in reviewing proposed loans for fire and rescue facilities. In such cases, the State Director should obtain a letter from the State single point of contact exempting fire and rescue loans from intergovernmental consultation review. A copy of the letter should be placed in the case file for each fire and rescue facility application in lieu of completing the intergovernmental review process.

(c) When an application is filed and adverse comments are not expected, the District Director should proceed with application processing pending intergovernmental review. The loan should not be obligated until any required review process has been completed.

(d) Funds allocated for use under this subpart are also for the use of eligible Indian tribes within the State, regardless of whether State development strategies include Indian reservations. Eligible Indian tribes must have equal opportunity to participate in the program as compared with other residents of the State.
