
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.112 Eligible loan purposes.

(a) Funds may be used:

(1) To construct, enlarge, extend, or otherwise improve essential community facilities primarily providing fire or rescue services primarily to rural residents and rural business. Rural businesses would include facilities such as educational and other publicly owned facilities. "Otherwise improve" includes but is not limited to the following:

(i) The purchase of major equipment, such as fire trucks and ambulances, which will, in themselves, provide an essential service to rural residents.

(ii) The purchase of existing facilities when it is necessary either to improve or to prevent a loss of service.

(iii) The construction or development of an essential community facility requisite to the beneficial and orderly development of a community operated on a nonprofit basis in accordance with ยง 1942.17(d) of this subpart. This subpart includes those projects meeting the definition of a small community facility project.

(2) To pay the following expenses, but only when such expenses are a necessary part of a loan to finance facilities authorized in paragraph (a)(1) of this section:

(i) Reasonable fees and costs such as legal, engineering, architectural, fiscal advisory, recording, environmental impact analyses, archaeological surveys and possible salvage or other mitigation measures, planning, establishing or acquiring rights.

(ii) Interest on loans until the facility is self-supporting but not for more than 3 years unless a longer period is approved by the National Office; interest on loans secured by general obligation bonds until tax revenues are available for payment, but not for more than 2 years unless a longer period is approved by the National Office; and interest on interim financing, including interest charges on interim financing from sources other than RD.

(iii) Costs of acquiring interest in land, rights such as water rights, leases, permits, rights-of-way, and other evidence of land or water control necessary for development of the facility.

(iv) Purchasing or renting equipment necessary to install, maintain, extend, protect, operate, or utilize facilities.

(v) Initial operating expenses for a period ordinarily not exceeding 1 year when the borrower is unable to pay such expenses.

(vi) Refinancing debts incurred by, or on behalf of, a community when all of the following conditions exist:

(A) The debts being refinanced are a secondary part of the total loan;

(B) The debts are incurred for the facility or service being financed or any part thereof; and

(C) Arrangements cannot be made with the creditors to extend or modify the terms of the debts so that a sound basis will exist for making a loan.

(3) To pay obligations for construction or procurement incurred before loan approval. Construction work or procurement actions should not be started and obligations for such work or materials should not be incurred before the loan is approved. However, if there are compelling reasons for proceeding with construction or procurement before loan approval, applicants may request Agency approval to pay such obligations. Such requests may be approved if RD determines that:

(i) Compelling reasons exist for incurring obligations before loan approval; and

(ii) The obligations will be incurred for authorized loan purposes; and

(iii) Contract documents have been approved by RD; and

(iv) All environmental requirements applicable to RD and the applicant have been met; and

(v) The applicant has the legal authority to incur the obligations at the time proposed, and payment of the debts will remove any basis for any mechanic, material or other liens that may attach to the security property. RD may authorize payment of such obligations at the time of loan closing. RD's authorization to pay such obligations, however, is on the condition that it is not committed to make the loan; it assumes no responsibility for any obligations incurred by the applicant; and the applicant must subsequently meet all loan approval requirements. The applicant's request and Agency authorization for paying such obligations shall be in writing. If construction or procurement is started without Agency approval, post approval in accordance with this section may be considered.

(b) Funds may not be used to finance:

(1) Facilities which are not modest in size, design, and cost.

(2) Loan finder's fees.

(3) Projects located within the Coastal Barriers Resource system that do not qualify for an exception as defined in section 6 of the Coastal Barriers Resource Act, Pub. L. 97-348.
