
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.114 Security.

Specific requirements for security for each loan will be included in the letter of conditions. Loans must be secured by the best security position practicable, in a manner which will adequately protect the interest of RD during the repayment period of the loan, and in accordance with the following;

(a) Security must include one of the following:

(1) A pledge of revenue and a lien on all real estate and major equipment purchased or developed with the Agency loan; or

(2) General obligation bonds or bonds pledging other taxes.

(b) Additional security may be required as determined necessary by the loan approval official. In determining the need for additional security the loan approval official should carefully consider:

(1) The estimated market value of real estate and equipment security.

(2) The adequacy and dependability of the applicant's revenues, based on the applicant's financial records, the project financial feasibility report, and the project budgets.

(3) The degree of community commitment to the project, as evidenced by items such as active broad based membership, aggressive leadership, broad based fund drives, or contributions by local public bodies.

(c) Additional security may include, but is not limited to, the following:

(1) Liens on additional real estate or equipment.

(2) A pledge of revenues from additional sources.
