
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.123 Loan closing.
######## Review of loan closing.

(l)When the loan has been closed, the Rural Development Manager will submit the completed loan closing documents and a statement showing what was done in closing the loan to the State Director. The State Director will review the documents and the Rural Development Manager's statement to determine whether the transaction was closed properly. For loans to public bodies or Indian tribes the State Director will forward all documents, along with a statement that all administrative requirements have been met, to the Regional Attorney. The Regional Attorney will review the submitted material to determine whether all legal requirements have been met. The Regional Attorney should review Rural Development standard forms only for proper execution, unless the State Director brings attention to specific questions. Facility development should not be held up pending receipt of the Regional Attorney opinion. When the review of the State Director has been completed, and for public bodies and Indian tribes the Regional Attorney's opinion has been received, the State Director must advise the Rural Development Manager of any deficiencies that must be corrected and return all material that was submitted for review.
