
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.123 Loan closing.
######## Multiple advances.

(h)When temporary paper, such as bond anticipation notes or interim receipts, is used to conform with the multiple advance requirement, the original temporary paper will be forwarded to the Finance Office after each advance is made to the borrower. The borrower's case number will be entered in the upper right-hand corner of such paper by the Distict Office. The permanent debt instrument(s) should be forwarded to the Finance Office as soon as possible after the last advance is made, except that for notes and single instrument bonds fully registered as to principal and interest the original will be retained in the District Office and a copy will be forwarded to the Finance Office. The following actions will be taken prior to issuance of the permanent instruments:

(1) The Finance Office will be notified of the anticipated date for the retirement of the interim instruments and the issuance of permanent instruments of debt.

(2) The Office of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer will prepare a statement of account including accrued interest through the proposed date of retirement and also show the daily interest accrual. The statement of account and the interim financing instruments will be forwarded to the Rural Development Manager.

(3) The Rural Development Manager will collect interest through the actual date of the retirement and obtain the permanent instrument(s) of debt in exchange for the interim financing instruments. The permanent instruments and the cash collection will be forwarded to the Office of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer immediately, except that for notes and single instrument bonds fully registered as to principal and interest the original will be retained in the Area Office and a copy will be forwarded to the Office of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer. In developing the permanent instruments, the sequence of preference set out ยง 1942.19(e) of Subpart A of Part 1942 of this chapter will be followed.
