
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.126 Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing, procuring.
######## Final reports.

(2)Detailed final plans and specifications are required for all construction and must receive Agency concurrence. When negotiated procurement is used for construction costing not more than $100,000 the final plans and specifications may be provided by the contractor who submits the successful proposal. The plans and specifications must be prepared by or under the supervision of an architect or engineer who is licensed in the State where the facility is to be located and should include all materials and work to be provided under the contract. Some work and material may be omitted from the contract provided the owner furnishes detailed cost estimates for whatever is needed to fully complete the facility and will complete the facility in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section and the small purchase procedures set out in ยง 1942.18(k)(1) of subpart A of this part 1942. In such cases, RD may determine that it is not necessary to require the applicant to hire a consulting architect/engineer; however, if a second contract that does not qualify for small purchase procedures is needed to complete the facility, the owner must provide for an architect/engineer to design the entire facility. When the contractor provides the plans and specifications, the contract will be considered a design/build procurement method under ยง 1942.18(1) of subpart A of this part 1942.
