
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.126 Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing, procuring.
######## Inspection.

(3)The borrower must provide for inspection of all construction. When the borrower enters into an agreement for technical services with an engineer/architect, the agreement should provide for general engineering/architectural inspection of the construction work. When no such agreement exists, or RD or the borrower determines the inspection services of the engineer/architect may not be sufficient, the owner must provide a project inspector. Prior to the preconstruction conference, the borrower must submit a r&#xE9;sum&#xE9; of qualifications of the project inspector to RD for acceptance in writing. The project inspector will be responsible for making inspections necessary to protect the borrower's interest and for providing written inspection reports to the borrower with copies to the Agency District Director. Guide 11 of subpart A of this part 1942 (available in any Rural Development office) may be used as a guide format for inspection reports. For new buildings, additions to existing buildings, and rehabilitation of existing buildings, the project inspector should make inspections at the following stages of construction and at other stages of construction as determined by the District Director and the borrower. Inspections by RD are solely for its benefit as lender.

(i) An initial inspection should be made just prior to or during the placement of concrete footings or monolithic footings and floor slabs. At this point, foundation excavations are complete, forms or trenches and steel are ready for concrete placement and the subsurface installation is roughed in. If the building design does not include concrete footings the initial inspection should be made just after or during the placement of poles or other foundation materials.

(ii) An inspection should be made when the building is enclosed, structural members are still exposed, roughing in for heating, plumbing and electrical work is in place and visible, and wall insulation and vapor barriers are installed.

(iii) A final inspection should be made when all development of the structure has been completed and the structrure is ready for its intended use.
