
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.126 Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing, procuring.
######## Monitoring reports.

(2)Each owner will be required to monitor and provide reports to RD on actual performance during construction for each project financed, or to be financed, in whole or in part with Agency funds. The reports are to include:

(i) A comparison of actual accomplishments with the construction schedule established for the period. The partial payment estimate may be used for this purpose.

(ii) A narrative statement giving full explanation of the following:

(A) Reasons why established goals were not met.

(B) Analysis and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs and how payment is to be made for the same.

(iii) If events occur between reports which have a significant impact upon the project, the owner will notify RD as soon as any of the following conditions are known:

(A) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially affect the ability to attain program objectives or prevent the meeting of project work units by established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken, or contemplated, and any Federal assistance needed to resolve the situation.

(B) Favorable developments or events which enable meeting time schedules and goals sooner than anticipated or producing more work units than originally projected or which will result in cost underruns or lower unit costs than originally planned and which may result in less Agency assistance.
