
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1942 - ASSOCIATIONS
###### Subpart C - Fire and Rescue and Other Small Community Facilities Projects
####### ยง 1942.126 Planning, bidding, contracting, constructing, procuring.
######## Changes in development plans.

(6)(i) Changes in development plans may be approved by RD when requested by owners, provided:

(A) Funds are available to cover any additional costs; and

(B) The change is for an authorized loan purpose; and

(C) It will not adversely affect the soundness of the facility operation or RD's security; and

(D) The change is within the scope of the contract; and

(E) Any applicable requirements of 7 CFR part 1970 have been met.

(ii) Changes will be recorded on Form RD 1924-7, "Contract Change Order," or other similar forms may be used with the prior approval of the District Director. Regardless of the form, change orders must be approved by the Agency District Director.

(iii) Changes should be accomplished only after Agency approval on all changes which affect the work and shall be authorized only by means of contract change order. The change order will include items such as:

(A) Any changes in labor and material and their respective cost.

(B) Changes in facility design.

(C) Any decrease or increase in quantities based on final measurements that are different from those shown in the bidding schedule.

(D) Any increase or decrease in the time to complete the project.

(iv) All changes shall be recorded on chronologically numbered contract change orders as they occur. Change orders will not be included in payment estimates until approved by all parties.
