
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart B - Housing Application Packaging Grants
####### ยง 1944.51 Objective.

This subpart states the policies and procedures for making grants under section 509 of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1479). Grants reimburse eligible organizations for part or all of the costs of conducting, administering, and coordinating an effective housing application packaging program in colonias and designated counties. Eligible organizations will aid very low- and low-income individuals and families in obtaining benefits from Federal, State, and local housing programs. The targeted groups are very low- and low-income families without adequate housing who will receive priority for recruitment and participation and nonprofit organizations able to propose rental or housing rehabilitation assistance benefitting such families. These funds are available only in the areas defined in exhibit D of this subpart. Participants will assist very low- and low-income families in solving their housing needs. One way of assisting is to package single family housing applications for families wishing to buy, build, or repair houses for their own use. Another way is to package applications for organizations wishing to develop rental units for lower income families. The intent is to make Rural Development housing assistance programs available to very low- and low-income rural residents in colonias and designated counties. Rural Development will reimburse eligible organizations packaging loan/grant applications without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap if such an organization has authority to contract.
