
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart B - Housing Application Packaging Grants
####### ยง 1944.66 Administrative requirements.

The following policies and regulations apply to grants made under this subpart:

(a) Grantees must comply with all provisions of the Fair Housing Act of 1988 and subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter which states in part, that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, familial status, handicap, or age, be excluded from participating in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination in connection with the use of grant funds.

(b) The policies and regulations contained in RD Instruction 1940-Q (available in any Agency office), Departmental Regulation 2400-5, 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 apply to grantees under this subpart.

(c) Grants made under the subpart must be in compliance with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(d) The grantee will retain records for 3 years from the date Standard Form (SF)-269A, "Financial Status Report (Short Form)," is submitted. These records will be accessible to RHS and other Federal officials in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(e) Annual audits will be completed if the grantee has received more than $25,000 of Federal assistance in the year in which HAPG funds were received. These audits will be due 13 months after the end of the fiscal year in which funds were received.

(1) States, State agencies, or units of general local government will complete an audit in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 and OMB Circular A-128.

(2) Nonprofit organizations will complete an audit in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(f) Performance reports, as required, will be submitted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
