
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart B - Housing Application Packaging Grants
####### ยง 1944.71 Term of grant.

(a) For Single Family Housing loans/grants, HAPG funds will be specifically available for designated counties. Packages may be submitted after the annual housing application packaging orientation and training is held. The grant period will end when sufficient packages are received for each designated county or colonia or on September 30, of the fiscal year, whichever is earlier. The State Director must send notification, in the form of a letter, to all packagers who attended the packaging orientation and training that the number of applications specified in the advertisement required under ยง 1944.72 of this subpart have been received. Any packages submitted after this date will be paid for only if the grantee can demonstrate the package was prepared in good faith and prior to receipt of the above notification.

(b) For Multi-Family Housing loans/grants, HAPG funds will be available for designated areas or colonias to the extent specified in Rural Development's advertisement. Preapplications approved in one fiscal year, for which grant funds were obligated, may have the balance disbursed in a later fiscal year when the application is submitted and approved.
