
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart B - Housing Application Packaging Grants
####### ยง 1944.72 Application packaging orientation and training.
######## i.e.

Agency approval officials will orient and train organizations on how to package. A newspaper advertisement will be published by Agency offices serving designated counties and/or colonias after October 1. The advertisement will announce that application packaging services are being requested and specify the date of the certification training. All eligible organizations may attend this training. This date will be no more than 30 days after the advertisement appears in the newspaper and no later than December 31 of any year. The advertisement will include the estimated number of packages needed by loan type,, Single Family, Multi-Family, etc. Exhibit A of this subpart (available in any Agency office) is an example of an appropriate advertisement. "Certificates of Training" as required under ยง 1944.53 of this subpart will be signed by the State Director and given after completion of the training. Efforts will be made by the appropriate Agency office to complete this training process and certify packagers as quickly as possible. Grantees must attend this training each year in order to qualify for assistance.
