
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart B - Housing Application Packaging Grants
####### Exhibit C to Subpart B of Part 1944 - Requirements for Housing Application Packages

A package will consist of the following requirements for the respective program.

A. Section 502-Complete application packages will be submitted in accordance with the requirements of 7 CFR part 3550. The package must also include the following:

B. Section 504-Complete application packages will be submitted in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550. The package must include the forms listed in paragraph A. of this exhibit and the following:

The appropriate Agency application form for Rural Housing assistance (non-farm tract) (available in any Rural Development office).

The appropriate Agency form to request verification of employment (available in any Rural Development office).

The appropriate Agency Rural Housing Loan application package (available in any Rural Development office).

Evidence of ownership in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550.

Cost estimates or bid prices for removal of health or safety hazards in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550.

C. Section 514/516-Complete application packages will be submitted in accordance with the Notice of Funding Availability that will be published in theeach Fiscal Year.

D. Section 515-Complete application packages will be submitted in accordance with the Notice of Funding Availability that will be published in theeach Fiscal Year.

E. Section 524-Complete application packages will be submitted in accordance with ยง 1822.271(a) of subpart G of part 1822 of this chapter (paragraph XI.A. of RD Instruction 444.8). After Rural Development's review and as instructed, the application should be completed in accordance with ยง 1822.271(c) of subpart G of part 1822 of this chapter (paragraph XI.C. of RD Instruction 444.8).

F. Section 533-Complete application packages will be submitted in accordance with the requirements of subpart N of part 1944 of this chapter.
