
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart B - Housing Application Packaging Grants
####### Exhibit B to Subpart B of Part 1944 - Housing Application Packaging Grant (HAPG) Fee Processing

The Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 approval official will execute and distribute Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1940-1, "Request for Obligation of Funds," in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert (FMI). HAPG funds will be used for the fees except as otherwise noted in paragraphs II (A) and (B) of this exhibit. Funds for all loan and/or grant application packages will be paid as follows.

I. For all Single Family Housing loans (Sections 502, 504, and 514 ("on" farm labor housing only) of the Housing Act of 1949, checks will be ordered when complete application packages as defined in ยง 1944.73 of this subpart and exhibit C of this subpart are received. The fees are as follows:

(A) Section 502 Single Family Housing Loans-$500

(B) Section 504 Rural Housing Loans and Grants-$500

(C) Section 514 "On" Farm Labor Housing Loans-$500

II. For all Multi-Family Housing loans and grants (sections 514/516, 515, 524, and 533 of the Housing Act of 1949), the entire amount of the fee coming from HAPG funds will be obligated when the packager has met all the requirements of the preapplication stage, however, payments will be made in accordance with the following schedules:

(A) Sections 514/516 Farm Labor Housing Loans and Grants

"Off" farm labor housing loans/grants-fees paid in accordance with the schedule for section 515 Rural Rental Housing loans.

(B) Section 515 Rural Rental Housing Loans.

(1) The scale for packaging fees is based on the percentage of the total development cost as follows:

For additional amounts between:

(2) Twenty-five percent paid from HAPG funds when Form AD-622, "Notification of Preapplication Review Action," is sent inviting submission of a complete application.

(3) Twenty percent paid from HAPG funds when a complete application is filed including plans and specifications.

(4) The 55 percent balance paid when the loan is approved. Funds for this 55 percent will be drawn from loan funds in accordance with 7 CFR 3560.53 (o).

(C) Section 524 Rural Housing Site Loans-total fee is 1 percent of the loan amount payable in two installments.

(1) Thirty percent paid after FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354's review of the preapplication under ยง 1822.271(a) of subpart G of part 1822 of this chapter (paragraph XI A of FmHA Instruction 444.8).

(2) Seventy percent paid upon the completion of the docket in accordance with ยง 1822.271(c) of subpart G of part 1822 of this chapter (paragraph XI C of FmHA Instruction 444.8).

(D) Section 533 Housing Preservation Grants-total fee is 2 percent of the grant amount paid in two installments.

(1) Forty percent will be paid when the Form AD-622, inviting submission of a complete application, is sent.

(2) Sixty percent will be paid after grant closes.
