
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart F - Congregate Housing Services Program
####### ยง 1944.258 Professional assessment committee.
######## General.

(a)(1) A professional assessment committee (PAC), as described in this section, shall recommend services appropriate to the functional abilities and needs of each eligible project resident. The PAC shall be either a voluntary committee appointed by the project management or an agency in the community which provides assessment services and conforms to section 802(e)(3)(A) and (B). PAC members are subject to the conflict of interest provisions in section 1944.175(b).

(2) The PAC shall utilize procedures that ensure that the process of determining eligibility of individuals for congregate services affords individuals fair treatment, due process, and a right of appeal of the determination of eligibility, and shall ensure the confidentiality of personal and medical records.

(3) The dollar value of PAC members' time spent on regular assessments after initial approval of program participants may be counted as match. If a community agency discharges the duties of the PAC, staff time is counted as its imputed value, and if the members are volunteers, their time is counted as volunteer time, according to sections 1944.145(c)(2) (ii) and (iv).
