
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart F - Congregate Housing Services Program
####### ยง 1944.258 Professional assessment committee.
######## i.e.

(1) Perform a formal assessment of each potential elderly program participant to determine if the individual is frail. To qualify as frail, the PAC must determine if the elderly person is deficient in at least three ADLs, as defined in section 1944.105. This assessment shall be based upon the screening done by the service coordinator, and shall include a review of the adequacy of the informal support network (, family and friends available to the potential participant to assist in meeting the ADL needs of that individual), and may include a more in-depth medical evaluation, if necessary;

(2) Determine if non-elderly disabled individuals qualify under the definition of person with disabilities under section 1944.105. If they do qualify, this is the acceptance criterion for them for CHSP. Persons with disabilities do not require an assessment by the PAC;

(3) Perform a regular assessment and updating of the case plan of all participants;

(4) Obtain and retain information in participant files, containing such information and maintained in such form, as HUD or RHS shall require;

(5) Replace any members of the PAC within 30 days after a member resigns. A PAC shall not do formal assessments if its membership drops below three, or if the qualified medical professional leaves the PAC and has not been replaced.

(6) Notify the grantee or eligible owner and the program participants of any proposed modifications to PAC procedures, and provide these parties with a process and reasonable time period in which to review and comment, before adoption of a modification;

(7) Provide assurance of nondiscrimination in selection of CHSP participants, with respect to race, religion, color, sex, national origin, familial status or type of disability;

(8) Provide complete confidentiality of information related to any individual examined, in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974;

(9) Provide all formal information and reports in writing.
