
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.401 Objective.

This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures and delegates authority for providing Technical Assistance (TA) funds to eligible applicants to finance programs of technical and supervisory assistance for self-help housing, as authorized under section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949. Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to Rural Development employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this chapter. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with a Rural Development employee. This financial assistance may pay part or all of the cost of developing, administering, or coordinating programs of technical and supervisory assistance to aid needy very low- and low-income families in carrying out self-help housing efforts in rural areas. Very low-income families must receive a priority for recruitment and participation and may not comprise less than the percentage stated in subpart L of part 1940 of this chapter of those assisted in any grant. The primary purpose is to fund organizations that are willing to locate and work with families that otherwise do not qualify as homeowners. Generally, these are families below 50 percent of median incomes, living in substandard housing, and/or lacking the skills to be good homeowners. Grantees will comply with the nondiscrimination regulation subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter which states that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, marital status, mental or physical handicap, or age, be excluded from participating in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination in connection with the use of grant funds and all provisions of the Fair Housing Act of 1988.
