
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.403 Definitions.
######## Technical assistance.

(n)The organizing and supervising of groups of families in the construction of their own homes including:

(1) Recruiting families who are interested in sharing labor in the construction of each other's homes and assisting such families in obtaining housing loans.

(2) Conducting meetings of the families to explain the self-help program and subjects related to home ownership, such as loan payments, taxes, insurance, maintenance, and upkeep of the property.

(3) Helping families in planning and developing activities that lead to the acquisition and development of suitable building sites.

(4) Assisting families in selecting or developing house plans for homes which will meet their needs and which they can afford.

(5) Assisting families in obtaining cost estimates for construction materials and any contracting that may be required.

(6) Providing assistance in the preparation of loan applications.

(7) Providing construction supervision and training for families while they construct their homes.

(8) Providing financial supervision to individual families with section 502 Rural Housing (RH) loans which will minimize the time and effort required by Rural Development in processing borrower expenditures for materials and contract services.

(9) Assisting families in solving other housing problems.
