
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.410 Processing preapplications, applications, and completing grant dockets.
######## Preapplication review.

(b)(1) The District Director, within 30 days of receipt of the preapplication, Form SF-424, and all other required information and material will complete a thorough review for completeness, accuracy, and conformance to program policy and regulations. Incomplete preapplications will be returned to the applicant for completion. The applicant should be given the name of the regional technical assistance contractor. The County Supervisor in the prospective county will be contacted as to the need for the program in the proposed area and if the necessary resources are available to the grantee. This will include a discussion of the number of 502 and 504 units that will need to be committed to the grantee and the potential work impact on the office during the grant period. If it is determined that the County Office lacks the resources (either personnel or funds) to process all loan requests in a timely manner, the District Director must communicate this need to the State Director along with a recommended solution. (Lack of resources at the county level are not grounds to deny a request). After the District Director has determined that the preapplication is complete and accurate, the District Director will assemble the material in an applicant case file and forward it to the State Director. The case file, as a minimum, must contain the following:

(i) Form SF-424,

(ii) Documentation required in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(iii) Eligibility recommendations, and

(iv) HUD Form 935.2 "Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan", if applicable.

(2) The State Director may, if needed, submit the organizational documents with any comments or questions to the Office of General Counsel (OGC) for a preliminary opinion as to whether the applicant is or will be a legal organization of the type required by these regulations and for advice on any other aspects of the preapplication.

(3) The State Director, if unable to determine eligibility or qualifications with the advice of the OGC, may submit the preapplication to the National Office for review. The preapplication will contain all memoranda from OGC giving the results of its review. The State Director will identify in the transmittal memorandum to the National Office the specific problem and will recommend possible solutions and any information about the applicant which would be helpful to the National Office in reaching a decision.

(4) After an eligibility determination has been made, which should be completed within 30 days unless OGC is involved, the State Director will:

(i) If the applicant is eligible, contact the National Office as to the availability of funds or submit the proposal to the National Office for authorization if the requested amount exceeds the State Director's approval authority. If funds are available, the final review officer, either the State Director or the Assistant Administrator, Housing will issue a letter of conditions that the applicant must meet and direct the District Director to issue Form AD-622, "Notice of Preapplication Review Action."

(ii) If the applicant is determined not eligible, the State Director will direct the District Director to issue Form AD-622.
