
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.410 Processing preapplications, applications, and completing grant dockets.
######## Form AD-622, "Notice of Preapplication Review Action."

(c)(1) If the applicant is eligible and after the State Director has returned the pre-application information and, as appropriate, the environmental review documentation required in 7 CFR part 1970 to the Area Office, the Area Director will, within 10 days, prepare and issue Form AD-622. The original Form AD-622 will be signed and delivered to the applicant along with the letter of conditions, a copy to the applicant's case file, a copy to the County Supervisor, and a copy to the State Director.

(2) If the applicant is not eligible and after the State Director has returned the preapplication information, the District Director will within 5 days notify the applicant on Form AD-622. The notification will inform the applicant that an appeal of the decision may be made to the National Appeals Staff under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.

(3) If the applicant is eligible and no grant or loan funds are available, the State Director will return the preapplication information to the District Director who will, within 10 days, notify the applicant on Form AD-622. The notification will explain the facts concerning the lack of funding and that Rural Development will notify them when funding will be available. This is not an appealable decision.
