
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.411 Conditions for approving a grant.

A grant may be approved for an eligible applicant when the conditions in the letter of conditions are met and the following conditions are present:

(a) The applicant has or can hire, or contract directly or indirectly with, qualified people to carry out its responsibilities in administering the grant.

(b) The applicant has met all of the conditions listed in ยง 1944.410(e) of this subpart.

(c) The grantee furnishes a signed statement that it complies with the requirements of the Departmental Regulations found in 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(d) A resolution has been adopted by the board of directors which authorizes the appropriate officer to execute exhibit A of this subpart and Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement."

(e) The grantee has fidelity bonding as covered in 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 if a nonprofit organization or, if a State or local government, to the extent required in 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(f) The grantee has agreed by completing SF-424B, "Assurances-Non Construction Programs," that it will establish a recordkeeping system that is certifiable by a certified public accountant that it adequately meets the Agreement.

(g) The grantee has established an interest bearing checking account on which at least two bonded officials will sign all checks issued and understands that interest earned in excess of $250.00 annually must be submitted to Rural Development quarterly. (The use of minority depository institutions is encouraged.)

(h) The grantee has developed an agreement to be executed by the grantee and the self-help participants which clearly sets forth what is expected of each and has incorporated exhibit B-2 of this subpart which clearly shows what work is expected of the participating family.
