
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.410 Processing preapplications, applications, and completing grant dockets.
######## Form SF-424, "Application for Federal Assistance."

(e)The applicant will submit Form SF-424 in an original and one copy to the District Director. The application should provide a detailed proposal of its goals including:

(1) Names, addresses, number in household, and total annual household income of families who have been contacted by the applicant and are interested in participating in a self-help housing project. Community organizations including minority organizations may be used as a source of names of people interested in self-help housing.

(2) Proof that the first group of prospective participating self-help families have qualified for financial assistance.

(3) Evidence that lots are optioned by the prospective participating self-help families for the first group. Evidence that lots are available for the remaining groups.

(4) Detailed cost estimates of houses to be built by the mutual self-help method. Plans and specifications should be submitted with the cost estimates.

(5) Proposed staffing need, including qualifications, experience, proposed hiring schedule, and availability of any prospective employees.

(6) Name, address, and official position of the applicant's representative or representatives authorized to act for the applicant and work with Rural Development.

(7) Budget information including a detailed budget for the Agreement period based upon the needs outlined in the proposal. SF 424A will be completed to furnish the budget information.

(8) Indirect or direct cost policy and proposed indirect cost rate developed in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(9) Personnel procedures and practices that will be established or are in existence. Forms to be used should be submitted with the application.

(10) A proposed monthly activities schedule showing the proposed dates for starting and completing the recruitment, loan processing and construction phases for each group of participant families.
