
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.419 Final grantee evaluation.

Near the end of the grant period but prior to the last month, an evaluation of the grantee will be conducted by Rural Development. The State Director may use Rural Development employees or an organization under contract to Rural Development to provide the evaluation. The evaluation is to determine how successful the grantee was in meeting goals and objectives as defined in the agreement, application, this regulation, and any amendments.

(a) This is a quantitative evaluation of the grantee to determine if it met its goals in:

(1) Assisting the project number of families in obtaining adequate housing.

(2) Meeting the goal of assisting very low-income families.

(3) Meeting the family labor requirement in ยง 1944.411(h) and exhibit B-2 of this subpart.

(4) Keeping costs within the guides set in ยง 1944.407.

(5) Meeting order objectives in the Agreement.

(b) The evaluation is a narrative addressed to the State Director with a copy of the National Office, Single Family Housing Processing Division. It will be in 3 parts, namely; findings, recommendations, and an overall rating. The rating will be either unacceptable, acceptable, or outstanding, as follows:

(1) Outstanding if the grantee met or exceeded all of the goals in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Acceptable if the grantee met or exceeded all of the goals as defined in paragraph (a) except two.

(3) Unacceptable if the grantee failed to obtain an acceptable rating.

(c) After the State Director has reviewed the evaluation, a copy will be mailed to the grantee. The grantee may request a review of the evaluation with the District Director. This review is for clarification of the material and to dispute the findings if they are known to be wrong. The rating is not open for discussion except to the extent it can be proven that the findings do not support the rating. If this is the case, the District Director will file an amendment to the State Director.
