
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.417 Servicing actions after grant closing.

Rural Development has a responsibility to help the grantee be successful and help the grantee avoid cases of fraud and abuse. Servicing actions also include correlating activities between the grantee and Rural Development to the benefit of the participating families. The amount of servicing actions needed will vary in accordance with the experience of the grantee, but as minimum the following actions are required:

(a) Monthly, the grantee will provide the District Director with a request for additional funds on Form SF-270, "Request for Advance or Reimbursement." This request need only show the amount of funds used during the previous month, amount of unspent funds, projected need for the next 30 days, and written justification if the request exceeds the projected need for the next 30 days. This request must be in the District Director's office fifteen days prior to the beginning of the month. Upon receipt of the grantee's request, the District Director will:

(1) If the request appears to be in order, process Form RD 440-57 so that delivery of the check will be possible on the first of the next month.

(2) If the request does not appear to be in order, immediately contact the grantee to resolve the problem. After the contact:

(i) If the explanation is acceptable, process Form RD 440-57 so delivery may be possible by the first of the next month, or

(ii) If the explanation is not acceptable, immediately notify the grantee and request the amount of funds that appear reasonable for the next 30 days on Form RD 440-57, so that delivery may be possible by the first of the next month. Unapproved funds that are later approved will be added to the next month's request.

(b) Quarterly, the grantee will submit exhibit B of this subpart in an original and three copies to the County Supervisor on or before January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 which will verify its progress toward meeting the objectives stated in the Agreement and the application. The County Supervisor will immediately complete the County Office review part and forward the report to the District Office. After exhibit B is received in the District Office, a meeting should be scheduled between the grantee, District Director, and the County supervisor since this is an opportune time for both the grantee and Rural Development to review progress to date and make necessary adjustments for the future. This meeting is required if the grantee was previously identified as a problem grantee or will be identified as a problem grantee at this time. Regardless of whether a meeting will be held, the following will be done:

(1) Exhibit B and other information will be evaluated to determine progress made to date. The District Director will comment on exhibit B as to whether the grantee is ahead or behind schedule in each of the following areas:
