
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.417 Servicing actions after grant closing.
######## Labor contributions by the family.

(iv)Are the families working together and are they completing the labor tasks as established on exhibit B-2?

(2) The District Director will submit exhibit B to the State Director who will evaluate the quarterly report along with the District Director's comments. If the State Director determines the grantee is progressing satisfactorily, the State Director will sign and forward exhibit B to the National Office. However, if the State Director determines the grantee is not performing as expected, the State Director will notify the grantee that it has been classified a "High Risk" grantee. The notice will specify the deficiencies and inform the grantee of proposed remedies for noncompliance. The notice will advise the grantee that Rural Development is available to assist and provide the name and address of an organization that is under contract with Rural Development to assist them. The State Director will forward a copy of exhibit B, District Directors comments, and the reasons for classifying them as "High Risk" to the National Office, Single Family Housing, Special Programs Branch. When the period of time provided for corrective action has expired, an assessment will be made of the progress by the grantee toward correcting the situation. If the State Director determines:

(i) The situation has been corrected or reasonable progress has been made toward correcting the situation, the "High Risk" status will be lifted and the grantee so notified.

(ii) The situation has not been corrected but it is correctable if additional time is granted, an extension will be issued.

(iii) The situation has not been corrected and it is unlikely to be corrected if given additional time, the grant will be terminated under ยง 1944.426(b)(1) of this subpart.
