
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.415 Grant approval and other approving authorities.

(a) The State Director is authorized to approve or disapprove TA grants under this subpart. For a grant in excess of $300,000, or in the case of a grant amendment when the amount of the grant plus any unexpended funds from a previous grant will exceed $400,000, prior written consent of the National Office is required. In such cases, the docket, along with the State Director's recommendations, must be submitted to the National Office for review.

(b) The State Director may approve a grant not to exceed $10,000 to an eligible organization under ยง 1944.410(d) of this subpart. The grant must be limited to 6 months and funds must be used for the development of the final application, family recruitment, and related activities as explained in ยง 1944.410(e) of this subpart. The amount of this grant will not be included in figuring TA cost per units.

(c) The authority to contract for services is limited to the Administrator of Rural Development.

(d) Monthly expenditures of the grantee will normally be approved by the District Director unless:

(1) The grantee operates in only one county, in which case the authority may be delegated to the County Supervisor.

(2) The grantee operates in more than one Rural Development District, in which case the State Director will designate the approving official.

(3) The grantee operates in more than one State Director's jurisdiction, in which case the Administrator will designate the approving official.

(4) The expenditure is under contract authority, in which case the Contracting Official Representative will approve the monthly expenditure.
