
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.422 Audit and other report requirements.
######## State and local governments and Indian tribes.

(b)These organizations are to be audited in accordance with this subpart and 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. The grantee will forward completed audits to the appropriate Federal Cognizant agency and a copy to the Rural Development District Director. "Cognizant agency" for audits is defined at 2 CFR 200.18 as the Federal agency designated to carry out the responsibilities described in ยง 200.513 Responsibilities, paragraph (a). The cognizant agency for audit is not necessarily the same as the cognizant agency for indirect costs. A list of cognizant agencies for audit may be found at the FAC Web site. Within USDA, the OIG shall fulfill cognizant agency responsibilities. Smaller grantees not assigned a cognizant agency by OMB should contact the Federal agency that provided the most funds. When USDA is designated as the cognizant agency or when it has been determined by the borrower that Rural Development provided the major portion of Federal financial assistance, the State Director will contact the appropriate USDA OIG Regional Inspector General. Rural Development and the borrower shall coordinate all proposed audit plans with the appropriate USDA OIG.

(1) State and local governments and Indian tribes that receive $25,000 or more a year in Federal financial assistance shall have an audit made in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(2) State and local and Indian tribes that receive less than $25,000 a year in Federal financial assistance shall be exempt from 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(3) Public hospitals and public colleges and universities may be excluded by the State Director from OMB Circular A-128 audit requirements. If such entities are excluded, audits shall be made in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
