
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.426 Grant closeout.
######## Grant purposes not completed,Notification of termination.

(b)-(1)The State Director will promptly notify the grantee and the National Office in writing of the termination action including the specific reasons for the decision and the effective date of the termination. The notification to the grantee will specify that if the grantee believes the reason for the proposed termination can be resolved, the grantee should, within 15 calendar days of the date of this notification, contact the State Director in writing requesting a meeting for further consideration. The meeting will be an informal proceeding at which the grantee will be given the opportunity to provide whatever additional information it believes should be considered in reaching a decision concerning the case. The grantee may have an attorney or any other person present at the meeting if desired. Within 7 calendar days of the meeting, the State Director will determine what action to take.

(i) If the State Director determines that termination is not necessary, the grantee will be informed by letter along with the District Director.

(ii) If the State Director determines that termination of the grant is appropriate, he/she will promptly inform the grantee by the use of exhibit B-3 of subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.
