
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grant Agreement
######## Termination

of a grant means the cancellation of Federal assistance, in whole of in part, under a grant at any time prior to the date of completion.

(a) This Agreement shall terminate ________ years from this date unless extended or sooner terminated under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Agreement.

(b) Grantee shall carry out the self-help housing activity described in the application docket which is attached to and made a part of this Agreement. Grantee will be bound by the conditions set forth in the docket, 7 CFR part 1944, subpart I, and the further conditions set forth in this Agreement. If any of the conditions in the docket are inconsistent with those in the Agreement or subpart I of part 1944, the latter will govern. A waiver of any condition must be in writing and must be signed by an authorized representative of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(c) Grantee shall use grant funds only for the purposes and activities specified in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 regulations and in the application docket approved by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 including the approved budget. Any uses not provided for in the approved budget must be approved in writing by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in advance.

(d) If Grantee is a private nonprofit corporation, expenses charged for travel or per diem will not exceed the rates paid FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees for similar expenses. If Grantee is a public body, the rates will be those that are allowable under the customary practice in the government of which Grantee is a part; if none are customary, the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 rates will be the maximum allowed.

(e) Grant closeout and termination procedures will be as follows:

(1) Promptly after the date of completion or a decision to terminate a grant, grant closeout actions are to be taken to allow the orderly discontinuation of Grantee activity.

(i) Grantee shall immediately refund to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 any uncommitted balance of grant funds.

(ii) Grantee will furnish to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 within 90 days after the date of completion of the grant a "Financial Status Report", Form SF-269A. All financial, performance, and other reports required as a condition of the grant will also be completed.

(iii) Grantee shall account for any property acquired with technical assistance (TA) grant funds, or otherwise received from FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(iv) After the grant closeout, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 retains the right to recover any disallowed costs which may be discovered as a result of any audit.

(2) When there is reasonable evidence that Grantee has failed to comply with the terms of this Agreement, the State Director may determine Grantee as "high risk". A "high risk" Grantee will be supervised to the extent necessary to protect the Government's interest and to help Grantee overcome the deficiencies.

(3) Grant termination will be based on the following:
