
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grant Agreement
######## Termination for cause.

(i)This grant may be terminated in whole, or in part, 90 days after a Grantee has been classified as "high risk" if the State Director determines that Grantee has failed to correct previous deficiencies and is unlikely to correct such items if additional time is allowed. The reasons for termination may include, but are not limited to, such problems as:

(A) Actual TA costs significantly exceeding the amount stipulated in the proposal.

(B) The number of homes being built is significantly less than proposed construction or is not on schedule.

(C) The cost of housing not being appropriate for the self-help program.

(D) Failure of Grantee to only use grant funds for authorized purposes.

(E) Failure of Grantee to submit adequate and timely reports of its operation.

(F) Failure of Grantee to require families to work together in groups by the mutual self-help method in the case of new construction.

(G) Serious or repetitive violation of any of the provisions of any laws administered by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or any regulation issued under those laws.

(H) Violation of any nondiscrimination or equal opportunity requirement administered by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in connection with any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 programs.

(I) Failure to establish an accounting system acceptable to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(J) Failure to serve very low-income families.

(K) Failure to recruit families from substandard housing.
