
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grant Agreement
######## Termination for convenience.

(ii)FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or Grantee may terminate the grant in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.

(4) To terminate a grant for cause, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall promptly notify Grantee in writing of the determination and the reasons for and the effective date of the whole or partial termination. Grantee will be advised of its appeal rights under 7 CFR part 1900, subpart B.

(f) An extension of this grant agreement may be approved by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 provided, in its opinion, the extension is justified and there is a likelihood that the Grantee can accomplish the goals set out and approved in the application docket during the period of the extension.

(g) Grant funds may not be used to pay obligations incurred before the date of this Agreement. Grantee will not obligate grant funds after the grant termination or completion date.

(h) As requested and in the manner specified by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, the Grantee must make quarterly reports, exhibit C of this subpart (on,,andof each year), and a financial status report at the end of the grant period, and permit on-site inspections of program progress by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 representatives. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 may require progress reports more frequently if it deems necessary. Grantee must also comply with the audit requirements found in ยง 1944.422 of subpart I of 7 CFR part 1944, if applicable. Grantee will maintain records and accounts, including property, personnel and financial records, to assure a proper accounting of all grant funds. These records will be made available to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 for auditing purposes and will be retained by Grantee for three years after the termination or completion of this grant.

(i) Acquisition and disposal of personal, equipment and supplies should comply with Subpart R of 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
