
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit B-1 to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Instructions for Preparation of Evaluation Report of Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants

Exhibit B will be used by all Technical Assistance (TA) Grantees obtaining self-help TA grants. This attachment provides the grantee and FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 a uniform method of reporting the performance progress of self-help projects. The TA Grantee will prepare an original and 4 copies of the attachment. The TA Grantee will sign the original and 3 copies and forward it to the local FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 County Office. The TA Grantee will keep the unsigned copy for its records.

The evaluation report will be completed in accordance with the following:

1. Enter the date the quarter ends either March 31, June 30, September 30, or December 31 and the year.

2. Enter the full name of the TA Grantee organization.

3. Enter the complete mailing address of the TA Grantee organization.

4. Enter the area served by the grant.

5. Enter the date of the initial self-help TA grant agreement.

6. Enter the time of any extension self-help TA grant agreement(s).

7. Insert the number of equivalent units (EU) completed the first/second/third month of the quarter using steps 1, 2, and 3 of exhibit B-3.

8. Insert the number of EU's completed the second month of the quarter by using steps 1, 2, and 3 of exhibit B-3.

9. Insert the number of EU's completed the third month of the quarter by using steps 1, 2, and 3 of exhibit B-3.

10. Add items (7), (8), and (9) to the total from the previous quarterly report to obtain the cumulative total number of EU's. This total is the cumulative total number of EU's for the project.

11. Enter the number of houses planned in the TA Grantee proposal(s).

12. Enter the number of houses completed and occupied since the beginning of the grant.

13. Enter the number of houses that are under construction at the end of this quarter.

14. Enter the number of families in the pre-construction phase.

15. Enter the total number of construction supervisor(s) paid with TA grant funds.

16. Enter the number of employees paid with TA grant funds including those listed in item 15.

17. Insert the average elapsed time needed per house from excavation to final inspection by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to complete construction of a house. If no self-help homes have been completed by this grantee, use other projects or your best estimate as a guide.

18. Enter the number of months it takes on average to approve or reject a borrower's docket once it's submitted.

19. Enter number and percent of dockets submitted and rejected this quarter.

20. Enter date of exhibit submittal.

21. Insert title of the Grantee or authorized representative.

22. Signature of Grantee or authorized representative.

23. County Supervisor must answer questions concerning market value and loan amount and also should insert comments concerning progress of construction, success of the project and any problems that the organization may have.

24. Insert date of County Supervisor's review.

25. Signature of County Supervisor.

26. District Director representative should insert his/her comments concerning items listed in ยง 1944.417(b)(1) of 1944-I.

27. Insert date of District Director review.

28. Signature of District Director or representative.

29. Insert State Office comments.

30. Insert date of State Office review.

31. Signature of State Office representative.
