
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit B-3 to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Pre-Construction and Construction Phase Breakdown
######## Construction:

The grantee will utilize exhibit B-2 which outlines 27 construction tasks to determine the percentage of completed construction activities.

D. The computation of equivalent units and TA costs will be computed as follows:

Exhibit C will be used for recording the following information and construction in this example which starts January 1.

Both the grantee and FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 review the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 loan application records to determine the percentage of completion for each family in the pre-construction phase of the program. These are Phases I-III. Total these percentages to find the number of "equivalent units" (EUs) completed at that date during pre-construction. For example, if there are eight families in Group #2 and all have completed the 20 percent phase of pre-construction, then there would be 1.6 EUs in the pre-construction phase of the program as of that date. Each phase must be completed before it is considered in the calculation.

Refer to the records of construction progress for families in the construction Phase III. As of that date, the director totals the percentage of completion figures for each family as follows:

Total production in the construction phase is therefore 2.92 EUs as of that date.

Add the pre-construction and construction subtotals together:

This provides the total EUs of production during the first three months of operation. Steps 1, 2, and 3 will be used to complete items 7, 8 and 9 of exhibit B of this subpart.

Compile exhibit B of this subpart in an original and four copies. The exhibit will be signed by the TA Grantee. Submit the original and three copies of the exhibit quarterly to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 County Office on or before January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15, of each year for the quarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year. The District Director will keep the original and forward two copies to the State Office. The State Office will forward one copy to the National Office. The State Office will prepare information concerning TA grants closed within 30 days of the end of a quarter on the next quarterly report.
