
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit F to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Site Option Loan to Technical Assistance Grantees
######## Responsibility of the County Supervisor.

(B)Upon receipt of an SO loan application, the County Supervisor will:

(1) Determine whether the applicant is eligible. If the applicant is not eligible, or the loan cannot be made for other reasons, the application may be rejected by the County Supervisor with the concurrence of the District Director. The reasons for the rejection should be clearly stated and provided, in writing to the applicant. The applicant will have the right to have the decision reviewed following the procedure established in subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.

(2) Review and verify the accuracy of the information provided.

(3) Make an inspection and a memorandum appraisal of each proposed site "as is." The appraisal will include a narrative statement as to whether the site has been recently sold, verify that the seller is the owner of the property, and indicate whether the purchase price is acceptable based on the selling price of similar properties in the area.

(4) Indicate whether or not it appears that, considering the location and cost of development, adequate building sites can be provided at reasonable costs.

(5) If the option is for a tract of land on which 5 or more sites are proposed, the County Supervisor will forward to the District Director with recommendations as defined in ยง 1924.119 of subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.

(6) If approval is recommended, prepare and have the applicant execute Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1940-1, "Request for Obligation of Funds," for the amount needed. Copies of the form will be distributed as provided in the Forms Manual Insert (FMI).

(7) Forward the SO loan application and the applicant's TA application or TA docket to the State Director. The submission will include the appraisal report and the County Supervisor's comments and recommendations.

The State Director is authorized to approve SO loans developed in accordance with this exhibit. The approval or disapproval of the loan will be handled in the same manner as provided in ยง 1822.272 of subpart F of part 1822 of this chapter (FmHA Instruction 444.8, paragraph XII). SO loans will be established in Automated Multiple Housing Accounting System (AMAS) using Form RD 3560-51, "Multiple Family Housing Obligation Fund Analysis". The Issue loan/Grant checks transaction will be used to request a check for SO loans.
