
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit F to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Site Option Loan to Technical Assistance Grantees

The objective of a Site Option (SO) loan under Section 523(b)(1)(B) of Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 is to enable technical assistance (TA) grantees to establish revolving fund accounts to obtain options on land needed to make sites available to families that will build their own homes by the self-help method. An SO loan will be considered only when sites cannot be made available by other means including a regular Rural Housing Site (RHS) loan.

To be eligible for an SO loan, the applicant must be a TA grantee that is currently operating in a satisfactory manner under a TA grant agreement. If the SO loan applicant has applied for TA funds but is not already a TA grantee and it appears that the TA grant will be made, the SO loan may be approved but not closed until the TA grant is closed.

Loans may be made only as necessary to enable eligible applicants to establish revolving accounts with which to obtain options on land that will be needed as building sites by self-help families participating in the TA self-help housing program. Loans will not be made to pay the full purchase price of land but only for the minimum amounts necessary to obtain an option from the seller. The option should be for as long as necessary but in no case should the option be for less than 90 days.

(A) If the amount of an SO loan will exceed $10,000, the prior consent of the National Office shall be obtained before approval.

(B) The amount of the SO loan should not exceed 15 percent of the purchase price of the land expected to be under option at any one time, unless a higher percent is authorized by the State Director when other land in not available or the particular area requires more down payment than elsewhere or similar circumstances exist.

(C) Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 440-34, "Option to Purchase Real Property," will be used without modification in all cases for obtaining options under this subpart.

(D) The limitations of ยง 1822.266(b) (1) and (2) of subpart F of part 1822 of this chapter (FmHA Instruction 444.8, paragraphs VI B (1) and (2)) concerning land purchase will apply to options purchased under this subpart.
