
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart I - Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit F to Subpart I of Part 1944 - Site Option Loan to Technical Assistance Grantees
######## Loan is closed.

(C)The loan will be considered closed when the note is executed and the loan check delivered to the grantee.

(A) Supervised bank accounts will not be used for SO loans.

(B) Grantee will deposit SO loan funds in a depository institution of its choice. The use of minority institutions is encouraged. Such funds will remain separate from any other account of the grantee and shall be established as an SO revolving account.

(C) Checks drawn on the revolving account will be for the sole purpose of purchasing land options and must be signed by at least two authorized officials of the grantee who have been properly bonded in accordance with ยง 1944.411 (e) and (g) of this subpart.

(D) Grantees will not expend funds for any options until the site and the option form have been reviewed and approved by the County Supervisor.

(1) SO funds will not be left unused in the revolving account in excess of 60 days.

(2) If the funds are not used for the intended purpose within the 60 days specified above, the unused portion will be refunded on the account.

(E) When funds become available for repayment of the SO loan, such funds will be deposited in the revolving account for the purchase of additional site options if needed. If such funds are not needed to purchase more options, they will be applied on the SO loan.

SO loans will be funded from the self-help housing land development fund.
