
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.516 Grant purposes.

Grant funds are to be used for a housing delivery system and counseling program to include a comprehensive program of technical and supervisory assistance as set forth in the grant agreement and any other special conditions as required by Rural Development. Uses of grant funds may include, but are not limited to:

(a) The development and implementation of a program of technical and supervisory assistance as defined in ยง 1944.506 (h) and (i).

(b) Payment of reasonable salaries of professional, technical, and clerical staff actively assisting in the delivery of the TSA project.

(c) Payment of necessary and reasonable office expenses such as office supplies and office rental, office utilities, telephone services, and office equipment rental.

(d) Payment of necessary and reasonable administrative costs such as workers' compensation, liability insurance, audit reports, travel to and attendance at Rural Development approved training sessions, and the employer's share of Social Security and health benefits. Payments to private retirement funds are prohibited unless prior written authorization is obtained from the Administrator.

(e) Payment of reasonable fees for necessary training of grantee personnel. This may include the cost of travel and per diem to attend regional training sessions when authorized by the State Director.

(f) Other reasonable travel and miscellaneous expenses necessary to accomplish the objectives of the specific TSA grant which were anticipated in the individual TSA grant proposal and which have been included as eligible expenses at the time of grant approval.
