
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.526 Preapplication procedure.
######## State Office processing of preapplications.

(c)(1) Upon receipt of a preapplication, the State Office will review and evaluate the preapplication and accompanying documents in accordance with the project selection criteria of ยง 1944.529 and exhibit B of this subpart. The State Office will also:

(i) Make a determination regarding the appropriate level of environmental review in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(ii) Complete an historical and archaeological review in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, and attach to the application.

(2) Within 30 days of the closing date for receipt of preapplications as published in thethe State Director will forward to the National Office the original preapplication(s) and supporting documents of the selected applicant(s), including any comments received in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. See RD Instruction 1970-I available in any Rural Development Office and the comments and recommendations of the County Office(s), District Office(s), and the State Office. The State Office will submit the preapplication(s) in accordance with the annual notice provided for by ยง 1944.525 (b).

(3) Concurrently the State Office will send a copy of the selected applicant's(s') SF 424.1 and relevant documents to the Regional Office of the General Counsel (OGC) requesting a legal determination be made of the applicant's legal existence and authority to conduct the proposed program of technical and supervisory assistance.

(4) The State Office will notify other applicants that their preapplications will not selected and advise them of their appeal rights under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.
