
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.526 Preapplication procedure.
######## Preapplication submission.

(a)(1) All applicants will file an original and two copies of SF 424.1, "Application for Federal Assistance (For Non-construction)," and supporting information detailed below with the appropriate District Office serving the proposed TSA area. A preapplication packet including SF 424.1 is available in all District and State Offices.

(i) The applicant will provide informational copies of the preapplication to the County Supervisor(s) of the area to be served by the TSA project at the time of submittal to the appropriate District Office.

(ii) If the TSA area encompasses more than one District Office, the preapplication will be filed at the District Office which serves the area in which the grantee will provide the greatest amount of TSA efforts. Additional informational copies of the preapplication will be sent by the applicant to the other affected District Office(s).

(2) All preapplications shall be accompanied by the following information which will be used to determine the applicant's eligibility to undertake a TSA program and to determine whether the applicant might be funded.

(i) A narrative presentation of the applicant's proposed TSA program, including:

(A) The technical and supervisory assistance to be provided;

(B) The time schedule for implementing the program;

(C) The staffing pattern to execute the program and salary range for each position, existing and proposed;

(D) The estimated number of low-income and low-income minority families the applicant will assist in obtaining affordable adequate housing;

(E) The estimated number of Rural Development borrowers who are delinquent or being foreclosed that the applicant will assist in resolving their financial problems relating to their delinquency;

(F) The estimated number of households which will be assisted in obtaining adequate housing in the TSA area through new construction and/or rehabilitation;

(G) Annual estimated budget for each of the two years based on the financial needs to accomplish the objectives outlined in the proposal. The budget should include proposed direct and indirect costs for personnel, fringe benefits, travel, equipment, supplies, contracts, and other costs categories, detailing those costs for which the grantee proposes to use the TSA grant separately from non-TSA resources, if any;

(H) The accounting system to be used;

(I) The method of evaluation proposed to be used by the applicant to determine the effectiveness of its program;

(J) The sources and estimated amounts of other financial resources to be obtained and used by the applicant for both TSA activities and housing development and/or supporting facilities; and

(K) Any other information necessary to explain the manner of delivering the TSA assistance proposed.

(ii) Complete information about the applicant's previous experience and capacity to carry out the objectives of the proposed TSA program;

(iii) Evidence of the applicant's legal existence, including, in the case of a private nonprofit organization, a copy of, or an accurate reference to, the specific provisions of State law under which the applicant is organized; a certified copy of the applicant's Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws or other evidence of corporate existence; certificate of incorporation for other than public bodies; evidence of good standing from the State when the corporation has been in existence one year or more; the names and addresses of the applicant's members, directors, and officers; and, if another organization is a member of the applicant-organization, its name, address, and principal business.

(iv) For a private nonprofit entity, a current financial statement dated and signed by an authorized officer of the entity showing the amounts and specific nature of assets and liabilities together with information on the repayment schedule and status of any debt(s) owed by the applicant. If the applicant is an organization being assisted by another private nonprofit organization, the same type of financial statement should also be provided by that organization.

(v) A brief narrative statement which includes information about the area to be served and the need for improved housing (including both percentage and actual number of both low-income and low-income minority families and substandard housing), the need for the type of technical and supervisory assistance being proposed, the method of evaluation to be use by the applicant in determining the effectiveness of its efforts (as related to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section), and any other information necessary to specifically address the selection criteria in ยง 1944.529.

(vi) A list of other activities the applicant is engaged in and expects to continue and a statement as to any other funding and whether it will have sufficient funds to assure continued operation of the other activities for at least the period of the TSA grant agreement.

(3) An applicant should submit written statements from the county, parish, or township governments of the area affected that the project is beneficial and does not duplicate current activities. If the local governmental units will not provide such statements, the applicant will prepare and include with its preapplication a summary of its analysis of alternatives considered under ยง 1944.514(c). However, Indian nonprofit organization applicants should obtain the written concurrence of the Tribal governing body in lieu of the concurrence of the county governments.

(4) Sponsored applicants should submit a written commitment for financial and/or technical assistance from their sponsoring entity.

(5) Environmental review documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
