
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.520 Ineligible activities.

(a) Grant funds may not be used for:

(1) Acquisition, construction, repair, or rehabilitation of structures or acquisition of land, vehicles, or equipment.

(2) Replacement of or substitution for any financial support which would be available from any other source.

(3) Duplication of current services in conflict with the requirements of ยง 1944.514(c).

(4) Hiring personnel to perform construction.

(5) Buying property of any kind from families receiving technical or supervisory assistance from the grantee under the terms of the TSA grant.

(6) Paying for or reimbursing the grantee for any expenses or debts incurred before Rural Development executes the grant agreement.

(7) Paying any debts, expenses, or costs which should be the responsibility of the individual families receiving technical and supervisory assistance.

(8) Any type of political activities.

(9) Other costs including contributions and donations, entertainment, fines and penalties, interest and other financial costs, legislative expenses and any excess of cost from other grant agreements.

(b) Advice and assistance may be obtained from the National Office where ineligible costs are proposed as part of the TSA project or where a proposed cost appears ineligible.

(c) The grantee may not charge fees or accept compensation or gratuities from TSA recipients for the grantee's assistance under this program.
