
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### § 1944.526 Preapplication procedure.
######## National Office processing of preapplications.

(d)(1) Preapplications for this program from those States targeted under § 1944.525 will be reviewed by the National Office for completeness and compliance with this subpart. If a grant is recommended, the National Office will return the preapplication(s) with any comments and recommendations to the State Office and advise that office to proceed with the issuance of Form AD-622, "Notice of Preapplication Review Action," and to request the applicant to prepare SF 424.1 for submission to the District Office. If a grant is not recommended, the National Office will advise the State Office of action to take.

(2) Preapplications from States which are not targeted in accordance with § 1944.525 will be reviewed for completeness and compliance with this subpart and then evaluated in accordance with the project selection criteria of § 1944.529. Those preapplications which are selected, and for which funds are available, will be returned to the appropriate State Office with any National Office comments and recommendations. The State Office will be advised to proceed with the issuance of SF 424.1 and to request the applicant to prepare Form AD-623 for submission to the District Office as detailed in § 1944.531.

(3) Those preapplications for which funds are not available will be returned to the appropriate State Office which will notify each applicant and advise the applicant of its appeal rights under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.

(4) State Directors will be advised of the National Office's action on their selected preapplication within 30 days of receipt of all preapplications.
