
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.531 Applications submission.

(a) Upon notification that the applicant has been tentatively selected for funding, the State Office will forward to the applicant a signed Form AD-622 and provide SF 424.1 with instructions to the applicant for preparation of an application.

(b) Upon receipt of Form AD-622, the applicant will submit an application in an original and 2 copies on Form SF 424.1, and provide whatever additional information is requested to the District Office within 30 days.

(c) Upon receipt of an application on SF 424.1 by the District Office, a docket shall be assembled which will include the following:

(1) Form SF 424.1 and the information submitted in accordance with ยง 1944.526(a)(2).

(2) Form AD-622.

(3) Any comments received in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. See RD Instruction 1970-I, available in any Rural Development Office.

(4) SF 424.1.

(5) OGC legal determination made pursuant to ยง 1944.526(c)(3).

(6) Grant Agreement.

(7) Form RD 1940-1, "Request for Obligation of Funds."

(8) Form RD 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement."

(9) Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement."

(10) Environmental review documentation and historical and archaeological review in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(11) The detailed budget for the agreement period based upon the needs outlined in the proposal and the comments and recommendations by Rural Development.
