
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.529 Project selection.

(a) Projects must meet the following criteria:

(1) Provide a program of supervisory assistance as defined in ยง 1944.506(h), and

(2) Serve areas with a concentration of substandard housing and low-income and low-income minority households.

(b) In addition to the items listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the following criteria will be considered in the selection of grant recipients:

(1) The extent to which the project serves areas with concentrations of Rural Development single family housing loan borrowers who are delinquent in their housing loan payments and/or threatened with foreclosure.

(2) The capability and past performance demonstrated by the applicant in administering its programs.

(3) The effectiveness of the current efforts by the applicant to assist low-income families in obtaining adequate housing.

(4) The extent to which the project will provide or increase the delivery of housing resources to low-income and low-income minority families in the area who are not currently occupying adequate housing.

(5) The services the applicant will provide that are not presently available to assist low-income families in obtaining or maintaining occupancy of adequate housing and the extent of duplication of technical and supervisory assistance activities currently provided for low-income families.

(6) The extent of citizen and local government participation and involvement in the development of the preapplication and project.

(7) The extent of planned coordination with other Federal, State, or local technical and/or supervisory assistance programs.

(8) The extent to which the project will make use of other financial and contributions-in-kind resources for both technical and supervisory assistance and housing development and supporting facilities.

(9) Any comments received in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. See RD Instruction 1970-I, available in any Rural Development Office.

(10) The extent to which the project will be cost effective, including but not limited to the ratio of personnel to be hired by the applicant to the cost of the project, the cost, both direct and indirect, per person benefiting from the project, and the expected benefits to low-income families from the project.

(11) The extent to which the proposed staff and salary ranges, including qualifications, experience, proposed hiring schedule and availability of any prospective employees, will meet the objectives of the proposed TSA program.

(12) The anticipated capacity of the applicant to implement the proposed time schedule for starting and completing the TSA program and each phase thereof.

(13) The adequacy of the records and practices, including personnel procedures and practices, that will be established and maintained by the applicant during the term of the agreement.

(c) Among the projects proposed by private nonprofit entities, preference will be given to sponsored applicants.
