
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.538 Extending and revising grant agreements.

(a) All requests extending the original grant agreement or revising the TSA program must be in writing. Such requests will be processed through the District Director. Any such requests will be processed in accordance with the processing procedure specified in ยง 1944.526 (b) and (c) of this subpart. The State Office will respond to the applicant within 30 days of receipt of the request in the State Office.

(b) An extension of a grant beyond the two year term may be granted by the State Director when:

(1) There are grant funds remaining and the grantee requests an extension at the end of the grant period,

(2) The grantee has demonstrated its ability to conduct a comprehensive program of technical and supervisory assistance in accordance with the terms of its grant agreement and in a manner satisfactory to Rural Development,

(3) The grantee is likely to complete the goals outlined in the initial proposal,

(4) There is an unmet need to continue the delivery of the technical and supervisory assistance being provided by the grantee, and

(5) The District Director recommends continuation of the grant until the grantee has expended all of the remaining grant funds.

(c) Upon approval of the extension, the State Director will authorize the District Director to amend the ending date of the grant agreement and revise the budgets, if necessary, on behalf of the Government.

(d) If the grant agreement must be revised and amended other than by extension, including any changes in the scope and objectives of the TSA program, the grantee will submit a revised budget and TSA program together with any information necessary to justify its requests. Such requests will be submitted to the State Director through the District Director.

(e) The State Office will advise the National Office of all requests to extend or modify the original grant agreement. Prior concurrence of the National Office is not required unless the State Director so desires, in which case the State Director will advise the applicant that the request has been forwarded to the National Office for concurrence. The State Director's recommendation will accompany such requests.

(f) Exhibit D to this subpart shall be executed upon approval of an extension of the grant period, or significant change in either the project budget or the objectives of the approved technical and supervisory activities.

(g) If extension or modification is not approved, the State Office will notify the applicant in writing of the decision and advise the applicant of the appeal procedures under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.
