
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### ยง 1944.547 Management assistance.

The District Director will see that each TSA grantee receives management assistance to help achieve a successful program.

(a) TSA employees who will be contacting and assisting families will receive training in packaging single family housing and Rural Rental Housing loans when, or very shortly after, they are hired so that they can work effectively.

(b) TSA employees who will provide counseling, outreach, and other technical and supervisory assistance will receive training on Rural Development policies, procedures, and requirements appropriate to their positions and the type of assistance the grantee will provide at the outset of the grant.

(c) Training will be provided by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees and/or outside sources approved by Rural Development when the technical and supervisory assistance involves rural housing programs other than Rural Development programs. Appropriate training of TSA employees should be anticipated during the planning stages of the grant and the reasonable cost of such training included in the budget.

(d) The District Director, in cooperation with the appropriate County Supervisor(s), should coordinate the management assistance given to the TSA grantee in a manner which is timely and effective. This will require periodic meetings with the grantee to discuss problems being encountered and offer assistance in solving these problems; to discuss the budget, the effectiveness of the grant, and any other unusual circumstances affecting delivery of the proposed TSA services; to keep the grantee aware of procedural and policy changes, availability of funds, etc.; and to discuss any other matters affecting the availability of housing opportunities for low-income families.

(e) The District Director will advise the grantee of the options available to bring the delinquent borrowers' accounts current and advise the grantee that the appropriate County Supervisor retains all approval authority for any resolution of the delinquent accounts and all other authority currently available to remedy delinquent accounts.
