
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart K of Part 1944 - Grant Agreement - Technical and Supervisory Assistance
######## Termination for cause.

(i)This grant may be terminated in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion, whenever FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 determines that the Grantee has failed to comply with the terms of the Agreement. The reasons for termination may include, but are not limited to, such problems as:

(A) Failure to make satisfactory progress in attaining grant objectives.

(B) Failure of Grantee to use grant funds only for authorized purposes.

(C) Failure of Grantee to submit adequate and timely reports of its operation.

(D) Violation of any of the provisions of any laws administered by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or any regulation issued thereunder.

(E) Violation of any nondiscrimination or equal opportunity requirement administered by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in connection with any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 programs.

(F) Failure to maintain an accounting system acceptable to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
