
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart K of Part 1944 - Grant Agreement - Technical and Supervisory Assistance
######## Termination for convenience.

(ii)FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or the Grantee may terminate the grant in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.

(d) Procedure for termination of grant for cause. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall notify the Grantee in writing of the determination and the reasons for and the effective date of the whole or partial termination in accordance with 7 CFR 1900.53.

18. Extension and/or revision of this grant agreement may be approved by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 provided, in its opinion, the extention and/or revision is justified and there is a likelihood that the Grantee can accomplish the goals set out and approved in the application docket during the period of the extension and/or revision as specified in 7 CFR 1944.538.

(1) To comply with property management standards for expendable and nonexpendable personal property established by Attachment N of OMB Circular A-102 or Attachment N of 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 for State and local governments or nonprofit organizations respectively. "Personal property" means property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible-having physical existence-or intangible-having no physical existence, such as patents, inventions, and copyrights. "Nonexpendable personal property" means tangible personal property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $300 or more per unit. A Grantee may use its own definition of nonexpendable personal property provided that such definition would at least include all tangible personal property as defined above. "Expendable personal property" refers to all tangible personal property other than nonexpendable personal property. When nonexpendable tangible personal property is acquired by a Grantee with project funds, title shall not be taken by the Federal Government but shall vest in the Grantee subject to the following conditions:

(a) Right to transfer title. For items of nonexpendable personal property having a unit acquisition cost of $1,000 or more, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 may reserve the right to transfer title to the Federal Government or to a third party named by the Federal Government when such third party is otherwise eligible under existing statutes. Such reservation shall be subject to the following standards:

(i) The property shall be appropriately identified in the grant or otherwise made known to the Grantee in writing.

(ii) FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after the end of the Federal support of the project for which it was acquired. If FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 fails to issue disposition instructions within the 120 calendar day period, the Grantee shall apply the standards of paragraph 1(c) below.

(iii) When FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 exercises its right to take title, the personal property shall be subject to the provisions for federally owned nonexpendable property discussed in paragraph 1(a)(iv) below.

(iv) When title is transferred either to the Federal Government or to a third party and the Grantee is instructed to ship the property elsewhere, the Grantee shall be reimbursed by the benefitting Federal agency with an amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the Grantee participation in the cost of the original grant project or program to the current fair market value of the property, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred.

(b) Use of other tangible nonexpendable property for which the Grantee has title.

(i) The Grantee shall use the property in the project or program for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds. When it is no longer needed for the original project or program, the Grantee shall use the property in connection with its other federally sponsored activities, in the following order of priority:

(A) Activities sponsored by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(B) Activities sponsored by other Federal agencies.

(ii) Shared use. During the time that nonexpendable personal property is held for use on the project or program for which it was acquired, the Grantee shall make it available for use on other projects or programs if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the property was originally acquired. First preference for such other use shall be given to other projects or programs sponsored by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354; second preference shall be given to projects or programs sponsored by other Federal agencies. If the property is owned by the Federal Government, use on other activities not sponsored by the Federal Government shall be permissible if authorized by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354. User charges should be considered if appropriate.

(c) Disposition of other nonexpendable property. When the Grantee no longer needs the property, the property may be used for other activities in accordance with the following standards:

(i) Nonexpendable property with a unit acquisition cost of less than $1,000. The Grantee may use the property for other activities without reimbursement to the Federal Government or sell the property and retain the proceeds.

(ii) Nonexpendable personal property with a unit acquisition cost of $1,000 or more. The Grantee may retain the property for other use provided that compensation is made to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or its successor. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the property. If the Grantee has no need for the property and the property has further use value, the Grantee shall request disposition instructions from the original Grantor agency. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall determine whether the property can be used to meet the agency's requirements. If no requirement exists within that agency, the availability of the property shall be reported, in accordance with the guidelines of the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR) to the General Services Administration by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to determine whether a requirement for the property exists in other Federal agencies. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall issue instructions to the Grantee no later than 120 days after the Grantee request and the following procedures shall govern:

(A) If so instructed or if disposition instructions are not issued within 120 calendar days after the Grantee's request, the Grantee shall sell the property and reimburse FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 an amount computed by applying to the sales proceeds the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program. However, the Grantee shall be permitted to deduct and retain from the Federal shares $100 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is greater, for the Grantee's selling and handling expenses.

(B) If the Grantee is instructed to dispose of the property other than as described in paragraph 1(a)(iv) above, the Grantee shall be reimbursed by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 for such costs incurred in its disposition.

(C) The Grantee's property management standards for nonexpendable personal property shall include the following procedural requirements:
