
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit C to Subpart K of Part 1944 - Instructions for District Offices Regarding Their Responsibilities in the Administration of the Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grant Program

A. The District Office will maintain for distribution to potential applicants, upon request, a supply of preapplication packets consisting of:

1. SF 424.1.

2. Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement."

3. Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-4, "Assurance Agreement."

4. Environmental review documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

5. Subpart K of part 1944 of this chapter.

B. District Directors will provide any necessary assistance in completing preapplication forms.

C. All applicants will submit preapplications to District Offices. Upon receipt of the preapplication the District Director will review it to ensure that the preapplication is complete and make assessments required by ยง 1944.526(b)(1) of this subpart.

D. The District Director will provide written comments to be attached to the preapplication. These comments will, at a minimum, address the following items:

1. Whether the area to be covered by the project is a "rural area" as defined by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 regulations.

2. The District Director's knowledge of the applicant's past history.

3. The need for the proposed activity, and its relationship to the targeting strategies for the District.

4. Appropriateness and applicability of this proposal for FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 implementation funds.

5. Extent of citizen involvement in development of preapplication, particularly the involvement of minority and/or low-income groups.

6. All other criteria specified in ยง 1944.529 of this subpart.

7. The comments and recommendations of the County Supervisors for the proposed TSA service area.

E. The District Director will forward the original and one copy of the preapplication and accompanying documents along with the comments and a summary recommendation to the State Director within ten (10) working days of receipt of the preapplication.

F. Those applicants invited to submit applications will submit their applications to the District Office with two copies. The District Office will retain the original for the docket and forward one copy to the appropriate State Office after making sufficient copies to forward one copy to each of the appropriate County Offices.

G. The District Director, upon receipt of the application, will prepare a docket in accordance with ยง 1944.531 of this subpart. The procedures for approval and project servicing are detailed in this subpart.
