
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart K of Part 1944 - Grant Agreement - Technical and Supervisory Assistance
######## 7

() Expendable personal property shall vest in the Grantee upon acquisition. If there is a residual inventory of such property exceeding $1,000 in total aggregate fair market value, upon termination or completion of the grant and if the property is not needed for any other federally sponsored project or program, the Grantee shall retain the property for use on nonfederally sponsored activities, or sell it, but must in either case compensate the Federal Government for its share. The amount of compensation shall be computed in the same manner as nonexpendable personal property.

2. To provide a financial management system which will include:

(a) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant. Financial reporting will be on an accrual basis.

(b) Records which identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supported activities. Those records shall contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.

(c) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property, and other assets. Grantee shall adequately safeguard all such assets and shall assure that they are solely for authorized purposes.

(d) Accounting records supported by source documentation.

3. To retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least three years after the submission of the final Project Performance report pursuant to paragraph B(9)(c) of this agreement except in the following situations:

(a) If any litigation, claim, or audit is commenced before the expiration of the three year period, the records shall be retained until all litigations, claims, or audit findings involving the records have been resolved.

(b) Records for nonexpandable property acquired with Federal funds shall be retained for three years after final disposition.

(c) When records are transferred to or maintained by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, the three year retention requirement is not applicable.

Microfilm copies may be substituted in lieu of original records. The Grantor and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly auhthorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the Grantee which are pertinent to the specific grant program for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.

4. To provide information as requested by the Grantor concerning the Grantee's actions in soliciting citizen participation in the application process, including published notice of public meetings, actual public meetings held, and content of written comments received.

5. Not encumber, transfer, or dispose of the property or any part thereof, furnished by the Grantor or acquired wholly or in part with Grantor funds without the written consent of the Grantor except as provided in part C 1.

6. To provide Grantor with such periodic reports of Grantee operations as may be required by authorized representatives of the Grantor.

7. To execute Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement," and to execute any other agreements required by Grantor to implement the civil rights requirements.

8. To include in all contracts in excess of $100,000 a provision for compliance with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued purusant to the Federal Clean Air Act as amended. Violations shall be reported to the Grantor and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency.

9. That, upon any default under its representations or agreements set forth in this instrument, Grantee, at the option and demand of Grantor, will, to the extent legally permissible, repay to the Grantor forthwith the grant funds received with interest at the rate of five percentum per annum from the date of the default. The provisions of this Grant Agreement may be enforced by Grantor, at its option and without regard to prior waivers by it of previous defaults of Grantee, by judicial proceedings to require specific performance of the terms of this Grant Agreement or by such other proceedings in law or equity, in either Federal or State Courts, as may be deemed necessary by Grantor to assure compliance with the provisions of this Grant Agreement and the laws and regulations under which this grant is made.

10. That no member of Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of this Grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom; but this provision shall not be construed to bar as a contractor under the Grant a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.

11. That all nonconfidential information resulting from its activities shall be made available to the general public on an equal basis.

12. That the purpose for which this grant is made may complement, but shall not duplicate programs for which monies have been received, are committed, or are applied for from other sources, public and private.

13. That the Grantee shall relinquish any and all copyrights and/or privileges to the materials developed under this grant, such material being the sole property of the Federal Government. In the event anything developed under this grant is published in whole or in part, the material shall contain notice and be identified by language to the following effect: "The material is the result of tax-supported research and as such is not copyrightable. It may be freely reprinted with the customary crediting of the source."

(14) That the Grantee shall abide by the policies promulgated in 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 which provides standards for use by Grantees in establishing procedures for the procurement of supplies, equipment and other services with Federal grant funds.

15. That it is understood and agreed that any assistance granted under this Agreement will be administered subject to the limitations of Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1471 et. seq., and related regulations, and that rights granted to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 herein or elsewhere may be exercised by it in its sole discretion to carry out the purposes of the assistance, and protect FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354's financial interest.

16. Standard of Conduct. No employee, officer or agent of Grantee shall participate in the selection, award or administration of a contract in which Federal funds are used where, to the knowledge of such employee, officer or agent, the employee, officer or agent or such person's immediate family members, partners or any organization in which such person or such person's immediate family award or administration of the contract, or (2) when such person is negotiating or has any arrangement concerning future employment. The recipient's officers, employees or agents shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from landlords or developers of rental or ownership housing projects in which the persons receiving TSA assistance may be placed as a result of such assistance.

1. That it may assist Grantee, within available appropriations, with such technical and management assistance as needed in planning the project and coordinating the plan with local officials, comprehensive plans, and any State or area plans for improving housing for low-income families in the area in which the project is located.

2. That at its sole discretion, Grantor may at any time give any consent, deferment, subordination, release, satisfaction, or termination of any or all of Grantee's grant obligations, with or without valuable consideration, upon such terms and conditions as Grantor may determine to be (a) advisable to further the purposes of the grant or to protect Grantor's financial interests therein, and (b) consistent with the statutory purposes of the grant and the limitations of the statutory authority under which it is made and Grantor's regulations.

This Agreement is subject to current Grantor regulations and any future regulations not inconsistent with the express terms hereof. Grantee on ____________________, 19____, has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized __________________ and attested and its corporate seal affixed by its duly authorized ________________.
