
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart K - Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants
####### Exhibit E to Subpart K of Part 1944 - Guide Letter to Delinquent FmHA or Its Successor Agency Under Public Law 103-354 Single Family Housing Loan Borrowers

This is to advise you that (name of TSA grantee) is available to provide independent counseling services to Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 borrowers in need of financial management assistance. These services may assist you in resolving your present delinquency in your housing loan.

This organization is prepared to provide financial and budget counseling at no charge to you. Their counseling services include advice on debt levels and credit purchases, consumer and cost awareness, debt adjustment procedures, and other financial information and services.

You are urged to take advantage of this program. However, your participation is voluntary and does not relieve you of any of your loan obligations to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or limit the remedies FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 has to bring your loan current or recover the loan in full. Any plan altering your repayment schedule in any way must be approved by this office. However, it is our intention to work with you and the counseling organization in every way we can to resolve your delinquency.

If you want to participate in this program, please sign the attached copy of this letter and return it to this office. At that time we will advise (name of TSA grantee) that you are interested in their services and provide them with the information they need to contact you. Only information available to the general public will be released.

We are sure you agree that it is in your interest to make every effort to bring your account current. We look forward to your return of the attached copy of this letter.

I desire to participate in the counseling program with (name of TSA grantee).
