
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.651 General.

(a) This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures for making grants under section 533 of the Housing Act of 1949, 42 U.S.C. 1490(m), to provide funds to eligible applicants (hereafter also referred to as grantee(s)) to conduct housing preservation programs benefiting very low- and low-income rural residents. Program funds cover part or all of the grantee's cost of providing loans, grants, interest reduction payments or other assistance to eligible homeowners, owners of single or multiple unit rental properties or for the benefit of owners (as occupants) of consumer cooperative housing projects (hereafter also referred to as co-ops). Such assistance will be used to reduce the cost of repair and rehabilitation, to remove or correct health or safety hazards, to comply with applicable development standards or codes, or to make needed repairs to improve the general living conditions of the resident(s), including improved accessibility by handicapped persons. Such assistance will be used to reduce the cost of repair and rehabilitation, to remove or correct health or safety hazards, to comply with applicable development standards or codes, or to make needed repairs to improve the general living conditions of the residents, including improved accessibility by persons with a disability. Individual housing that is owner occupied may qualify for replacement housing when it is determined by the grantee that the housing is not economically feasible for repair or rehabilitation.

(b) The Rural Housing Service (RHS) will provide Housing Preservation Grant (HPG) assistance to grantees who are responsible for providing assistance to eligible persons without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, familial status, or disability.

(c) The preapplication must only address a proposal to finance repairs and rehabilitation activities to individual housing or rental properties or co-ops. Any combination proposal will not be accepted.

(d) Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to RHS employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this chapter. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with an RHS employee.
