
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.661 Individual homeowners - eligibility for HPG assistance.
######## Ownership.

(b)Evidence of ownership may be a photostatic copy of the instrument evidencing ownership. Methods for assuring the intention of the homeowner to continue to occupy the unit after assistance will be established by the grantee. Any of the following will satisfy or fulfill this requirement of ownership:

(1) Full marketable title.

(2) An undivided or divided interest in the property to be repaired, rehabilitated, or replaced when not all of the owners are occupying the property. HPG assistance may be made in such cases when:

(i) The occupant has been living in the house for at least 1 year prior to the date of requesting assistance;

(ii) The grantee has no reason to believe the occupant's position of owner/occupant will be jeopardized as a result of the improvements to be made with HPG funds; and

(iii) In the case of a loan, and to the extent possible, the co-owner(s) should also sign the security instrument.

(3) A leasehold interest in the property to be repaired, rehabilitated, or replaced. When the potential HPG recipient's "ownership" interest in the property is based on a leasehold interest, the lease must be in writing and a copy must be included in the grantee's file. The unexpired portion of the lease must not be less than 5 years and must permit the recipient to make modifications to the structure without increasing the recipient's lease cost.

(4) A life estate, with the right of present possession, control, and beneficial use of the property.

(5) Land assignments may be accepted as evidence of ownership only for American Indians living on a reservation, when historically the permits have been used by the tribe and have had the comparable effect of a life estate.
