
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.666 Administrative activities and policies.

Grant funds are to be used primarily for housing repair and rehabilitation activities. Use of grant funds for direct and indirect administrative costs is a secondary purpose and must not exceed 20 percent of the HPG funds awarded to the grantee.

(a) Administrative expenses may include:

(1) payment of reasonable salaries or contracts for professional, technical, and clerical staff actively assisting in the delivery of the HPG project.

(2) Payment of necessary and reasonable office expenses such as office rental, supplies, utilities, telephone services, and equipment. (Any item of nonexpendable personal property having a unit value of $1,000 or more, acquired with HPG funds, will be specifically identified to Rural Development in writing.)

(3) Payment of necessary and reasonable administrative costs such as workers' compensation, liability insurance, and the employer's share of Social Security and health benefits. Payments to private retirement funds are permitted if the grantee already has such a fund established and ongoing.

(4) Payment of reasonable fees for necessary training of grantee personnel.

(5) Payment of necessary and reasonable costs for an audit upon expiration of the grant agreement.

(6) Other reasonable travel and miscellaneous expenses necessary to accomplish the objectives of the specific HPG grant which were anticipated in the individual HPG grant proposal and which have been approved as eligible expenses at the time of grant approval.
