
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.666 Administrative activities and policies.
######## not

(b) HPG administrative funds maybe used for:

(1) Preparing housing development plans and strategies except as necessary to accomplish the specific objectives of the HPG project.

(2) Substitution of any financial support previously provided or currently available from any other source.

(3) Reimbursing personnel to perform construction related to housing preservation assistance. (Non-administrative funds may be used if construction is for housing preservation assistance under the provisions of ยง 1944.664(g) of this subpart.

(4) Buying property of any kind from persons receiving assistance from the grantee under the terms of the HPG agreement.

(5) Paying for or reimbursing the grantee for any expense or debts incurred before Rural Development executes the grant agreement.

(6) Paying any debts, expenses, or costs which should be the responsibility of the individual homeowner, owner, tenant or household member of a rental property, or owner (member) or non-member of a co-op receiving HPG assistance outside the costs of repair and rehabilitation as well as for replacement housing (individual homeowners only).

(7) Any type of political activities prohibited by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-122.

(8) Other costs including contributions and donations, entertainment, fines and penalties, interest and other financial costs unrelated to the HPG assistance to be provided, legislative expenses, and any excess of cost from other grant agreements.
