
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### § 1944.676 Preapplication procedures.
######## i.e.

(ix) The annual estimated budget for the program period based on the financial needs to accomplish the objectives outlined in the proposal. The budget should include proposed direct and indirect administrative costs, such as personnel, fringe benefits, travel, equipment, supplies, contracts, and other cost categories, detailing those costs for which the grantee proposes to use the HPG grant separately from non-HPG resources, if any. The applicant budget should also include a schedule (with amounts) of how the applicant proposes to draw HPG grant funds,, monthly, quarterly, lump sum for program activities, etc.;

(x) A copy of an indirect cost proposal as required in 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, when the applicant has another source of federal funding in addition to the HPG program;

(xi) A brief description of the accounting system to be used;

(xii) The method of evaluation to be used by the applicant to determine the effectiveness of its program which encompasses the requirements for quarterly reports to Rural Development in accordance with § 1944.683(b) of this subpart and the monitoring plan for rental properties and co-ops (when applicable) according to § 1944.689 of this subpart;

(xiii) The source and estimated amount of other financial resources to be obtained and used by the applicant for both HPG activities and housing development and/or supporting activities;

(xiv) The use of program income, if any, and the tracking system used for monitoring same;

(xv) The applicant's plan for disposition of any security instruments held by them as a result of its HPG activities in the event of its loss of legal status;

(xvi) Any other information necessary to explain the proposed HPG program; and

(xvii) The outreach efforts outlined in § 1944.671(b) of this subpart.

(2) Complete information about the applicant's experience and capacity to carry out the objectives of the proposed HPG program.

(3) Evidence of the applicant's legal existence, including, in the case of a private nonprofit organization, a copy of, or an accurate reference to, the specific provisions of State law under which the applicant is organized; a certified copy of the applicant's Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws or other evidence of corporate existence; certificate of incorporation for other than public bodies; evidence of good standing from the State when the corporation has been in existence 1 year or more; and, the names and addresses of the applicant's members, directors and officers. If other organizations are members of the applicant-organization, or the applicant is a consortium, preapplications should be accompanied by the names, addresses, and principal purpose of the other organizations. If the applicant is a consortium, documentation showing compliance with § 1944.656 of this subpart will also be included.

(4) For a private nonprofit entity, the most recent audited statement and a current financial statement dated and signed by an authorized officer of the entity showing the amounts and specific nature of assets and liabilities together with information on the repayment schedule and status of any debt(s) owed by the applicant. If the applicant is an organization being assisted by another private nonprofit organization, the same type of financial statement should also be provided by that organization.

(5) A brief narrative statement which includes information about the area to be served and the need for improved housing (including both percentage and actual number of both low-income and low-income minority households and substandard housing), the need for the type of housing preservation assistance being proposed, the anticipated use of HPG resources for historic properties, the method of evaluation to be used by the applicant in determining the effectiveness of its efforts (according to paragraph (b)(1)(xii) of this section).

(6) A statement containing the component for alleviating overcrowding as defined by § 1944.656 of this subpart.

(7) A list of other activities the applicant is engaged in and expects to continue, a statement as to any other funding, and whether it will have sufficient funds to assure continued operation of the other activities for at least the period of the HPG grant agreement.

(8) Any other information necessary that specifically addresses the selection criteria in § 1944.679 of this subpart.

(c) Grants made under this subpart must be in compliance with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(d) The applicant must submit a description of its process for:

(1) Identifying and rehabilitating properties that are listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

(2) Identifying properties that are located in a floodplain or wetland.

(3) Identifying properties located within the Coastal Barrier Resources System.

(4) Coordinating with other public and private organizations and programs that provide assistance in the rehabilitation of historic properties (Stipulation I, D, of the PMOA, RD Instruction 2000-FF, available in any Rural Development office).

(5) Paragraphs (d) (1), (2), and (3) of this section may be accomplished by adoption of exhibit F-2 of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office), or another process supplying similar information acceptable to Rural Development.

(e) The applicant must submit evidence of SHPO concurrence in the proposal, or in the event of nonconcurrence, a copy of SHPO's comments together with evidence that the applicant has sought the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation's advice as to how the disagreement might be resolved, and a copy of any advice provided by the Council.

(f) The applicant must submit written statements and related correspondence reflecting compliance with § 1944.674 (a) and (c) of this subpart regarding consultation with local government leaders in the preparation of its program and the consultation with local and state government pursuant to the provisions of Executive Order 12372.

(g) The applicant is to make its statement of activities available to the public for comment prior to submission to Rural Development pursuant to § 1944.674(b) of this subpart. The application must contain a description of how the comments (if any were received) were addressed.

(h) The applicant must submit an original and one copy of Form RD 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement," and Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement," in accordance with § 1944.674(c) of this subpart.
