
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.671 Equal opportunity requirements and outreach efforts.
######## Outreach.

(b)In addition, the HPG grantee is required to address an outreach effort in their program. The amount of outreach should sufficiently reach the entire service area. As a measure of compliance, the percentages of the individuals served by the HPG grantee should be in proportion to the percentages of the population of the service area by race/national origin. If the percentages are not proportional, then adequate justification is to be made. Exhibit E-1 of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office) will be used to monitor these requirements. (Further explanation and guidance of exhibit E-1 can be found in exhibit E-2 of this subpart which is available in any Rural Development office). A separate file will be maintained by the grantee that will include the following outreach activities:

(1) Community contacts to community organizations, community leaders, including minority leaders, by name, race, and date contacted;

(2) Copies of all advertising in local newspapers, and through other media. Any advertising must reach the entire service area. Rural Development encourages the use of minority-owned radio stations and other types of media, if available, in the service area. The grantee's file shall also include the name of the media used, and the percentage of its patronage by race/national origin; and

(3) Copies of any other advertising or other printed material, including the application form used. The application form shall include the nondiscrimination slogan: "This is an equal opportunity program. Discrimination is prohibited by Federal Law."
