
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.673 Historic preservation and replacement housing requirements and procedures.

(a) Rural Development has entered into a Programmatic Memorandum of Agreement (PMOA) with the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers (SHPO) and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation in order to implement the specific requirements regarding historic preservation contained in section 533 of the Housing Act of 1949, 42 U.S.C. 1490(m) of the enabling legislation. The PMOA, with attachments, can be found in RD Instruction 2000-FF (available in any Rural Development office). A copy of the PMOA will be provided to each applicant for a HPG as part of the preapplication package specified in paragraph II of exhibit C of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office).

(b) Each applicant for an HPG grant will provide, as part of its preapplication documentation submitted to RHS, a description of its proposed process for assisting very low-and low-income persons owning historic properties needing rehabilitation, repair, or replacement. "Historic properties" are defined as properties that are listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Each HPG proposal shall comply with the provisions of Stipulation I, A-G of the PMOA (RD Instruction 2000-FF), available in any Rural Development State or District Office. Should RHS be required to assume responsibility for compliance with 36 CFR part 800 in accordance with Stipulation III of the PMOA, the grantee will assist RHS in preparing an environmental assessment. RHS will work with the grantee to develop alternative actions or mitigation measures, as appropriate.

(c) Such assumption of responsibility by Rural Development on a particular property shall not preclude the grantee from carrying out the requirements of 36 CFR part 800 on other properties as though it were a Federal agency, but no work may be commenced on any unit or dwelling in controversy until and unless so advised by Rural Development.
