
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### § 1944.683 Reporting requirements.

(a) SF-269, "Financial Status Report," is required of all grantees on a quarterly basis. Grantees shall submit an original and two copies of the report to the designated Rural Development servicing office. When preparing the Financial Status Report, the total program outlays (Item 10, g, of SF-269) should be less any rebates, refunds, or other discounts. Reports must be submitted no later than 15 days after the end of each calendar quarter.

(b) Quarterly performance reports shall be submitted by grantees with SF-269, in an original and two copies (see exhibit E-1 or this subpart which is available in any Rural Development office.) The quarterly report should relate the activities during the report period to the project's objectives and analyze the effectiveness of the program. As part of the grantee's preapplication submission, as required by § 1944.676(b) of this subpart, the grantee establishes its objectives for the HPG program, including its method of evaluation to determine its effectiveness. Accordingly, the report must include, but need not be limited to, the following:

(1) Use of HPG funds for administration and housing preservation activities.

(2) The following specific information for each unit or dwelling assisted:

(i) Name(s), address, and income(s) of each homeowner assisted or the name and address of the owner(s) or co-op for each rental property (single or multi-unit) or co-op assisted;

(ii) Total cost of repair/rehabilitation, a list of major repairs made, amount financed by HPG, and amount financed from which other sources;

(iii) Type of assistance provided (interest subsidy, loan, grant, etc.); and

(iv) Results of implementing the environmental process contained in § 1944.672 of this subpart and the historic preservation process contained in § 1944.673 of this subpart.

(3) The use of HPG and any other funds for replacement housing.

(4) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives set for that period, including:

(i) The number of very low- and low-income, minority and nonminority persons assisted in obtaining adequate housing by the HPG program through repair and rehabilitation as well as for replacement housing; and

(ii) The average cost of assistance provided to each household.

(5) Reasons why, if established objectives are not met.

(6) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially affect attainment of the HPG grant objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of program work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or contemplated and any Federal or other assistance needed to relieve the situation.

(7) Objectives established for the next reporting period, sufficiently detailed to identify the type of assistance to be provided, the number and type of households to be assisted, etc.

(8) A certification that the final building inspection reports for each rehabilitation or repair work financed as well as for replacement housing with HPG funds for that quarter is on file.

(c) The grantee should be prepared to meet with the Rural Development office servicing the project to discuss its quarterly report shortly after submission.

(d) If the reports are not submitted in a timely manner or if the reports indicate that the grantee has made unsatisfactory progress or the grantee is not meeting its established objectives, the Rural Development official servicing the grant will recommend to the State Director appropriate action to resolve the indicated problem(s). If appropriate corrective action is not taken by the grantee, the State Director has the discretion to not authorize further advances by suspending the project in accordance with § 1944.688 of this subpart and the grant agreement.
