
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### § 1944.684 Extending grant agreement and modifying the statement of activities.

(a) All requests extending the original grant agreement or modifying the HPG program's statement of activities must be in writing. Such requests will be processed through the designated Rural Development office servicing the project. The approval official will respond to the applicant within 30 days of receipt of the request.

(b) A grantee may request an extension of the grant agreement prior to the end of the project term specified in the grant agreement if the grantee anticipates that there will be grant funds remaining and the grantee has demonstrated its ability to conduct its program in a manner satisfactory to Rural Development. The approval official may approve an extension when:

(1) The grantee is likely to complete or exceed the goals outlined in the approved statement of activities; and

(2) The Rural Development office responsible for servicing the grant recommends continuation of the grant until the grantee has expended all of the remaining grant funds.

(c) Modifications to the statement of activities, such as revising the processes the grantee follows in operating the HPG program, may be approved by the approval official when the modifications are for eligible purposes in accordance with §§ 1944.664 and 1944.666 of this subpart, meet any applicable review and process requirements of this subpart, and the program will continue to serve the geographic area originally approved. The grantee will submit its proposed revisions together with the necessary supporting information to Rural Development prior to modifying its operation from the approved statement of activities.

(d) Exhibit B of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office) will be used for all extensions on and modifications to the grant agreement.
