
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.679 Project selection criteria.
######## Financially feasible

(1) Provide a financially feasible program of housing preservation assistance.is defined as proposed assistance which will be affordable to the intended recipient or result in affordable housing for very low- and low-income persons;

(2) Serve eligible rural areas with a concentration of substandard housing for households with very low- and low-income;

(3) Be an eligible applicant entity as defined in ยง 1944.658 of this subpart;

(4) Meet the requirements of consultation and public comment in accordance with ยง 1944.674 of this subpart; and

(5) Submit a complete preapplication as outlined in ยง 1944.676 of this subpart.

(b) For applicants meeting all of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section, Rural Development will use the weighted criteria in this paragraph (b) in the selection of grant recipients. Each preapplication and its accompanying statement of activities will be evaluated and, based solely on the information contained in the preapplication, the applicant's proposal will be numerically rated on each criteria within the range provided. The highest ranking applicant(s) will be selected based on allocation of funds available to the State. Exhibit D of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office) will be used to document the rating.

(1) Points are awarded based on the percentage of very low-income persons that the applicant proposes to assist, using the following scale:

(i) More than 80%: 20 points.

(ii) 61% to 80%: 15 points.

(iii) 41% to 60%: 10 points.

(iv) 20% to 40%: 5 points.

(v) Less than 20%: 0 points.

(2) The applicant's proposal may be expected to result in the following percentage of HPG fund use (excluding administrative costs) to total cost of unit preservation. This percentage reflects maximum repair or rehabilitation with the least possible HPG funds due to leveraging, innovative financial assistance, owner's contribution or other specified approaches. Points are awarded based on the following percentage of HPG funds (excluding administrative costs) to total funds:

(i) 50% or less: 20 points.

(ii) 51% to 65%: 15 points.

(iii) 66% to 80%: 10 points.

(iv) 81% to 95%: 5 points.

(v) 96% to 100%: 0 points.

(3) The applicant has demonstrated its administrative capacity in assisting very low- and low-income persons to obtain adequate housing based on the following:

(i) The organization or a member of its staff has at least one or more years experience successfully managing and operating a rehabilitation or weatherization type program: 10 points.

(ii) The organization or a member of its staff has at least one or more years experience successfully managing and operating a program assisting very low- and low-income persons obtain housing assistance: 10 points.

(iii) If the organization has administered grant programs, there are no outstanding or unresolved audit or investigative findings which might impair carrying out the proposal: 10 points.
