
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.679 Project selection criteria.
######## or,i.e.

(4) The proposed program will be undertaken entirely in rural areas outside MSAs identified by Rural Development as having populations below 10,000in remote parts of other rural areas (, rural areas contained in MSAs with less than 5,000 population) as defined in ยง 1944.656 of this subpart: 10 points.

(5) The program will use less than 20 percent of HPG funds for administration purposes:

(i) More than 20%: Not Eligible.

(ii) 20%: 0 points.

(iii) 19%: 1 point.

(iv) 18%: 2 points.

(v) 17%: 3 points.

(vi) 16%: 4 points.

(vii) 15% or less: 5 points.

(6) The proposed program contains a component for alleviating overcrowding as defined in ยง 1944.656 of this subpart: 5 points.

(c) In the event more than one preapplication receives the same amount of points, those preapplications will then be ranked based on the actual percentage figure used for determining the points under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Further, in the event that preapplications are still tied, then those preapplications still tied will be ranked based on the percentage figures used (low to high) in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Further, for applications where assistance to rental properties or co-ops is proposed, those still tied will be further ranked based on the number of years the units are available for occupancy under the program (a minimum of 5 years is required). For this part, ranking will be based from most to least number of years. Finally, if there is still a tie, then a "lottery" System will be used.
