
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart N of Part 1944 - Housing Preservation Grant Agreement
######## Termination for convenience.

(ii)FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or the grantee may terminate the grant in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.

(d) FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall notify the grantee in writing of the determination and the reasons for and the effective date of the suspension or termination. Except for termination convenience, grantees have the opportunity to appeal a suspension or termination under FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354's appeal procedure, subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.

19. Upon any default under its representatives or agreements set forth in this instrument, the grantee, at the option and demand of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, will, to the extent legally permissible, repay to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 forthwith the grant funds received with interest at the rate of five per centum per annum from the date of the default. The provisions of this Grant Agreement may be enforced by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, at its option and without regard to prior waivers by it or previous defaults of the grantee, by judicial proceedings to require specific performance of the terms of this Grant Agreement or by such other proceedings in law or equity, in either Federal or State Courts, as may be deemed necessary by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to assure compliance with the provisions of this Grant Agreement and the laws and regulations under which this grant is made.

20. Extension of this Grant Agreement and/or modifications of the Statement of Activities may be approved by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 provided, in its opinion, the extension and/or modification is justified and there is a likelihood that the grantee can accomplish the goals set out and approved in the Statement of Activities during the period of the extension and/or modifications as specified in ยง 1944.684 of this subpart.
