
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart N of Part 1944 - Housing Preservation Grant Agreement
######## Disallowed costs

3.are those charges to a grant which Rural Development or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 determines cannot be authorized in accordance with applicable Federal cost principles contained in Treasury Circular 74-4, "Cost Principles Applicable to Grants and Contracts with State and Local Governments," OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for State and Local Governments," OMB Circular A-122, "Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations," and other conditions contained in this Agreement and OMB Circular A-102 "Uniform Requirements for Grants to State and Local Governments," and OMB Circular A-110, "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Nonprofit Organizations, Uniform Administrative Requirements," as appropriate, and 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

4. "Grant closeout" is the process by which the grant operation is concluded at the expiration of the grant period or following a decision to terminate the grant.

5. "Termination" of the grant means the cancellation of Federal assistance, in whole or in part, at any time before the date of completion.

FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and grantee agree:

1. All grant activities shall be limited to those authorized in subpart N of 7 CFR part 1944.

2. This Agreement shall be effective when executed by both parties.

3. The HPG activities approved by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall commence and be completed by the date indicated above, unless earlier terminated under paragraph B 18 below or extended.

4. Grantee shall carry out the HPG activities and processes as described in the approved Statement of Activities which is made a part of this Agreement. Grantee will be bound by the activities and processes set forth in the Statement of Activities and the further conditions set forth in this Agreement. If the Statement of Activities is inconsistent with the Agreement, the latter will govern. A change of any activities and processes must be in writing and must be signed by the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director or his or her delegated representative.

5. Grantee shall use grant funds only for the purpose and activities approved by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in the HPG budget. Any uses not provided for in the approved budget must be approved in writing by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in advance.

6. If the Grantee is a private nonprofit corporation, expenses charged for travel or per diem will not exceed the rates paid FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees for similar purposes. If the grantee is a public body, the rates will be those that are allowable under the customary practice in the government of which the grantee is a part; if none are customary, the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 rates will be the maximum allowed.

7. Grant funds will not be used for any of the following:

(a) To pay obligations incurred before the effective date of this Agreement.

(b) To pay obligations incurred after the grant termination or ending date.

(c) Entertainment purposes.

(d) To pay for capital assets, the purchase of real estate or vehicles, improvement or renovation of grantee's office space, or repair or maintenance of privately owned vehicles.

(e) Any other purpose specified in §§ 1944.664(f) and 1944.666(b) of this subpart.

(f) Administrative expenses exceeding 20% HPG grant funds.

8. Grant funds shall not be used to substitute for any financial support previously provided and currently available or assured from any other source.

9. Disbursal of grants will be governed as follows:

(a) In accordance with Treasury Circular 1075 (fourth revision) part 205, chapter II of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations, grant funds will be provided by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 as cash advances on an as needed basis not to exceed one advance every 30 days. The advance will be made by direct Treasury check to the grantee. The financial management system of the recipient organization shall provide for effective control over and accountability for all Federal funds as stated to OMB Circular A-102 (42 FR 45828, September 12, 1977) for State and local governments and OMB Circular A-110 (41 FR 32016, July 30, 1976) for nonprofit organizations.

(b) Cash advances to the grantee shall be limited to the minimum amounts needed and shall be timed to be in accord only with the actual, immediate cash requirements of the Grantee in carrying out the purpose of the planned project. The timing and amount of cash advances shall be as close as administratively feasible to the actual disbursements by the grantee for direct program costs (as identified in the grantee's Statement of Activity and budget and fund use plan) and proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs.

(c) Grant funds should be promptly refunded to the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and redrawn when needed if the funds are erroneously drawn in excess of immediate disbursement needs. The only exceptions to the requirement for prompt refunding are when the funds involved:

(i) Will be disbursed by the recipient organization within seven calendar days from the date of the Treasury check, or

(ii) Are less than $10,000 and will be disbursed within 30 calendar days from the date of the Treasury check.

(d) Grantee shall provide satisfactory evidence to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 that all officers of the Grantee organization authorized to receive and/or disburse Federal funds are covered by satisfactory fidelity bonds sufficient to protect FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354's interests.

10. The grantee will submit performance and financial reports as indicated below to the appropriate FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 office.

(a) As needed, but not more frequently than once every 30 calendar days, an original and 2 copies of SF-270, "Request for Advance or Reimbursement."

(b) Quarterly (not later than February 15, May 15, August 15, and November 15 of each year), an original and 2 copies of SF-269, "Financial Status Report," and a quarterly performance report in accordance with § 1944.683 of this subpart.

(c) Within ninety (90) days after the termination or expiration of the Grant Agreement, an original and 2 copies of SF-269, and a final performance report which will include a summary of the project's accomplishments, problems, and planned future activities of the grantee for HPG. Final reports may serve as the last quarterly report.

(d) FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 may require performance reports more frequently if deemed necessary.

11. In accordance with FMC Circular 74-4, Attachment B, compensation for employees will be considered reasonable to the extent that such compensation is consistent with that paid for similar work in other activities of the State or local government.

12. If the grant exceeds $100,000, cumulative transfers among direct cost budget categories totaling more than 5 percent of the total budget must have prior written approval by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

13. Results of the program assisted by grant funds may be published by the grantee without prior review by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, provided that such publications acknowledge the support provided by funds pursuant to the provisions of Title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, and that five copies of each such publications are furnished to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

14. Grantee certifies that no person or organization has been employed or retained to solicit or secure this grant for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee.

15. No person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, creed, color, sex, marital status, age, national origin, or mental or physical handicap, be excluded from participating in, be denied the proceeds of, or be subject to discrimination in connection with the use of grant funds. Grantee will comply with the nondiscrimination regulations of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 contained in subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter.

16. In all hiring or employment made possible by or resulting from this grant, the grantee: (a) Will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, sex, marital status, national origin, age, or mental or physical handicap, and (b) will take affirmative action to insure that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, creed, color, sex, marital status, national origin, age, or mental or physical handicap. This requirement shall apply to, but not be limited to, the following: Employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. In the event grantee signs a contract related to this grant which would be covered by any Executive Order, law, or regulation prohibiting discrimination, grantee shall include in the contract the "Equal Employment Clause" as specified by Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-1, "Equal Employment Agreement."

17. The grantee accepts responsibility for accomplishing the HPG program as submitted and included in the Statement of Activities. The grantee shall also:

(a) Endeavor to coordinate and provide liaison with State and local housing organizations, where they exist.

(b) Provide continuing information to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 on the status of grantee HPG programs, projects, related activities, and problems.

(c) The grantee shall inform FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 as soon as the following types of conditions become known:

(i) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which materially affect the ability to attain program objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules or goals, or preclude the attainment of project work units by established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or contemplated, new time schedules required and any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 assistance needed to resolve the situation.

(ii) Favorable developments or events which enable meeting time schedules and goals sooner than anticipated or producing more work units than originally projected.

18. Grant closeout and termination procedures will be as follows:

(a) Promptly after the date of completion or a decision to terminate a grant, grant closeout actions are to be taken to allow the orderly discontinuation of grantee activity.

(i) The grantee shall immediately refund to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 any uncommitted balance of grant funds.

(ii) The grantee will furnish to Rural Development or its successor agency under Public Law 103- 354 within 90 calendar days after the date of completion of the grant an SF-269 and all financial, performance, and other reports required as a condition of the grant, including an audit report.

(iii) The grantee shall account for any property acquired with HPG grant funds, or otherwise received from FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(iv) After the grant closeout, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 retains the right to recover any disallowed costs which may be discovered as a result of an audit.

(b) When there is reasonable evidence that the grantee has failed to comply with the terms of this Agreement, the State Director can, on reasonable notice, suspend the grant pending corrective action or terminate the grant pursuant to paragraph (c) below. In such instances, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 may reimburse the grantee for eligible costs incurred prior to the effective date of the suspension or termination and may allow all necessary and proper costs which the grantee could not reasonably avoid. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will withhold further advances and grantees are prohibited from further obligating grant funds, pending corrective action.

(c) Grant termination will be based on the following:
