
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.689 Long-term monitoring by grantee.

(a) The grantee is required to perform long-term monitoring on any housing preservation program involving rental properties and co-ops. This monitoring shall be at least on an annual basis and shall consist of, at a minimum, the following:

(1) All requirements noted in ยง 1944.663 of this subpart;

(2) All requirements of the "ownership agreement" executed between the grantee and the rental property owner or co-op; and

(3) All requirements noted in 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 during the effective period of the grant agreement.

(b) The grantee is required to make available to Rural Development any such information as requested by Rural Development concerning the above. The grantee shall submit to the Rural Development servicing office an annual report every year while the ownership agreement is in effect. This report shall be submitted within 15 days after the anniversary date or end of the grant agreement. At a minimum, the report will consist of a statement that the grantee is in compliance with this subpart.

(c) All files pertaining to such rental property owner or co-op shall be kept separate and shall be maintained for a period of 3 years after the termination date of the ownership agreement.
