
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### ยง 1944.688 Grant evaluation, closeout, suspension, and termination.

(a) Grant evaluation will be an on-going activity performed by both the grantee and Rural Development. The grantee will perform self-evaluations by preparing quarterly performance reports in accordance with ยง 1944.683 of this subpart. Rural Development will also review all reports prepared and submitted by the grantee in accordance with the grant agreement and this subpart.

(b) The grant can be suspended or terminated before the grant ending date for the causes specified in the grant agreement. No further grant funds will be advanced when grant suspension or termination procedures have been initiated in accordance with the grant agreement. Grantees may be reimbursed for eligible costs incurred prior to the effective date of the suspension or termination. Grantees are prohibited from incurring additional obligations of funds after notification, pending corrective action by the grantee. Rural Development may allow necessary and proper costs that the grantee could not reasonably avoid during the period of suspension provided they are for eligible HPG purposes. In the event of termination, Rural Development may allow necessary and reasonable costs for an audit.

(c) Grantees will have the opportunity to appeal a suspension or termination under Rural Development's appeal procedures under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.

(d) The grantee will complete the closeout procedures as specified in the grant agreement.

(e) The grantee will have an audit performed upon termination or completion of the project in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, as applicable. As part of its final report, the grantee will address and resolve all audit findings.
