
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### Exhibit A to Subpart N of Part 1944 - Housing Preservation Grant Agreement
######## 7

() Expendable personal property shall vest in the grantee upon acquisition. If there is a residual inventory of such property exceeding $1,000 in total aggregate fair market value, upon termination or completion of the grant and if the property is not needed for any other federally sponsored project or program, the grantee shall retain the property for use on nonfederally sponsored activities, or sell it, but must in either case compensate the Federal Government for its share. The amount of compensation shall be computed in the same manner as nonexpendable personal property.

2. To provide a financial management system which will include:

(a) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant. Financial reporting will be on an accrual basis.

(b) Records which identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supported activities. Those records shall contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.

(c) Effecting control over and accountability for all funds, property, and other assets. Grantee shall adequately safeguard all such assets and shall assure that they are solely for authorized purposes.

(d) Accounting records supported by source documentation.

3. To retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least three years after the submission of the final Project Performance report pursuant to part B (10)(c) of this Agreement except in the following situations:

(a) If any litigation, claim, audit, or investigation is commenced before the expiration of the three year period, the records shall be retained until all litigations, claims, audit or investigation findings involving the records have been resolved.

(b) Records for nonexpendable property acquired by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, the three year retention requirement is not applicable.

(c) When records are transferred to or maintained by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, the three year retention requirement is not applicable.

Microfilm copies may be substituted in lieu of original records. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the grantee which are pertinent to the specific grant program for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.

4. To provide information as requested by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 concerning the grantee's actions in soliciting citizen participation in the application process, including published notice of public meetings, actual public meetings held, and content of written comments received.

5. Not to encumber, transfer, or dispose of the property or any part thereof, furnished by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or acquired wholly or in part with HPG funds without the written consent of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 except as provided in part C 1 of this Agreement.

6. To provide FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 with such periodic reports of grantee operations as may be required by authorized representatives of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

7. To execute Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-1, and to execute any other agreements required by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to implement the civil rights requirements.

8. To include in all contracts in excess of $100,000 a provision for compliance with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 1875C-9 as amended. Violations shall be reported to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency.

9. That no member of Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom, but this provision shall not be construed to bar as a contractor under the grant a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.

10. That all nonconfidential information resulting from its activities shall be made available to the general public on an equal basis.

11. That the purpose for which this grant is made may complement, but shall not duplicate programs for which monies have been received, are committed, or are applied for from other sources, public and private.

12. That the grantee shall relinquish any and all copyrights and/or privileges to the materials developed under this grant, such material being the sole property of the Federal Government. In the event anything developed under this grant is published in whole or in part, the material shall contain notice and be identified by language to the following effect: "The material is the result of tax-supported research and as such is not copyrightable. It may be freely reprinted with the customary crediting of the source."

(13) That the grantee shall abide by the policies promulgated in OMB Circular A-102, Attachment O, or OMB Circular A-110, Attachment O, as applicable, which provides standards for use by Grantees in establishing procedures for the procurement of supplies, equipment, and other services with Federal grant funds.
