
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1944 - HOUSING
###### Subpart N - Housing Preservation Grants
####### Exhibit D to Subpart N of Part 1944 - Project Selection Criteria - Outline Rating Form

Application received on ______.

State ______ District Office ______.

If answer to any of the above is "no", application is rejected and applicant so notified.

Selection Criteria:

Select the appropriate rating:

1. Points awarded based on the percentage of very-low income homeowners or families the applicant proposes to assist, using the following scale ______:

(a) More than 80%: 20 points.

(b) 61% to 80%: 15 points.

(c) 41% to 60%: 10 points.

(d) 20% to 40%: 5 points.

(e) Less than 20%: 0 points.

2. Points awarded based on the applicant's percentage of use of HPG funds to total cost of unit preservation. This percentage reflects maximum rehabilitation with the least possible HPG funds due to leveraging, innovative financial assistance, or other specified approaches. Points are based on the following percentage of HPG funds to total funds ______:

(a) 50% or less: 20 points.

(b) 51% to 65%: 15 points.

(c) 66% to 80%: 10 points.

(d) 81% to 95%: 5 points.

(e) 96% to 100%: 0 points.

3. The applicant has demonstrated its administrative capacity in assisting very low- and low-income families obtain adequate housing based on the following:

(a) The organization or a member of its staff has at least one or more years experience successfully managing and operating a rehabilitation or weatherization type program ______:

Yes-10 points.

No-0 points.

(b) The organization or a member of its staff has at least one or more years experience successfully managing and operating a program assisting very low- and low-income families obtain housing assistance ______:

Yes-10 points.

No-0 points.

(c) If the organization has administered grant programs, there are no outstanding or unresolved audit or investigative findings which might impair carrying out the proposal ______:

No findings: 10 points.

Outstanding findings: 0 points.
