
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1948 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT
###### Subpart B - Section 601 Energy Impacted Area Development Assistance Program
####### ยง 1948.78 Growth management and housing planning projects.

(a) Existing plans for growth management and housing may be used to meet the planning requirements of this subpart.

(b) A reasonable effort should be made to modify existing plans for use in meeting the planning requirements of this section.

(c) The Governor shall be responsible for the coordination of planning within a State.

(d) The planning process developed with assistance under this section should begin at the local level and flow upward to the State.

(e) Planning processes developed with assistance under this section should have the maximum possible citizen involvement in the development of plans.

(f) Governors should give full consideration to local and substate priorities in the development of the State Investment Strategy for Energy Impacted Areas.

(g) Plans developed with assistance under this section should be fully coordinated with other Federal, State, substate, and local planning activities affected by the project.

(h) Planning conducted by the State include effective management activities for coordinated development of approved designated areas through the plan implementation stage.
