
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1948 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT
###### Subpart B - Section 601 Energy Impacted Area Development Assistance Program
####### ยง 1948.94 Reporting requirements.

(a) For planning grants, SF-270 shall be submitted by grantees on an as-needed basis but not more frequently that once every 30 days. SF-269, "Financial Status Report," and a project performance activity report will be required of all grantees on a quarterly basis. SF-269 and a final project performance report will also be required. These final reports may serve as the last quarterly reports. Grantees shall constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met, projected work by time periods is being accomplished, and other performance objectives are being achieved. All grantees except States should submit an original of each report and one copy to the appropriate Rural Development District Office. When the grantee is a State, an original should be submitted to the appropriate Rural Development State Office. The project performance reports shall include, but need not be limited to the following:

(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period;

(2) Reasons why established objectives were not met;

(3) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially affect attainment of planned project objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or contemplated and any Federal assistance needed to resolve the situation; and

(4) Objectives established for the next reporting period.

(b) For site development and land acquisition grants, grantees shall submit Form SF-271 for payment of site development costs. Multiple advances will be made in accordance with RD Instruction 1902-A (available in any Rural Development office) and will be made as needed to cover required disbursements for not less than 30 day periods. Advances will be requested for the next 30 day period by the grantee on Form SF-272, "Report of Federal Cash Transactions." Each payment estimate must be approved by the grantee. A final Form SF-272 will be submitted to Rural Development to include the final advance not later than 90 days after the final advance.
