
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1948 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT
###### Subpart B - Section 601 Energy Impacted Area Development Assistance Program
####### Exhibit A to Subpart B of Part 1948 - Grant Agreement - Growth Management and Housing Planning for Approved Designated Energy Impacted Areas

This Agreement is between

1. This agreement shall be effective when executed by both parties.

2. The scope of work set out below shall be completed prior to______________.

3. (a) Use of grant funds for travel which is determined as being necessary to the program for which the grant is established may be subject to the travel policies of the Grantee institution if they are uniformly applied regardless of the source of funds in determining the amounts and types of reimbursable travel expenses of Grantee staff and consultants. Where the Grantee institution does not have such specific policies uniformly applied, the Federal Travel Regulations shall apply in determining the amount charged to the grant. Grantee may purchase furniture and office equipment only if specifically approved in the scope of work. Approval will be given only when Grantee demonstrates that purchase is necessary and would result in less cost to the Government in providing Federal-share funds or to the Grantee in providing its contributions. Commercial purchase under these circumstances will be approved only after consideration of Federal supply sources.

(b) Expenses and Purchases Excluded:

(i) In no event shall the Grantee expend or request reimbursement from Federal-share funds for obligations entered into or for costs incurred or accrued prior to the effective date of this grant.

(ii) Funds budgeted under this grant may not be used for entertainment expenses.

(iii) Funds budgeted under this grant may not be used to pay for capital assets, the purchase of real estate or vehicles, improvement and renovation of space, and repair and maintenance of privately-owned vehicles.

(c) Grant funds shall not be used to replace any financial support previously provided or assured from any other source. The Grantee agrees that the general level of expenditure by the Grantee for the benefit of program area and/or program covered by this agreement shall be maintained and not reduced as a result of the Federal share funds received under this grant.

4. (a) In accordance with Treasury Circular 1075, grant funds will be disbursed by the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 as cash advances on an as-needed basis not to exceed one advance every 30 days. The financial management system of the recipient organization shall provide for effective control over and accountability for all Federal funds as stated in OMB Circular A-102 revised for State and local governments.

(b) Cash advances to the Grantee shall be limited to the minimum amounts needed and shall be timed to be in accord only with the actual, immediate cash requirements of the Grantee in carrying out the purpose of the planning project.

(c) The timing and amount of cash advances shall be as close as is administratively feasible to the actual disbursements by the recipient organization for direct program costs.

(d) Federal funds should be promptly refunded to the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and redrawn when needed if the funds are erroneously drawn in excess of immediate disbursement needs. The only exceptions to the requirement for prompt refunding are when the funds involved:

(i) Will be disbursed by the recipient organization within seven calendar days, or

(ii) Are less than $10,000 and will be disbursed within 30 calendar days.

(e) Grantee shall provide satisfactory evidence to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 that all officers of Grantee organization authorized to receive and/or disburse Federal funds are covered by such bonding and/or insurance requirements as are normally required by the Grantee.

(f) Grant funds will be placed in a bank account(s). If for any reason grant funds are invested, income earned on such investment shall be identified as interest income on grant funds and forwarded to the Finance Office, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, St. Louis, Missouri, unless the Grantee is a State. "State" includes instrumentalities of a State but not political subdivisions of a State. A State Grantee is not accountable for interest earned on grant funds.

5. The Grantee will submit Performance and Financial reports as indicated below:

(a) As needed, but not more frequently than once every 30 days, an original and 2 copies of Standard Form 270, "Request for Advance or Reimbursement;"

(b) Quarterly, an original and 2 copies of Standard Form 269, "Financial Status Report," and a Project Performance report according to the schedule below:

Period Date due

(c) Final, an original and 2 copies of Standard Form 269, "Financial Status Report," and a Project Performance report according to the schedule below:

Period Date due

(d) The Project Performance reports shall include but need not be limited to the following:

(i) A comparison of actual accomplishment to the objectives established for that period;

(ii) Reasons why established objectives were not met;

(iii) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially affect attainment of planned project objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a Statement of the action taken or comtemplated and any Federal assistance needed to resolve the situation; and

(iv) Objectives established for the next reporting period.

(e) All Grantees except States shall submit an original of each report and one copy to the appropriate FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 District Office. A State Grantee shall submit original reports to the appropriate FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Office.

(f) The plan(s) developed under this grant shall be submitted to the appropriate Governor for incorporation into the State Investment Strategy for Energy Impacted Areas. The Governor will submit the plan and the State Investment Strategy to the appropriate FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Office(s). The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Office will forward the plan and State Investment Strategy to the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 National Office for approval of the plan.

6. The Budget covered by this agreement is:

(a) In accordance with FMC 74-4, Attachment B, compensation for employees will be considered reasonable to the extent that such compensation is consistent with that paid for similar work in other activities of the State or local government.

(b) In accordance with OMB Circular A-102, Attachment K, transfers among direct cost budget categories of more than 5 percent of the total budget must have prior written approval by the State Director, Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

7. (a) The scope of work is described in the attached exhibit 1. The Grantee accepts responsibility for establishing a development process which will improve local conditions and alleviate problems associated with increased coal or uranium production in the Grantee areas. The Grantee shall:

(i) Develop a growth management and housing plan for assistance to approved designated area(s) impacted by increased coal or uranium production.

(ii) Contribute to development of a State Investment Strategy for Energy Impacted Areas.

(iii) Endeavor to coordinate and provide liaison with State development organizations, where they exist.

(iv) Provide continuing information to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 on the status of Grantee programs, projects, related activities, and problems.

(b) The Grantee shall inform the Grantor as soon as the following types of conditions become known:

(i) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which materially affect the ability to attain program objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules or goals, or preclude the attainment of project work units by established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or contemplated, and any Grantor assistance needed to resolve the situation.

(ii) Favorable developments or events which enable meeting time schedules and goals sooner than anticipated or producing more work units than originally projected.
