
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1948 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT
###### Subpart B - Section 601 Energy Impacted Area Development Assistance Program
####### Exhibit A to Subpart B of Part 1948 - Grant Agreement - Growth Management and Housing Planning for Approved Designated Energy Impacted Areas
######## Personal property,Nonexpendable personal property

1. To comply with property management standards established by Attachment N of OMB Circular A-102 for expendable and nonexpendable personal propertymeans property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible-having physical existence-or intangible-having no physical existence, such as patents, inventions, and copyrights.means tangible personal property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $300 or more per unit. A Grantee may use its own definition of nonexpendable personal property provided that such definition would at least include all tangible personal property as defined above. "Expendable personal property" refers to all tangible personal property other than nonexpendable property. When nonexpendable tangible property is acquired by a Grantee with project funds, title shall not be taken by the Federal Government but shall vest in the Grantee subject to the following conditions:

(a) Right to transfer title. For items of nonexpendable personal property having a unit acquisition cost of $1,000 or more, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 may reserve the right to transfer the title to the Federal Government or to a third party named by the Federal Government when such third party is otherwise eligible under existing statutes. Such reservation shall be subject to the following standards:

(1) The property shall be appropriately identified in the grant or otherwise made known to the Grantee in writing.

(2) FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after the end of the Federal support of the project for which it was acquired. If FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 fails to issue disposition instructions within the 120 calendar day period, the Grantee shall apply the standards of paragraph (4) below.

(3) When FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 exercises its right to take title, the personal property shall be subject to the provisions for federally owned nonexpendable property discussed in paragraph (4), below.

(4) When title is transferred either to the Federal Government or to a third party and the Grantee is instructed to ship the property elsewhere, the Grantee shall be reimbursed by the benefiting Federal agency with an amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the Grantee participation in the cost of the original grant project or program to the current fair market value of the property, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred.

(b) Use of other nontangible expendable property for which the Grantee has title.

(1) The Grantee shall use the property in the project or program for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds. When it is no longer needed for the original project or program, the Grantee shall use the property in connection with its other Federally sponsored activities, in the following order of priority:

(a) Activities sponsored by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(b) Activities sponsored by other Federal agencies.

(2) Shared use. During the time that nonexpendable personal property is held for use on the project or program for which it was acquired, the Grantee shall make it available for use on other projects or programs if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the property was originally acquired. First preference for such other use shall be given to other projects or programs sponsored by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354; second preference shall be given to projects or programs sponsored by other Federal agencies. If the property is owned by the Federal Government, use on other activities not sponsored by the Federal Government shall be permissable if authorized by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354. User charges should be considered if appropriate.

(c) Disposition of other nonexpendable property. When the Grantee no longer needs the property as provided in 1(a)(4) above, the property may be used for other activities in accordance with the following standards:

(1) Nonexpendable property with a unit acquisition cost of less than $1,000. The Grantee may use the property for other activities without reimbursement to the Federal Government or sell the property and retain the proceeds.

(2) Nonexpendable personal property with a unit acquisition cost of $1,000 or more. The Grantee may retain the property for other use provided that compensation is made to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 or its successor. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the property. If the Grantee has no need for the property and the property has further use value, the Grantee shall request disposition instructions from the original Grantor agency.

FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall determine whether the property can be used to meet the agency's requirements. If no requirement exists within that agency, the availability of the property shall be reported, in accordance with the guidelines of the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR), to the General Services Administration by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to determine whether a requirement for the property exists in other Federal agencies. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall issue instructions to the Grantee no later than 120 days after the Grantee request and the following procedures shall govern:

(a) If so instructed or if disposition instructions are not issued within 120 calendar days after the Grantee's request, the Grantee shall sell the property and reimburse FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 an amount computed by applying to the sales proceeds the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program. However, the Grantee shall be permitted to deduct and retain from the Federal share $100 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is greater, for the Grantee's selling and handling expenses.

(b) If the Grantee is instructed to dispose of the property other than as described in (1)(a)(4) above, the Grantee shall be reimbursed by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 for such costs incurred in its disposition.

(c) Property management standards for nonexpendable property. The Grantee's property management standards for nonexpendable personal property shall include the following procedural requirements:

(1) Property records shall be maintained accurately and shall include:

(a) A description of the property.

(b) Manufacturer's serial number, model number, Federal stock number, national stock number, or other identification number.

(c) Sources of the property including grant or other agreement number.

(d) Whether title vests in the Grantee or the Federal Government.

(e) Acquisition date (or date received, if the property was furnished by the Federal Government) and cost.

(f) Percentage (at the end of the budget year) of Federal participation in the cost of the project or program for which the property was acquired. (Not applicable to property furnished by the Federal Government.)

(g) Location, use and condition of the property and the date the information was reported.

(h) Unit acquisition cost.

(i) Ultimate disposition data, including date of disposal and sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value where a Grantee compensates the Federal agency for its share.

(2) Property owned by the Federal Government must be marked to indicate Federal ownership.

(3) A physical inventory of property shall be taken and the results reconciled with the property records at least once every two years. Any differences between quantities determined by the physical inspection and those shown in the accounting records shall be investigated to determine the causes of the difference. The Grantee shall, in connection with the inventory, verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the property.

(4) A control system shall be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of the property. Any loss, damage, or theft of nonexpendable property shall be investigated and fully documented; if the property was owned by the Federal Government, the Grantee shall promptly notify FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.

(5) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the property in good condition.

(6) Where the Grantee is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures shall be established which would provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.

(7) Expendable personal property shall vest in the Grantee upon acquisition. If there is a residual inventory of such property exceeding $1,000 in total aggregate fair market value, upon termination or completion of the grant and if the property is not needed for any other Federally sponsored project or program, the Grantee shall retain the property for use on nonfederally sponsored activities, or sell it, but must in either case compensate the Federal Government for its share. The amount of compensation shall be computed in the same manner as nonexpendable personal property.

2. To provide Financial Management Systems which will include:

(a) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant. Financial Reporting will be on an accrual basis.

(b) Records which identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supported activities. Those records shall contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.

(c) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property, and other assets. Grantee shall adequately safeguard all such assets and shall assure that they are used solely for authorized purposes.

(d) Accounting records supported by source documentation.

(e) Provide an audit report prepared in sufficient detail to allow Grantor to determine that funds have been used in compliance with the proposal any applicable laws and regulations and this agreement.

3. To retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least three years after closing except that the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period if audit findings have not been resolved. Microfilm copies may be substituted in lieu of original records. The Grantor and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the Grantee which are pertinent to the specific grant program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcripts.

4. To provide information as requested by the Grantor to determine the need for and complete any necessary Environmental Impact Statements.

5. To provide information as requested by the Grantor concerning the Grantee's actions in soliciting citizen participation in the application process, including published notice of public meetings, actual public meetings held, and content of written comments received.

6. To account for and to return to Grantor interest earned on grant funds pending their disbursement for program purposes unless the Grantee is a State. See part A 4(f) above.

7. Not to encumber, transfer, or dispose of the property or any part thereof, furnished by the Grantor or acquired wholly or in part with Grantor funds without the written consent of the Grantor except as provided in part B 1.

8. To provide Grantor such periodic reports as it may require of Grantee operations by designated representative of the Grantor.

9. To execute Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement," and to execute any other agreements required by Grantor to implement the civil rights requirements.

10. To include in all contracts in excess of $100,000 a provision for compliance with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act of 1970. Violations shall be reported to the Grantor and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency.

11. That, upon any default under its representations or agreements set forth in this instrument, Grantee, at the option and demand of Grantor, will, to the extent legally permissible, repay to the Grantor forthwith the original principal amount of the grant stated herein above, with interest at the rate of five per centum per annum from the date of the default. The provisions of this Grant Agreement may be enforced by Grantor, at its option and without regard to prior waivers by it of previous defaults of Grantee, by judicial proceedings to require specific performance of the terms of this Grant Agreement or by such other proceedings in law or equity, in either Federal or State courts, as may be deemed necessary by Grantor to assure compliance with the provisions of this Grant Agreement and the laws and regulations under which this grant is made.

12. That no member of Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom; but this provision shall not be construed to bar as a contractor under the grant a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.

13. That all non-confidential information resulting from its activities shall be made available to the general public on an equal basis.

14. That the purpose and scope of work for which this grant is made shall not duplicate programs for which monies have been received, are committed, or are applied for from other sources, public and private.

15. That the Grantee shall relinquish any and all copyrights and/or privileges to the materials developed under this grant, such material being the sole property of the Federal Government. In the event anything developed under this grant is published in whole or in part, the material shall contain notice and be identified by language to the following effect: "The material is the result of tax-supported research and as such is not copyrightable. It may be freely reprinted with the customary crediting of the source."

16. That the Grantee shall abide by the policies promulgated in OMB Circular A-102, Attachment O, which provides standards for use by Grantees in establishing procedures for the procurement of supplies, equipment, and other services with Federal grant funds.

17. To the following termination provisions:

(a) Termination for cause: The Grantor agency may terminate any grant in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion, whenever it is determined that the Grantee has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant. The Grantor agency shall promptly notify the Grantee in writing of the determination and the reasons for the termination, together with the effective date.

(b) Termination for convenience. The Grantor agency or Grantee may terminate grants in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial terminations, the portion to be terminated. The Grantee shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The Grantor agency shall allow full credit to the Grantee for the Federal share of the noncancelable obligations, properly incurred by the Grantee prior to termination.

1. That it will assist Grantee, within available appropriations, with such technical assistance as Grantor deems appropriate in planning the project and coordinating the plan with local official comprehensive plans and with any State or area plans for the area in which the project is located.

2. That at its sole discretion, Grantor may at any time give any consent, deferment, subordination, release, satisfaction, or termination of any or all of Grantee's grant obligations, with or without valuable consideration, upon such terms and conditions as Grantor may determine to be (a) advisable to further the purposes of the grant or to protect Grantor's financial interest therein, and (b) consistent with both the statutory purposes of the grant and the limitations of the statutory authority under which it is made.

This agreement is subject to current Grantor regulations and any future regulations not inconsistent with the express terms hereof.

Grantee on ______________________, 19____, has caused this agreement to be executed by its duly authorized ______________________ and attested and its corporate seal affixed by its duly authorized ______________________.
