
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1948 - RURAL DEVELOPMENT
###### Subpart B - Section 601 Energy Impacted Area Development Assistance Program
####### Exhibit B to Subpart B of Part 1948 - Grant Agreement (Public Bodies) for Site Development and/or Site Acquisition for Housing and/or Public Facilities and/or Services

This agreement dated ____________________, 19__, between ____________________________________ a public body corporate organized and operating under ________________________ (Authorizing State Statute)

Herein called "Grantee," and the United States of America acting through the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, Department of Agriculture, herein called "Grantor," Witnesseth:

Grantee has determined to undertake a project for site acquisition and/or site development as follows: ______________________________ (herein called project) to serve the approved designated energy impacted area under its jurisdiction at an estimated cost of $__________, and has duly authorized the undertaking of such project;

Grantee is able to finance not more than $__________ of the site acquisition and/or site development costs through revenues, charges, taxes or assessments, or funds otherwise available to Grantee. Said sum has been committed to and by Grantee for such project acquisition and/or site development costs.

The Grantor agrees to grant to Grantee a sum not to exceed $__________ subject to the terms and conditions established by the Grantor. Provided, however, that the proportionate share of any grant funds actually advanced and not needed for grant purposes shall be returned immediately to the Grantor. The Grantor may terminate the grant in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion, whenever it is determined that the Grantee has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant.

In consideration of said grant by Grantor to Grantee, to be made pursuant to Section 601 of the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-620) for the purpose only of defraying a part of the acquisition and/or site development costs, as defined by applicable Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 regulations:

1. Cause said project to be completed within the total sums available to it, including said grant, in accordance with the project plans and specifications and any necessary modifications thereof prepared by Grantee and approved by Grantor.

2. Permit periodic inspection of the project by a representative of Grantor.

3. Make the housing or public facility or services available to all persons in Grantee's servce area without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, marital status, age, physical or mental handicap.

4. Use the real property including land and land improvements for authorized purposes of the grant as long as needed.

a. The Grantee shall obtain approval of the Grantor before using the real property for other purposes when the Grantee determines that the property is no longer for the original purposes.

b. When the real property is no longer needed as provided above, return all real property furnished or purchased wholly with Federal grant funds to the Grantor. In the case of property purchased in part with Federal grant funds, the Grantee may be permitted to take title to the Federal interest therein upon compensating the Federal Government for its fair share of the property. The Federal share of the property shall be the amount computed by applying the percentage of the Federal Participation in the total cost of the grant program for which the property was acquired to the current fair market value of the property.

5. Not use grant funds to replace any financial support previously provided or assured from any other source. The Grantee agrees that the general level of expenditure by the Grantee for the benefit of program area and/or program covered by this agreement shall be maintained and not reduced as a result of the Federal share funds received under this grant.

6. Not use grant funds to pay for construction costs of housing or public facilities.

This Grant Agreement covers the following described real property (use continuation sheets as necessary).

7. Abide by the following conditions pertaining to nonexpendable personal property which is furnished by the Grantor or acquired wholly or in part with Grant Funds.

a. The Grantee shall retain such property as long as there is a need for the property to accomplish the purpose of the grant. When there is no longer a need for the property to accomplish the purpose of the grant, the Grantee shall use the property in connection with other Federal grants it has received in the following order of priority.

(1) Other grant of the Grantor needing the property.

(2) Grants of other Federal agencies needing the property.

b. When the Grantee no longer has need for the property in any of its Federal grant programs, the property may be used for its own official activities in accordance with the following standards:

(1) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of less than $500 and used four years or more. The Grantee may use the property for its own official activities without reimbursement to the Federal Government or sell the property and retain the proceeds.

(2) All other nonexpendable property. The Grantee may retain the property for its own use provided that a fair compensation is made to the Grantor. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of the Grantor participation in the grant program to the current fair market value of the property as determined by the Grantor.

c. If the Grantee has no need for the property, disposition shall be made as follows:

(1) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of $1,000 or less. Except for that property which meets the criteria of b(1) above, the Grantee shall sell the property and reimburse the Grantor an amount which is computed in accordance with (3) below.

(2) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of over $1,000. The Grantee shall request disposition instructions from Grantor.

(3) If disposition instructions are not issued within 120 days after reporting, the Grantee shall sell the property and reimburse the Grantor an amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the Grantor participation in the grant program to the sales proceeds. Further, the Grantee shall be permitted to retain $100 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is greater, for the Grantee's selling and handling expenses.

d. The Grantee's property management standards for nonexpendable personal property shall also include:

(1) Property records which accurately provide for: a description of the property; manufacturer's serial number or other identification number; acquisition date and cost; sources of the property; and ultimate disposition data including sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value if the Grantee reimburses the Grantor for its share.

(2) A physical inventory of property shall be taken and the result reconciled with the property records at least once every two years to verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the property.

(3) A control system shall be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft to the property shall be investigated and fully documented.

(4) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the property in good condition.

(5) Proper sales procedures shall be established for unneeded property which would provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.

8. Provide Financial Management Systems which will include:

(a) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant. Financial Reporting will be on an accrual basis.

(b) Records which identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supporting activities. Those records shall contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.

(c) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property and other assets. Grantees shall adequately safeguard all such assets and shall assure that they are used solely for authorized purposes.

(d) Accounting records supported by source documentation.

9. Retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least three years after grant closing except that the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period if audit findings have not been resolved. Microfilm copies may be substituted in lieu of original records. The Grantor and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the Grantee governments which are pertinent to the specific grant program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcripts.

10. Provide information as requested by the Grantor to determine the need for and complete any necessary Environmental Impact Statements.

11. Provide an audit report prepared in sufficient detail to allow the Grantor to determine that funds have been used in compliance with the proposal, any applicable laws and regulations and this agreement.

12. Agree to account for and to return to Grantor interest earned on grant funds pending their disbursement for program purposes when the Grantee is a unit of local government. States and agencies of instrumentalities of states shall not be held accountable for interest earned on grant funds pending their disbursement.

13. Not encumber, transfer, or dispose of the property or any part thereof, furnished by the Grantor or acquired wholly or in part with Grantor funds without the written consent of the Grantor except as provided in item 5 above.

14. Provide Grantor with such periodic reports as it may require and permit periodic inspection of its operations by a designated representative of the Grantor.

15. Execute Form FHA 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement," Form FHA 400-4, "Nondiscrimination Agreement," and any other agreements required by Grantor to implement the civil rights requirements. If any such form has been executed by Grantee as a result of a loan being made to Grantee by Grantor contemporaneously with the making of this grant, another form of the same type need not be executed in connection with this grant.

16. Include in all contracts for construction or repair a provision for compliance with the Copeland "Anti-Kick Back" Act (18 U.S.C. 874) as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR, part 3). The Grantee shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Grantor.

17. In Contracts in excess of $2,000 and in other contracts in excess of $2,500 which involve the employment of mechanics or laborers, to include a provision for compliance with sections 103 and 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-330) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR, part 5).

18. Include in all contracts in excess of $2,500 a provision for compliance with applicable regulations and standards of the Cost of Living Council in establishing wages and prices. Grantee shall report any violations of such regulation and standards to the Grantor and the local Internal Revenue Service field office.

19. Include in all contracts in excess of $100,000 a provision for compliance with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued pursuant to the Clear Air Act of 1970. Violations shall be reported to the Grantor and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency.

20. Upon any default under its representations or agreements set forth in this instrument, Grantee, at the option and the demand of Grantor, will, to the extent legally permissible, repay to Grantor forthwith the original principal amount of the grant stated hereinabove, with interest at the rate of five per centum per annum from the date of the default. The provisions of this Grant Agreement may be enforced by Grantor at its option and without regard to prior waivers by it of previous defaults of Grantee, by judicial proceedings to require specific performance of the terms of this Grant Agreement or by such other proceedings in law or equity, in either Federal or State courts, as may be deemed necessary by Grantor to assure compliance with the provisions of this Grant Agreement and the laws and regulations under which this grant is made.

21. That no member of Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom; but this provision shall not be construed to bar as a contractor under the grant a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.

22. That all non-confidential information resulting from its activities shall be made available to the general public on an equal basis.

23. That the purpose and scope of work for which this grant is made shall not duplicate programs for which monies have been received are committed, or are applied for from other sources, public and private.

24. That Grantee shall relinquish any and all copyrights and/or privileges to the materials developed under this grant, such material being the sole property of the Federal Government. In the event anything developed under this grant is published in whole or in part, the material shall contain notice and be identified by language to the following effect: "The material is the result of tax-supported research and as such is not copyrightable. It may be freely reprinted with the customary crediting of the source."

25. That the Grantee shall abide by the policies promulgated in OMB Circular A-95, Attachment O, which provides standards for use by Grantees in establishing procedures for the procurement of supplies, equipment, and other services with Federal grant funds.

26. To the following termination provisions:

(a) Termination for cause: The Grantor agency may terminate any grant in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion, whenever it is determined that the Grantee has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant. The Grantor agency shall promptly notify the Grantee in writing of the determination and the reasons for the termination, together with the effective date.

(b) Termination for convenience. The Grantor agency or Grantee may terminate grants in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial terminations, the portion to be terminated. The Grantee shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The Grantor agency shall allow full credit to the Grantee for the Federal share of the noncancelable obligations, properly incurred by the Grantee prior to termination.

1. Assist Grantee, within available appropriations, with such technical assistance as Grantor deems appropriate in planning the project and coordinating the plan with local official comprehensive plans and with any State or area plans for the area in which the project is located.

2. In its sole discretion, Grantor may at any time give any consent, deferment, subordination, release, satisfaction, or termination of any or all of Grantee's grant obligations, with or without valuable consideration, upon such terms and conditions as Grantor may determine to be (a) advisable to further the purposes of the grant or to protect Grantor's financial interest therein, and (b) consistent with both the statutory purposes of the grant and the limitations of the statutory authority under which it is made.
