
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1950 - GENERAL
###### Subpart C - Servicing Accounts of Borrowers Entering the Armed Forces
####### ยง 1950.104 Borrower owing Rural Development loans which are secured by real estate.
######## Power of attorney.

(a)Borrowers entering the armed forces who retain ownership of the security should be encouraged to execute a power of attorney authorizing the person of their choice to take any actions necessary to insure proper use and maintenance of the security, payment of insurance and taxes, and repayment of the loan. No Rural Development employee will act as attorney-in-fact for a borrower. The State Director will consult with OGC concerning any limitations upon the use of a power of attorney under local law and the circumstances under which the power of attorney should be exercised. In general, either spouse may act as attorney-in-fact for the other spouse, but, in a few States, a spouse cannot exercise the power of attorney in connection with a sale or encumbrance of the homestead. In a majority of States, a power of attorney is revoked by the death of a person granting the power, but, in some States, the power of attorney executed by a person in the armed services remains valid until actual notice is received of the death of the person granting the power. A power of attorney should not be used in conveying title to the farm except in those States where the power is good until actual notice of death. The State Director will request OGC to prepare a satisfactory form of power of attorney which may be duplicated in the State Office and furnished to County Supervisors with a State supplement concerning its use.
