
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1950 - GENERAL
###### Subpart C - Servicing Accounts of Borrowers Entering the Armed Forces
####### ยง 1950.103 Borrower owing Rural Development loans which are secured by chattels.
######## Statements of accounts and transfers.

(c)Borrowers entering the armed forces will be requested to designate mailing addresses for the delivery of statements of account. Any changes in these addresses will be processed on Form RD 450-10, "Advice of Borrower's Change of Address, Name, Case Number, or Loan Number" with appropriate explanations. Under this procedure, a statement of account may be mailed to a location other than where the account is maintained and serviced. This is a deviation from the established procedure. These cases will not be transferred unless the security, when retained by the borrower in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, is moved into another County Office territory. Then the transfer will be processed through the use of Form RD 450-5, "Application to Move Security Property and Verification of Address," and Form RD 450-10 with appropriate explanations. In cases when assumption agreements have been executed, statements of account will be mailed to the assuming borrower. Cases involving assumption agreements will be transferred when the assuming borrower moves from one County Office territory to another.
