
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1950 - GENERAL
###### Subpart C - Servicing Accounts of Borrowers Entering the Armed Forces
####### ยง 1950.103 Borrower owing Rural Development loans which are secured by chattels.
######## Methods of handling.

(b)In carrying out the above policy, the cases of borrowers entering the armed forces will be handled in accordance with one of the following methods:

(1) Voluntary sale of security. This will be accomplished in accordance with ยง 1962.41 of subpart A of part 1962 of this chapter. Any necessary forms will be signed:

(i) Before being accepted for service in the armed forces, if the sale is to be completed before the borrower is accepted for service, or

(ii) After being accepted for service, if the sale cannot be completed before the borrower is so accepted. For this purpose, an individual will be considered as accepted for service after being ordered to report for induction, or, if in the enlisted reserve, after being ordered to report for service in the armed forces.

(2) Assumption of indebtedness. This will be accomplished in accordance with ยง 1962.34 of subpart A of part 1962 of this chapter.

(3) Arrangements with third persons. When the borrower arranges with a relative or other reliable person to maintain the security in a satisfactory manner and to make scheduled payments, the State Director is authorized to approve the arrangement. In such a case, the borrower will be required to execute a power of attorney, prepared or approved by OGC, authorizing an attorney-in-fact to act for the borrower during the latter's absence.

(4) Possible legal actions. If the borrower fails or refuses to cooperate in the servicing of the loan indebtedness secured by chattels in accordance with one of the methods set forth in this section, the borrower's case folder will be forwarded to the State Director for referral to OGC for legal advice as to the steps to be taken in protecting the Government's interest.
