
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1950 - GENERAL
###### Subpart C - Servicing Accounts of Borrowers Entering the Armed Forces
####### ยง 1950.104 Borrower owing Rural Development loans which are secured by real estate.
######## Borrower abandons the security or fails to make satisfactory arrangements.,not

(d)This paragraph doesapply to borrowers with FO, SW, RL, OL, EE, EM, SL, EO, ST and/or RHF loans. Those borrowers should be sent exhibit A and the appropriate attachments as outlined in subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter. When a borrower abandons the security or fails to make satisfactory arrangements for maintenance of the security and payment of taxes, insurance, and installments on the loan, the County Supervisor will send a complete report on the case to the State Director. The report will include all the information that can be obtained regarding the borrower's plans for the security and any evidence to indicate that abandonment has, in fact, taken place. In these instances, it must be recognized that the borrower may have entered into verbal arrangements for the care of the security without properly advising the County Supervisor. Whether such cases may be construed to be in violation of the provisions of the mortgage, so as to support foreclosure by order of the Court under the provisions of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, will need to be determined on an individual case basis by the State Director and OGC. Clear-cut abandonment cases or instances in which the borrower fails to take action to transfer or sell the property, while evidencing no interest in it or desire to retain it, will be processed in accordance with applicable procedures.
