
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart A - Account Servicing Policies
####### ยง 1951.7 Accounts of borrowers.
######## Loan Summary Statements.

(h)Upon request of a borrower, Rural Development issues a loan summary statement that shows the account activity for each loan made or insured under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act. The field office will post on the bulletin board a notice informing the borrower of the availability of the loan summary statement. See Exhibit A for a sample of the required notice.

(1) The loan summary statement period is from January 1 through December 31. The Finance Office forwards a copy of Form RD 1951-9, "Annual Statement of Loan Account," to field offices to be retained in borrower files as a permanent record of borrower activity for the year.

(2) Quarterly Forms RD 1951-9 are retained in the Finance Office on microfiche. These quarterly statements reflect cumulative data from the beginning of the current year through the end of the most recent quarter. If a borrower requests a loan summary statement with data through the most recent quarter, county supervisors may request copies of these quarterly or annual statements by sending Form RD 1951-57, "Request for Loan Summary Statement," to the Finance Office.

(3) When a loan summary statement is requested by the borrower, the field office will copy the applicable annual or quarterly Forms RD 1951-9. A copy(ies) of Form RD 1951-9 and a copy of the promissory note showing borrower installments will constitute the loan summary statement provided to the borrower.
