
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart A - Account Servicing Policies
####### ยง 1951.7 Accounts of borrowers.
######## Accounts of collection-only borrowers.

(b)(1) Collection-only borrowers are expected to pay debts to the Agency in accordance with their ability to pay. Efforts to collect such debts, including use of collection letters and account servicing visits, must be coordinated with other program activities. If these borrowers are unable to pay in full, appropriate debt settlement policies should be promptly applied.

(2) Envelopes addressed to collection-only borrowers will bear the legend "DO NOT FORWARD." When an envelope is returned indicating the borrower has moved, appropriate steps will be taken to determine the borrower's correct address.

(3) Regular County Office employees are generally expected to service the collection-only caseload when it is of moderate size. State Directors may assign additional employees to County Offices having large collection-only caseloads when necessary to service such cases to a prompt conclusion. State Directors may inform the National Office of the need for employing special collection personnel in urban areas having large collection-only caseloads when employees are not available to assign to such areas.

(4) The following actions will be taken in servicing accounts owed by collection-only borrowers:
