
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart A - Account Servicing Policies
####### ยง 1951.7 Accounts of borrowers.
######## Subsequent servicing.

(d)(1) When a Farmer Program borrower fails to make a payment as agreed, the County Supervisor will notify the borrower in accordance with subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter.

(2) When a borrower other than a Farmer Program borrower fails to make a payment as agreed, the County Supervisor will contact the borrower to discuss the reasons why the payment was not made and to develop specific plans, for making the payment. Form RD, "Notice of Payment Due," may be used to notify borrowers who make payments directly to the Finance Office that their payment has not been received. Form RD 450-13, "Request for Assignment of Income From Trust Property," may be used when other methods of loan collection fail and debt repayment is possible from trust income. In the event the borrower refuses to make the payment when income is available, or if it is determined that income will not be available to make the payment within a reasonable length of time and will not be available to make future payments, action will be taken to protect the Government's interest in accordance with applicable regulations. Followup actions of subsequent servicing will be noted on appropriate Management System Cards.
