
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart A - Account Servicing Policies
####### ยง 1951.11 Application of payments on real estate accounts.
######## Form RD 389-404,

(A) Advances from the insurance funds as shown on the latest"Analysis of Accounts Maturing." (If the collection is intended for final payment of the loan, or to pay the insurance account in connection with an assumption agreement, the collection will be applied first to the interest accrued on the advance to the date of the payment.)

(B) Principal advanced from the insurance fund.

(C) Unamortized costs.

(D) Amount due for amortized costs for taxes and insurance.

(E) Unpaid loan insurance charges, including the current year's charge, when applicable.

(F) First to a portion of any interest which accrues during the deferral period, second to accrued interest to the date of the payment on the note account and then to the principal balance of the note account in accordance with the terms of the note.

(2) Extra payments and refunds will be credited to the borrower's note account as of the date of Form RD 451-2 and will be applied first to a portion of any interest which accrues during the deferral period, second to interest accrued to the date of the receipt and third to principal in accordance with the terms of the note. The amount to be applied to principal will be applied to the final unpaid installment(s). Extra payments and refunds will not affect the schedule status of a borrower except indirectly in connection with the amortization of a direct loan.

(3) The Finance Office will remit final payments promptly to lenders. Other collections (regular, extra, and refunds) applied to a borrower's insured note will be accumulated until the annual installment due date, and will be remitted along with any advances from the insurance fund to the lender within 30 days after the installment due date. All payments to a lender will be credited first to interest to the date of the Treasury check and then to principal. Since the application of a payment to a borrower's account with the Government and the Government's account with a lender is of a different effective date, the balance owed by a borrower to the government and by the Government to a lender ordinarily will not be the same.
