
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart D - Final Payment on Loans
####### ยง 1951.155 County and/or District Office actions.
######## Delivery of satisfaction, notes, and other documents.

(c)When the remittance which paid an account in full has been processed by RD, the paid note and satisfied mortgage may be returned to the borrower. If other provisions exist, the mortgage will not be satisfied until the total indebtedness secured by the mortgage is paid. For instance, in a situation where a rural housing loan is paid-in-full and there is a subsidy recapture receivable balance that the borrower elects to delay repaying, the amount of recapture to be repaid will be determined when the principal and interest balance is paid. The mortgage securing the RHS, RBS, RUS, and/or FSA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 debt will not be released of record until the total amount owed the Government is repaid. To permit graduation or refinancing by the borrower, the mortgage securing the recapture owed may be subordinated.

(1) If RD receives final payments in a form other than cash, U.S. Treasury check, cashier's check, certified check, money order, bank draft, or check issued by an institution determined by RD to be financially responsible, the mortgage and paid note will not be released until after a 30-day waiting period. If other indebtedness to RD is not secured by the mortgage, RD will execute the satisfaction or release. When the stamped note is delivered to the borrower, RD will also deliver the real estate mortgage and related title papers such as title opinions, title insurance binders, certificates of title, and abstracts which are the property of the borrower. Any water stock certificates or other securities that are the property of the borrower will be returned to the borrower. Also, any assignments of income will be terminated as provided in the assignment forms.

(2) Delivery of documents at the time of final payment will be made when payment is in the form of cash, U.S. Treasury check, cashier's check, certified check, money order, bank draft, or check issued by an institution determined by RD to be responsible. RD will not accept payment in the form of foreign currency, foreign checks or sight drafts. RD will execute the satisfaction or release (unless other indebtedness to RD is covered by the mortgage) and mark the original note with a paid-in-full legend based upon receipt of the full payment balance of the borrower's account(s), computed as of the date final payment is received. In unusual cases where an insured promissory note is held by a private holder, RD can release the mortgage and deliver the note when it is received.

(d)-(e) [Reserved]
