
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.220 General servicing actions.
######## Loan summary statements.

(b)Upon request of a borrower, Rural Development will issue a loan summary statement showing account activity for each loan made or insured under the CONACT. Field offices will post a notice on the bulletin board informing borrowers of the availability of loan summary statements. See exhibit A of subpart A of this part for a sample of the required notice.

(1) The loan summary statement period is from January 1 through December 31. The Finance Office forwards to field offices a copy of Form RD 1951-9, "Annual Statement of Loan Account," to be retained in borrower files as a permanent record of account activity for the year.

(2) Quarterly Form RD 1951-9 are retained in the Finance Office on microfiche. These statements reflect cumulative data from the beginning of the current year through the end of the most recent quarter. Servicing offices may request copies of these quarterly or annual statements by sending Form RD 1951-57, "Request for Loan Summary Statement," to the Finance Office.

(3) The servicing office will provide a copy of the applicable loan summary statement to the borrower on request. A copy of Form RD 1951-9 and, for loans with unamortized installments, a printout of future installments owed obtained using the borrower status screen option in the Automated Discrepancy Processing System (ADPS), will constitute the loan summary statement to be provided to the borrower.
