
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.222 Subordination of security.
######## General.

(a)The following requirements must normally be met:

(1) The request must be for subordination of a specific amount of the Rural Development indebtedness.

(2) It must be determined that the borrower cannot refinance its Rural Development debt in accordance with subpart F of part 1951 of this chapter.

(3) The transaction will further the purposes for which the Rural Development loan was made, not adversely affect the borrower's debt-paying ability, and result in the Rural Development debt being adequately secured.

(4) The terms and conditions of the prior lien will be such that the borrower can reasonably be expected to meet them as well as the requirements of all other debts.

(5) Any proposed development work will be planned and performed according to ยง 1942.18 of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter or in a manner directed by the creditor which reasonably attains the objectives of that section.

(6) All contracts, pay estimates, and change orders will be reviewed and concurred in by the State Director.

(7) In cases involving land purchase, the Rural Development will obtain a mortgage on the purchased land.

(8) When the transaction involves more than $10,000 or the approval official considers it necessary, a present market value appraisal report will be obtained. However, a new report need not be obtained if there is an appraisal report not over one year old which permits a proper determination of the present market value of the total property after the transaction.

(9) The proposed action must not change the nature of the borrower's activities so as to make it ineligible for Rural Development loan assistance.

(10) Necessary consent and subordination of all other outstanding security interests must be obtained.
