
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.223 Reamortization.
######## New debt instruments or agreements.

(5)(i) A copy will be sent to the Finance Office after execution, except that if serial bonds are used, the original bond(s) will be submitted to the Finance Office.

(ii) Any agreement used will contain:

(A) The amount delinquent, which must equal the total delinquency on the account and net advances (the unpaid principal on any advance and the accrued interest on any advance through the date of reamortization, less interest payments credited on the advance account);

(B) The effective date of the reamortization;

(C) The number of years over which the delinquency will be amortized;

(D) The repayment schedule; and

(E) The interest rate.

(iii) A payment will be due on the next scheduled due date. Deferment of interest and/or principal payments is not authorized.

(iv) A separate new instrument will be required for each loan being reamortized.

(v) If amortized payments are not used, the schedule of principal installments developed will be such that combined payments of principal and interest closely approximate an amortized payment.
