
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.223 Reamortization.
######## Bonds and notes with other than real or chattel security pledged to Rural Development.

(4)Loans evidenced by bonds, or by notes with other than real or chattel security pledged to Rural Development, may be reamortized using procedures acceptable to the State Director and legally permissible under State statutes in the opinion of the borrower's counsel and the OGC.

(i) The procedure may consist of a new debt instrument or agreement for the total Rural Development indebtedness, including the delinquency, or a new instrument or agreement whereby the borrower agrees to repay the delinquency plus interest. If a new instrument or agreement for only the delinquent amount is used, a new loan number will be assigned to the delinquent amount, and the borrower will be required to pay the amounts due under both the original and the new instruments.

(ii) When a delinquent or problem loan cannot be reamortized by issuing a new debt instrument due to State statutes, or the cost of preparation and closing is prohibitive, the rescheduling agreement provided as Exhibit H of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office), may be used.

(iii) Section 1942.19 of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter applies to any new bonds issued unless precluded by State statutes or an exception is approved by the National Office.

(iv) If State statutes do not require the release of existing bonds, they will be retained with the new bond instrument or agreement in the Rural Development office authorized to store such documents. If State statutes require release of existing bonds, the exchange will be accomplished by the District Director, and the new bond and/or agreement will be retained in the appropriate office.
