
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### § 1951.226 Sale or exchange of security property.
######## Releasing security.

(2)(i) The District Director is authorized to satisfy or terminate chattel security instruments when § 1951.226(b) of this subpart and § 1962.17 and § 1962.27 of subpart A of part 1962 of this chapter have been complied with. Partial release may be made by using Form RD 460-1, "Partial Release," or Form RD 462-12, "Statements of Continuation, Partial Release, Assignment, Etc."

(ii) Subject to § 1951.226(b) of this subpart, the State Director is authorized to release part or all of an interest in real estate security by approving Form RD 465-1. Partial release of real estate security may be made by use of Form RD 460-1 or other form approved by OGC.

(3) Rural Development liens will not be released until the sale proceeds are received for application on the Government's claim. In states where it is necessary to obtain the insured note from the lender to present to the recorder before releasing a portion of the land from the mortgage, the borrower must pay any cost for postage and insurance of the note while in transit. The District Director will advise the borrower when it requests a partial release that it must pay these costs. If the borrower is unable to pay the costs from its own funds, the amounts shown on the statement of actual costs furnished by the insured lender may be deducted from the sale proceeds.
