
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.226 Sale or exchange of security property.
######## General.

(b)Approval may be given when the approval official determines and documents that:

(1) The consideration is adequate;

(2) The release will not prevent carrying out the purpose of the loan;

(3) The remaining property is adequate security for the loan or the transaction will not adversely affect Rural Development's security position;

(4) If the property to be sold or exchanged is to be used for the same or similar purposes for which the loan or grant was made, the purchaser will:

(i) Execute Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement." The covenants involved will remain in effect as long as the property continues to be used for the same or similar purposes for which the loan or grant was made. The instrument of conveyance will contain the covenant referenced in ยง 1951.204 of this subpart; and

(ii) Provide to Rural Development a written agreement assuming all rights and obligations of the original grantee if grant funds were provided. See ยง 1951.215 of this subpart for additional guidance on grant agreements.

(5) The proceeds remaining after paying any reasonable and necessary selling expenses are used for one or more of the following purposes:

(i) To pay on Rural Development debts according to ยง 1951.221 of this subpart; on debts secured by a prior lien; and on debts secured by a subsequent lien if it is to Rural Development's advantage.

(ii) To purchase or acquire through exchange property more suited to the borrower's needs, if the Rural Development debt will be as well secured after the transaction as before.

(iii) To develop or enlarge the facility if necessary to improve the borrower's debt-paying ability; place the operation on a sounder basis; or otherwise further the loan objectives and purposes.

(6) Disposition of property acquired in whole or part with Rural Development grant funds will be handled in accordance with the grant agreement.
