
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.230 Transfer of security and assumption of loans.
######## Ineligible applicants.

(d)Except as noted in ยง 1951.230(b) of this subpart, the State Director is authorized to approve transfer and assumptions to transferees who would not be eligible for financial assistance under the loan program involved for the type of loan being transferred. However, the State Director is authorized to approve all transfers of incorporated Economic Opportunity Cooperative loans to ineligible applicants without regard to the requirements set forth in ยง 1951.230(b). Such transfers are considered only when an eligible transferee is not available or when the recovery to Rural Development from a transfer to an available eligible transferee would be less. Transfers are not to be considered as a means by which members of the transferor's governing body can obtain an equity or as a method of providing a source of easy credit for purchasers.

(1) Ineligible applicants must pay a one-time nonrefundable transfer fee when they submit an application or proposal.

(i) The National Office will issue a directive annually advising the field of the amount of the fee. Any cost for appraisals performed by non-Rural Development personnel will be handled in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office), and will be added to the basic fee.

(ii) Transfer fees will be deposited in accordance with current instructions governing the handling of collections. The fees will be identified as transfer fees on Form RD 451-2, "Schedule of Remittances," and will be included on the Daily Activity Report. The amount will be credited to the Rural Development Insurance Fund.

(iii) If the State Director determines waiver of the transfer fee is in the best interest of the government, he or she will request prior approval by submitting the transfer case file established in accordance with processing requirements set forth below to the National Office, Attention (appropriate program division).

(2) Any funds remaining in a supervised bank account will be refunded to Rural Development and applied to the debt as a condition of transfer.

(3) The interest rate will be the greater of the rate specified for the note in current Finance Office records or the market rate for Community Programs as of the transfer closing date.

(4) The transferred loan will be identified as an NP loan and serviced in accordance with ยง 1951.216 of this subpart.

(5) Form RD 465-5, "Transfer of Real Estate Security," will be used, and will be modified as appropriate before execution.

(6) Consideration will be given to obtaining individual liability agreements from members of the transferee organization.
