
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.227 Protective advances.

The State Director is authorized to approve, without regard to any loan or total indebtedness limitation, vouchers to pay costs, including insurance and real estate taxes, to preserve and protect the security, the lien, or the priority of the lien securing the debt owed to or insured by Rural Development if the debt instrument provides that Rural Development may voucher the account to protect its lien or security. The State Director must determine that authorizing a protective advance is in the best interest of the government. For insurance, factors such as the amount of advance, occupancy of the structure, vulnerability to damage and present value of the structure and contents will be considered.

(a) Protective advances are considered due and payable when advanced. Advances bear interest at the rate specified in the most recent debt instrument authorizing such an advance.

(b) Protective advances are not to be used as a substitute for a loan.

(c) Vouchers are prepared in accordance with applicable procedures set forth in RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office).
