
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.230 Transfer of security and assumption of loans.
######## Rates and terms.

(10)(i) If the transfer will be closed at the same rates and terms, the transferee will be informed of the amount needed to be on schedule by the next installment due date.

(ii) If the transfer will be closed at new rates and terms, the transferee will be informed of the amount of principal and interest owed based on information obtained using the ADPS status screen option.

(11) The effective date of a transfer is the actual date the transfer is closed, which is the same date Form RD 1951-15 or other appropriate assumption agreement is signed.

(12) Title to all assets will be conveyed from the transferor to the transferee unless other arrangements are agreed upon by all parties concerned, including Rural Development. All instruments of conveyance will contain the covenant referenced in ยง 1951.204 of this subpart.

(13) If an insured loan being held by an investor is involved, the Finance Office will have to repurchase the note prior to processing the assumption agreement.

(14) When National Office approval is required, the transfer case file will be submitted to the Administrator, Attention: (appropriate program division), with Exhibit A of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office), appropriately completed, and a cover memorandum which denotes any unusual circumstances.

(15) The District Director must review Form RD 1910-11, "Applicant Certification, Federal Collection Policies for Consumer or Commercial Debts," with the applicant, and the form must be signed by the applicant and included in the file.
