
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.230 Transfer of security and assumption of loans.
######## Eligible applicants.

(c)Except as noted in ยง 1951.230(b) of this subpart, the State Director is authorized to approve transfers of security property to and assumptions of Rural Development debts by transferees who would be eligible for financial assistance under the loan program involved for the type of loan being transferred. The State Director must determine and document that eligibility requirements have been satisfied.

(1) If a loan is evidenced and secured by a note and lien on real or chattel property, Form RD 1951-15, "Community Programs Assumption Agreement," will be executed by the transferee. When the terms of the loan are changed, the new repayment period may not exceed the lesser of the repayment period for a new loan of the type involved or the expected life of the facility. Interest will accrue at the rate currently reflected in Finance Office records.

(2) If the loan is evidenced and secured by a bond, procedures will be followed which are acceptable to the State Director and legally permissible under State law in the opinion of the borrower's counsel and OGC. The interest rate will be the rate currently reflected in Finance Office records. Any new repayment period provided may not exceed the lesser of the repayment period for a new loan of the type involved or the expected life of the facility.

(3) Loans being transferred and assumed may be combined when the security is the same, new terms are being provided, a new debt instrument will be issued, and the loans have the same interest rate and are for the same purpose. If applicable, ยง 1942.19(h)(11) will govern the preparation of any new debt instruments required.

(4) A loan may be made in connection with a transfer if the transferee meets all eligibility and other requirements for the kind of loan being made. Such a loan will be considered as a separate loan, and must be evidenced by a separate debt instrument. However, it is permissible to have one authorizing loan resolution or ordinance if permitted by State statutes.

(5) Any development funds remaining in a supervised bank account which are not to be refunded to Rural Development will be transferred to a supervised bank account for the transferee simultaneously with the closing of the transfer for use in completing planned development.
