
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.230 Transfer of security and assumption of loans.
######## Processing.

(f)Transfers and assumptions will be processed in accordance with the following:

(1) A transfer case file organized in accordance with RD Instruction 2033-A (available in any Rural Development office) will be established, and will contain all documents and correspondence relating to the transfer. The forms utilized for transfers and assumptions are listed in Exhibit D (available in any Rural Development office). All forms listed must be completed and included in the case file unless inappropriate for the particular situation.

(2) A letter of conditions establishing requirements to be met in connection with the transfer and assumption will be issued, and the transferee will be required to execute an Agency approved form, "Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions," prior to the closing of the transfer.

(3) Both the transferee and transferor are responsible for obtaining the legal services necessary to accomplish the transfer.

(4) Transfers will be closed in accordance with instructions provided by OGC.

(5) When the transferee is a public body and Form RD 1951-15 is not suitable, the transferee's attorney will prepare the documents necessary to effect the transfer and assumption and submit them for approval by Rural Development and OGC.

(6) Accrued interest to be entered in either Table 1 of Form RD 1951-15 or other appropriate assumption agreement is to be obtained using the status screen option in ADPS.

(7) The following forms, if utilized, will be sent immediately to the Finance Office:

(i) Form RD 1951-15 or other appropriate assumption agreement;

(ii) A conformed copy of Form RD 1965-8.

(8) If an Rural Development grant was made in conjunction with the loan being transferred, the transferee must agree in writing to assume all rights and obligations of the original grantee. See ยง 1951.215 for additional guidance on grant agreements.

(9) The transferee will obtain insurance according to requirements for the loan(s) being transferred unless the approval official requires additional insurance. When the entire Rural Development debt is being assumed and an amount has been advanced for insurance premiums or any other purposes, the transfer will not be completed until the Finance Office has charged the advance to the transferor's account.
