
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.230 Transfer of security and assumption of loans.
######## General.

(a)It is Rural Development policy to approve transfers and assumptions to transferees which will continue the original purpose of the loan in accordance with the following and specific requirements relating to eligible and ineligible borrowers set forth below:

(1) The present borrower is unable or unwilling to accomplish the objectives of the loan.

(2) The transfer will not be disadvantageous to the Government or adversely affect either Rural Development's security position or the Rural Development program in the area.

(3) Transfers to eligible applicants will receive preference over transfers to ineligible applicants if recovery to Rural Development is not less than it would be if the transfer were to an ineligible applicant.

(4) If the Rural Development debt(s) exceed the present market value of the security as determined by the State Director, the transferee will assume an amount at least equal to the present value.

(5) If the transfer and assumption is to one or more members of the borrower's organization, there must not be a loss to the government.

(6) Rural Development concurs in plans for disposition of funds in the transferor's debt service, reserve, operation and maintenance, and any other project account, including supervised bank accounts.

(7) When the property to be transferred is to be used for the same or similar purposes for which the loan was made, the transferee will execute Form RD 400-4 to continue nondiscrimination covenants and provide to Rural Development a written certification assuming all terms of the Grant Agreement executed by the transferor. All instruments of conveyance will contain the covenant referenced in ยง 1951.204 of this subpart.

(8) This subpart does not preclude the transferor from receiving equity payments when the full account of the Rural Development debt is assumed. However, equity payments will not be made on more favorable terms than those on which the balance of the Rural Development debt will be paid.

(9) Transferees must have the ability to pay the Rural Development debt as provided in the assumption agreement and the legal capacity to enter into the contract. The applicant will submit a current balanced sheet using Form RD 442-3, "Balance Sheet," and budget and cash flow information using Form RD 442-2, or similar forms. For ineligible applicants, such information may be supplemented by a credit report from an independent source or verified by an independent certified public accountant.

(10) For purposes of this subpart, transfers to eligible applicants will include mergers and consolidations. Mergers occur when two or more corporations combine in such a manner that only one remains in existence. In a consolidation, two or more corporations combine to form a new, consolidated corporation, with all of the original corporations ceasing to exist. In both mergers and consolidations, the surviving or emerging corporation takes the assets and assumes the liabilities of the corporation(s) which ceased to exist. Such transactions must be distinguished from transfers and assumptions, in which a transferor will not necessarily go out of existence and the transferee will not always take all assets or assume all liabilities of the transferor.

(11) A current appraisal report to establish the present market value of the security will be completed in accordance with ยง 1951.220(i) of this subpart when the full debt is not being assumed.

(12) There must be no lien, judgment, or similar claims of other parties against the Rural Development security being transferred unless the transferee is willing to accept such claims and the Rural Development approval official determines that they will not prevent the transferee from repaying the Rural Development debt, meeting all operating and maintenance costs, and maintaining required reserves. The written consent of any other lienholder will be obtained where required.
