
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.231 Special provisions applicable to Economic Opportunity (EO) Cooperative Loans.
######## Deceased members of Unincorporated Cooperatives.

(d)Form RD 442-24, "Operating Agreement," (now obsolete) was executed by recipients of these loans. Paragraph 10 of that form provides that in case of the death of any member, the heirs or personal representative of the deceased member shall take the deceased member's place in the association. This provision also covers sale of the decedent's interest in the association if the sale is necessary to pay debts of the estate.

(1) If the heirs or personal representative do not wish to continue membership in the association, the remaining members may be permitted to continue to operate the property if Rural Development's financial interest will not be jeopardized. The remaining members should obtain from the deceased member's estate an agreement conveying the estate's interest in the cooperative property to them. The remaining members may wish to agree to protect the estate against liability on the debt to Rural Development as well as any other debts of the cooperative.

(2) The requirement of ยง 1962.46(h) of subpart A of part 1962 will also be followed.
