
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart E - Servicing of Community and Direct Business Programs Loans and Grants
####### ยง 1951.240 State Director's additional authorizations and guidance.
######## Promote financing purposes and improve or maintain collectibility.

(a)The State Director is authorized to perform the following functions when the action is determined likely to promote the loan or grant purposes without jeopardizing collectibility of the loan or imparing the adequacy of the security; will strengthen the security; or will facilitate, improve, or maintain the orderly collection of the loan:

(1) Approve requests for permission to modify bylaws, articles of incorporation, or other rules and regulations of recipients, including changes in rate or fee schedules. Changes affecting the recipient's legal organizational structure must be approved by OGC.

(2) Consent to requests by the recipient to incur additional indebtedness, subject to applicable Rural Development instructions and covenants in the loan or grant agreement.

(3) Renew existing security instruments.

(4) Approve the extension or expansion of facilities and services.

(5) Require additional security when:

(i) Existing security is inadequate and the loan or security instruments obligate the borrower to give additional security; or

(ii) The loan is in default and additional security is acceptable in lieu of other servicing actions.

(6) Release properties being sold by the borrower from mortgages securing Rural Renewal loans if the amount of the notes and mortgages given by the purchaser to the borrower equal the present market value and are assigned and pledged to Rural Development, and any money payable to the borrower is applied as an extra payment on the Rural Renewal loan.

(7) Approve requests for rights-of-way and easements and any subordination necessary in connection with such requests.
