
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart F - Analyzing Credit Needs and Graduation of Borrowers
####### Exhibit B to Subpart F of Part 1951 - Suggested Outline for Seeking Information From Lenders on Credit Criteria for Graduation of Single Family Housing Loans

1. Is the lender interested in making loans to refinance rural housing borrowers? Yes:____; No:____.

How much credit does the lender expect to have available in the next three to four months for making such loans? $____________

In the next twelve (12) months? $____________

2. What are the loan terms? ____________

3. What is the current interest rate? ____________ &#x25A1; Variable rate. &#x25A1; Fixed rate.

If variable, how is it determined? ____________

4. Is a risk differential used in establishing interest rates charged for new customers? Yes: ____; No: ____.

5. What can a typical loan applicant be expected to pay for:

6. Is mortgage guarantee insurance required? Yes: ____; No: ____. If yes, how many years? ____. Cost? ____________.

7. Is there a minimum or maximum loan size policy? Yes: ____; No: ____.

8. Is there a minimum and maximum home value the lender will loan on? Yes: ____; No: ____. If yes, minimum: $____________; maximum: $____________.

9. Does the lender use a loan to market value ratio? ____________

10. Is there a minimum net and gross income criteria? Yes: ____; No: ____. If yes, net: $____________; gross: $____________.

11. Does the lender use a minimum loan or home value to income ratio? Yes: ____; No: ____. If yes, loan to income ratio: ____________ Value to income ratio: ____________

12. Is there a percentage of gross income a typical applicant should have available to pay housing costs? ____________

a. To pay for principal, interest, taxes and insurance (PITI)? ____%.

b. To pay for the total housing costs and other credit obligations? ____%.

13. Are there any age of home, housing type, site size, and/or geographic restriction policies? Yes: ____; No: ____.
