
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart R - Rural Development Loan Servicing
####### ยง 1951.881 Loan servicing.

(a) These regulations do not negate contractual arrangements that were previously made by the HHS, Office of Community Services (OCS), or the intermediaries operating relending programs that have already been entered into with ultimate recipients under previous regulations. Pre-existing documents control when in conflict with these regulations. The loan is governed by terms of existing legal documents of each intermediary. The RDLF/IRP intermediary is responsible for compliance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. Other than 7 CFR 1951.709(d)(1)(B)(iv), intermediaries receiving an unauthorized loan or using their revolving fund for unauthorized purposes will be serviced in accordance with 7 CFR part 1951, subpart O.

(b) Each intermediary will be monitored by Rural Development based on progress reports submitted by the intermediary, audit findings, disbursement transactions, visitations, and other contract with the intermediary as necessary.

(c) Loan servicing is intended to be preventive rather than a curative action. Prompt followup on delinquent accounts and early recognition of potential problems and pursuing a solution to them are keys to resolving many problem loan cases.

(d) Written notices on payments coming due will be prepared and sent to the intermediary by the Rural Development Finance Office approximately 15 days in advance of the due date of the payments. A copy of the notice will be sent to the Rural Development Under Secretary or designee.

(e) If the scheduled payment is not made by the intermediary within 30 days after the due date of the payment, the Finance Office will send a past due notice to the intermediary. The notice will show the late charge amount, if applicable, and the interest amount past due. The late charge amount, if applicable, and the interest past due amount will be capitalized as principal due 30 days after the due date of the monthly payment unless existing loan documents prior to this regulation state otherwise. If the loan documents state when late charge amounts or interest accruals are to be capitalized, the loan documents will prevail.

(1) A per diem amount will be shown on the late notice sent to the intermediary. The Finance Office will send this notice to the Administrator or designee 30 days after the past due notice has been sent to the intermediary and the account remains delinquent. Thereafter, further notices by Rural Development designee will be sent to the intermediary on the late payments or any further payments until the account is in a current status.

(2) The Finance Office will notify the Administrator or designee on any payments due from the delinquent intermediary. It will be the responsibility of the Administrator or designee to follow up on delinquent payments to bring the account to a current status.

(3) A copy of any correspondence or notice generated by the Administrator or designee on any delinquent loan will be sent to the Finance Office.

(4) Interest will be computed on a 365-day basis unless legal documents state otherwise.

(f) It is the responsibility of the Finance Office to maintain complete accounting records for each intermediary. The Finance Office will:

(1) Coordinate with the Administrator or designee to assure that interest and principal payments received are in accordance with the promissory notes and its companion documents, and the effective amortization schedule. If the payments received appear to be incorrect, the Finance Office will advise the Administrator or designee. The Administrator or designee will take the necessary action to clear the issue and promptly advise the Finance Office of the proper accounting procedure.

(2) Send monthly statements to the National Office reflecting all payments received to date on each borrower.

(3) Send to the Administrator or designee a monthly summary of all intermediary loans as follows:

(i) Number and amount of all loans.

(ii) Total advanced on all loans.

(iii) Total interest and principal received on the loans.

(iv) Total outstanding balance on all loans.

(4) Prepare reamortization schedules needed as a result of restructuring any loans and send to the Administrator or designee.

(5) Furnish in writing to the Administrator or designee a per diem amount on the actual interest amount due when requested by the Administrator.

(g) It is the responsibility of the Administrator or designee to:

(1) Review and analyze the semiannual report of the intermediaries and reconcile same to the annual audits.

(2) Review the annual audits of intermediaries.

(3) Review the semiannual reports of the intermediaries and take appropriate action when necessary.

(4) Follow up on delinquent intermediaries to bring the account current.

(5) Notify the Finance Office in writing when a loan is determined to be uncollectible in order for the Finance Office to make provisions for an appropriate timely entry to the loss account.

(6) Furnish to the Finance Office the necessary information to produce reamortization schedules.

(7) Provide the Finance Office a copy of any correspondence in regard to the restructuring of the loans.

(8) Review reamortization schedules, the schedule will then be forwarded to the intermediary.

(9) Confirm account balances. Payment history of loans and any other related matter will be furnished to the requesting party, (i.e. third party auditing firms) if warranted and proper. If there are discrepancies in any loan balances being confirmed, the Finance Office should be consulted before the Administrator or designee writes the requested parties.

(10) Furnish upon request by the Finance Office, the information necessary to help reconcile account balances, obtain evidence of payments made by the borrower, and any other related data necessary to keep the financial records correct and in balance.

(11) Answer Congressional and other correspondence.

(12) Review intermediary's plans, cash flow projections, balance sheets, and operating statements.
