
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart R - Rural Development Loan Servicing
####### ยง 1951.889 Transfer and assumption.

(a) All transfers and assumptions must be approved in advance in writing by Rural Development. Such transfers and assumptions must be to an eligible intermediary.

(b) Available transfer and assumption options to eligible intermediaries include the following:

(1) The total indebtedness may be transferred to another eligible intermediary on the same terms.

(2) The total indebtedness may be transferred to another eligible intermediary on different terms not to exceed those terms for which an initial loan can be made to an organization that would have been eligible originally.

(3) Less than total indebtedness may be transferred to another eligible intermediary on the same terms.

(4) Less than total indebtedness may be transferred to another eligible intermediary on different terms.

(c) The transferor will prepare the transfer document for Rural Development's review prior to the transfer and assumption.

(d) The transferee will provide Rural Development with a copy of its latest financial statement and a copy of its annual financial statement for the past 3 years if available; its Federal Tax Identification number; organizational charter; minutes from the Board of Directors authorizing the transaction; certification of good standing from the Secretary of State or whatever regulatory agency oversees nonprofit corporations for that State or Commonwealth where the entity is headquartered; and any other information that Rural Development deems necessary for its review.

(e) The assumption agreement will contain the Rural Development case nunber of the transferor and transferee.

(f) When the transferee makes a cash downpayment in connection with the transfer and assumption, any proceeds received by the transferor will be credited on the transferor's loan debt in inverse order of maturity.

(g) The Administrator or designee will approve or decline all transfers and assumptions.
