
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1951 - SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS
###### Subpart R - Rural Development Loan Servicing
####### ยง 1951.883 Reporting requirements.

(a) Intermediaries are to provide Rural Development with reports as required in their respective loan agreements, applicable statutes and as required by Rural Development. The report shall include the following:

(1) An annual audit; dates of audit report period need not necessarily coincide with other reports on the RDLF/IRP. Audits shall be due 90 days following the audit period. Audits must cover all of the intermediary's activities. Audits will be performed by an independent certified public accountant or by an independent public accountant licensed and certified on or before December 31, 1970, by a regulatory authority of a State or other political subdivision of the United States. An acceptable audit will be performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and include such tests of the accounting records as the auditor considers necessary in order to express an opinion on the financial condition of the intermediary. Rural Development does not require an unqualified audit opinion as a result of the audit. Compilations or reviews do not satisfy the audit requirement.

(2) Quarterly or semiannual reports (due 30 days after the end of the period).

(i) Reports will be required quarterly during the first year after loan closing and, if all loan funds are not utilized during the first year, quarterly reports will be continued until at least 90 percent of the Agency IRP loan funds have been advanced to ultimate recipients. Thereafter, reports will be required semiannually. Also, the Agency may require quarterly reports if the intermediary becomes delinquent in repayment of its loan or otherwise fails to fully comply with the provisions of its work plan or Loan Agreement, or the Agency determines that the intermediary's IRP revolving fund is not adequately protected by the current sound worth and paying capacity of the ultimate recipients.

(ii) These reports shall contain only information on the IRP revolving loan fund, or if other funds are included, the IRP loan program portion shall be segregated from the others; and in the case where the intermediary has more than one IRP revolving fund from the Agency a separate report shall be made for each of the IRP revolving funds.

(iii) The reports will include, on a form provided by the Agency, information on the intermediary's lending activity, income and expenses, financial condition, and a summary of names and characteristics of the ultimate recipients the intermediary has financed.

(3) An annual report on the extent to which increased employment income and ownership opportunities are provided to low-income persons, farm families, and displaced farm families for each loan made by such intermediary.

(4) Proposed budget for the following year.

(5) Other reports as Rural Development may require from time to time.

(b) Intermediaries shall report to Rural Development whenever an ultimate recipient is more than 90 days in arrears in the repayment of principal or interest.
