
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.4 Redelegation of authority.

Authorities will be redelegated to the extent possible, consistent with program requirements and available resources.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 1900.6(c) of this chapter, any authority in this subpart which is specifically delegated to the Administrator or to an Deputy Administrator may only be delegated to a State Director. The State Director cannot redelegate such authority.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the State Director is authorized to redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the State Director in this subpart to a Program Chief, Program Specialist or Property Management Specialist on the State Office staff; except the authority to approve or disapprove foreclosure as outlined in ยง 1955.115(a)(2) of this subpart may not be redelegated. However, a duly-designated Acting State Director may approve or disapprove foreclosure.

(c) The District Director is authorized to redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the District Director in this subpart to an Assistant District Director or District Loan Specialist determined by the District Director to be qualified; except the authority to approve or disapprove foreclosure as outlined in ยง 1955.15(a)(1) of this subpart may not be redelegated. However, a duly designated Acting District Director may approve or disapprove foreclosure. Authority of District Directors in this subpart applies to Area Loan Specialists in Alaska and the Director for the Western Pacific Territories.

(d) The County Supervisor is authorized to redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the County Supervisor in this subpart to an Assistant County Supervisor, GS-7, or above, determined by the County Supervisor to be qualified. Authority of County Supervisors in this subpart applies to Area Loan Specialists in Alaska and Area Supervisors in the Western Pacific Territories and American Samoa.
