
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.10 Voluntary conveyance of real property by the borrower to the Government.
######## Offer of voluntary conveyance.

(d)An offer of voluntary conveyance will consist of the following:

(1) Form RD 1955-1, "Offer to Convey Security."

(2) Warranty deed, or other deed approved by OGC to comply with State Laws. The deed will not be recorded until it is determined the voluntary conveyance will be accepted. At the time of the offer, the borrowers will be informed that the conveyance will not be accepted until the property has been appraised and a lien search has been obtained. If the voluntary conveyance is not accepted, the deed and Form RD 1955-1, properly executed, will be returned to the borrower along with a memorandum stating the reason(s) for nonacceptance.

(3) A current financial statement containing information similar to that required to complete Forms RD 410-1, "Application for Rural Development Services" or RD 442-3, "Balance Sheet," and information on present income and potential earning ability. Exception for SFH loans: Rural Development requires a budget and/or financial statement and, if necessary to discover suspected undisclosed assets, a search of public records, only when the value of the security property may be less than the debt.

(4) For organization borrowers, a duly-adopted Resolution by the governing body authorizing the conveyance and certified by the attesting official with the corporate seal affixed. The Resolution will indicate which officials are authorized to execute the offer to convey and the deed on behalf of the borrower. If shareholder approval is necessary, the Resolution will specifically recite that shareholder approval has been obtained.

(5) If water rights, mineral rights, development rights, or other use rights are not fully covered in the deed, the advice of OGC will be obtained and appropriate documents to transfer rights to the Government will be obtained before the voluntary conveyance is accepted. The documents will be recorded, if necessary, in connection with closing the conveyance.

(6) If property is under lease, an assignment of the lease to the Government will be obtained with the effective date being the date the voluntary conveyance is closed. If an oral lease is in force, it will be reduced to writing and assigned to the Government.

(7) The borrower may be required to provide a title insurance policy or a final title opinion from a designated attorney when the State Director determines it is necessary to protect the Government's interest. Such title insurance policy or final title opinion will show title vested to the Government subject only to exceptions and liens approved by the County Supervisor.

(8) Farmer program loan borrowers who voluntarily convey after receiving the appropriate loan servicing notice(s) contained in the attachments of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter, must properly complete and return the acknowledgement form sent with the notice.

(9) For MFH loans, assignment of Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contracts will be obtained. Rental Assistance will be retained until the State Director is advised by OGC that the Agency has title to the property. After a voluntary conveyance, the Agency may transfer Rental Assistance in accordance with 7 CFR part 3560, subpart F.
