
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.9 Requirements for voluntary conveyance of real property located within a federally recognized Indian reservation owned by a Native American borrower-owner.

(a) The borrower-owner is a member of the tribe that has jurisdiction over the reservation in which the real property is located. An Indian tribe may also meet the borrower-owner criterion if it is indebted for Farm Credit Programs loans.

(b) A voluntary conveyance will be accepted only after all preacquisition primary and preservation servicing actions have been considered in accordance with subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter.

(c) When all servicing actions have been considered under subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter and a positive outcome cannot be achieved, the following additional actions are to be taken:

(1) The county official will notify the Native American borrower-owner and the tribe by certified mail, return receipt requested, and by regular mail if the certified mail is not received, that:

(i) The borrower-owner may convey the real estate security to FSA and FSA will consider acceptance of the property into inventory in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) The borrower-owner must inform FSA within 60 days from receipt of this notice of the borrower and owner's decision to deed the property to FSA;

(iii) The borrower-owner has the opportunity to consult with the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the reservation in which the real property is located, or counsel, to determine if State or tribal law provides rights and protections that are more beneficial than those provided the borrower-owner under Agency regulations;

(2) If the borrower-owner does not voluntarily deed the property to FSA, not later than 30 days before the foreclosure sale, FSA will provide the Native American borrower-owner with the following options:

(i) The Native American borrower-owner may require FSA to assign the loan and security instruments to the Secretary of the Interior. If the Secretary of the Interior agrees to such an assignment, FSA will be released from all further responsibility for collection of any amounts with regard to the loans secured by the real property.

(ii) The Native American borrower-owner may require FSA to complete a transfer and assumption of the loan to the tribe having jurisdiction over the reservation in which the real property is located if the tribe agrees to the assumption. If the tribe assumes the loans, the following actions shall occur:

(A) FSA shall not foreclose the loan because of any default that occurred before the date of the assumption.

(B) The assumed loan shall be for the lesser of the outstanding principal and interest of the loan or the fair market value of the property as determined by an appraisal.

(C) The assumed loan shall be treated as though it is a regular Indian Land Acquisition Loan made in accordance with subpart N of part 1823 of this chapter.

(3) If a Native American borrower-owner does not voluntarily convey the real property to FSA, not less than 30 days before a foreclosure sale of the property, FSA will provide written notice to the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the reservation in which the real property is located of the following:

(i) The sale;

(ii) The fair market value of the property; and

(iii) The ability of the Native American borrower-owner to require the assignment of the loan and security instruments either to the Secretary of the Interior or the tribe (and the consequences of either action) as provided in ยง 1955.9(c)(2).

(4) FSA will accept the offer of voluntary conveyance of the property unless a hazardous substance, as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, is located on the property which will require FSA to take remedial action to protect human health or the environment if the property is taken into inventory. In this case, a voluntary conveyance will be accepted only if FSA determines that it is in the best interests of the Government to acquire title to the property.

(d) When determining whether to accept a voluntary conveyance of a Native American borrower-owner's real property, the county official must consider:

(1) The cost of cleaning or mitigating the effects if a hazardous substance is found on the property. A deduction equal to the amount of the cost of a hazardous waste clean-up will be made to the fair market value of the property to determine if it is in the best interest of the Government to accept title to the property. FSA will accept the property if clear title can be obtained and if the value of the property after removal of hazardous substances exceeds the cost of hazardous waste clean-up.

(2) If the property is located within the boundaries of a federally recognized Indian reservation, and is owned by a member of the tribe with jurisdiction over the reservation, FSA will credit the Native American borrower-owner's account based on the fair market value of the property or the FSA debt against the property, whichever is greater.
