
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### § 1955.10 Voluntary conveyance of real property by the borrower to the Government.

Voluntary conveyance is a method of liquidation by which title to security is transferred to the Government. Rural Development will not make a demand on a borrower to voluntarily convey. If there is equity in the property. Rural Development should advise the borrower, in writing, that there is equity in the property before accepting an offer to voluntarily convey. If Rural Development receives an offer of voluntary conveyance, acceptance should only be considered when the Government will likely receive a recovery on its investment. In cases where there are outstanding liens, a full assessment should be made of the debts against the property compared to the current market value. Rural Development should refuse the voluntary conveyance, if the Rural Development lien has neither present nor prospective value or recovery of the value would be unlikely or uneconomical. Instead, for loans to individuals, Rural Development should release its lien as valueless in accordance with § 1965.25(d) of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter or § 1965.118(c) of subpart C of this chapter, as appropriate. For non-FP borrowers, a voluntary conveyance should only be considered after all available servicing actions outlined in the respective servicing regulations have been used or considered and it is determined that the borrower will not be successful. For FP borrowers, if the borrower has not received exhibit A with attachments 1 and 2 of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter, a voluntary conveyance should be accepted only after the borrower has been sent exhibit A with attachments 1 and 2 of subpart S of 1951 of this chapter; all available servicing actions outlined in the respective program servicing regulations have been used or considered; and it will be in the Government's best financial interest to accept the FP voluntary conveyance. Exhibit G of this subpart will be used to determine whether or not to accept an FP voluntary conveyance. In determining if the acceptance of the FP voluntary conveyance is in the best financial interest of the Government, the County Supervisor will determine if the borrower has exhausted all possibilities of restructuring the loan to where a feasible plan of operation may be developed, the borrower has acted in good faith in trying to service the debt and Rural Development may recover its investment in return for the acceptance of the voluntary conveyance. In addition, prior to acceptance of a voluntary conveyance of farm real property that collateralizes an FP loan, the County Supervisor will remind the borrower-owner of possible deed restrictions and easement that may be placed on the property in the event the property contains wetlands, floodplains, historical sites and/or other federally protected environmental resources as set forth in part 1970 of this chapter and § 1955.137 of this part. When it is determined that all conditions of § 1951.558(b) of subpart L of part 1951 of this chapter have been met, loans for unauthorized assistance will be treated as authorized loans and exhibit A with attachments 1 and 2 of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter will be sent prior to accepting a voluntary conveyance. Those borrowers who are indebted for nonprogram (NP) loans who wish to voluntarily convey property will not be sent exhibit A with attachments 1 and 2 of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter. For Farmer Program borrowers who have received exhibit A with attachments 1 and 2 of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter, a voluntary conveyance should only be accepted when it is determined to be in the Government's best financial interest. Rejection of an offer of voluntary conveyance made before or after acceleration from an FP borrower is appealable. For borrowers having both FP and non-FP loans secured by a farm tract, a voluntary conveyance should be handled as outlined above for non-FP loans secured by farm tracts, except that the applicable servicing option for the FP and non-FP loans should be considered separately. This separation of servicing options may permit a borrower to retain the nonfarm tract. For newly constructed SFH properties with major construction defects, see subpart F of part 1924 of this chapter.
