
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.10 Voluntary conveyance of real property by the borrower to the Government.
######## Junior liens.

(2)The borrower must satisfy junior liens on the property (except Rural Development liens) and pay real estate taxes or assessments which are or will become a lien on the property. However, if the borrower is unable or unwilling to do so, settlement of the liens may be made by Rural Development if settlement would be in the best interest of the Government, considering all factors such as length of time required to foreclose, vandalism or other deterioration of the property which might occur, and effect on management of a MFH project and its tenants. An Rural Development official will contact junior lienholders, negotiate the most favorable settlement possible, and determine whether it is in the Government's best interest to settle the junior liens and accept the voluntary coveyance.

(i) For loans to individuals, the approval official is authorized to settle junior liens in the smallest amount possible, but not to exceed an aggregate amount of $1,000 in each SFH case or $5,000 for other type loans. For junior liens in greater amounts when the approval official is the County Supervisor or District Director, prior authorization must be obtained from the State Director.

(ii) For loans to organizations, the State Director will determine whether or not junior liens will be settled and voluntary conveyance accepted.
