
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.10 Voluntary conveyance of real property by the borrower to the Government.
######## Appraisal of property.

(e)After an offer of voluntary conveyance, but before acceptance by Rural Development, an appraisal of the property will be made to establish the current market value of the property. If a qualified Rural Development appraiser is not available to appraise property securing a loan other than MFH, the State Director may obtain an appraisal from a qualified appraiser outside Rural Development in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office). For property securing MFH, prior authorization must be obtained by the Assistant Administrator, Housing, to secure an appraisal from a source outside Rural Development. For property securing FP loan(s), the contract appraiser must complete the appraisal in accordance with ยง 761.7 of this title for FP property, or subpart C of part 1922 for Single Family Housing property. Also, the appraiser must meet at least one of the following qualifications:

(1) Certification by a National or State Appraisal Society.

(2) If a certified appraiser is not available, the appraiser may be one who meets the criteria for certification in a National or State Appraisal Society.

(3) The appraiser has recent, relevant documented appraisal experience or training, or other factors clearly establishing the appraiser's qualifications.
