
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### § 1955.10 Voluntary conveyance of real property by the borrower to the Government.
######## SFH loans.

(1)Rural Development does not solicit or encourage conveyance of SFH security property to the Government and will consider a borrower's offer to convey by deed in lieu of foreclosure only after the debt is accelerated and when it is in the Government's interest. Upon receipt of an offer to convey, the servicing official will remind the borrower of provisions for voluntary liquidation under 7 CFR part 3550,and the consequences of a conveyance by deed in lieu of foreclosure as follows: All costs related to the conveyance which Rural Development pays will be added to the debt; a credit equal to the market value of the property, as determined by Rural Development, less prior liens, will be applied to the debt; and if the credit does not satisfy the debt, the borrower will not automatically be released of liability. The unsatisfied debt, after acceleration under § 1955.10(h)(5) of this subpart, may be settled according to subpart B of part 1956 of this chapter; however, a deficiency judgment will not be pursued when the borrower was granted a moratorium if the borrower faithfully tried to meet loan obligations. The conveyance is processed as follows:

(i) Before accepting the offer, the County Supervisor will transmit the deed to a closing agent requesting a title search covering the period of time since the latest title opinion in the case file. The same agent who closed the loan should be used, if possible; otherwise one will be selected from the approved list of closing agents, taking care that cases are distributed fairly among approved agents. The closing agent may be instructed that the County Supervisor considers the voluntary conveyance offer conditionally approved, and the closing agent may record the deed after the title search if there are no liens against the property other than:

(A) The Rural Development lien(s);

(B) Prior liens when Rural Development has advised the closing agent that title will be taken subject to the prior lien(s) or has told the closing agent that the prior lien(s) will be handled in accordance with § 1955.10(c)(1) of this subpart; and/or

(C) Real estate taxes and/or assessments which must be paid when title to the property is transferred.

(ii) If junior liens are discovered, the closing agent will be requested to provide Rural Development with the lienholder's name, amount of lien, date recorded, and the recording information (recording office, book and page), return the unrecorded deed to Rural Development, and await further instructions from Rural Development. In such cases, the County Supervisor will proceed in accordance with § 1955.10(c)(2) of this subpart. If agreement has been reached with the lienholder(s) for settling the junior lien(s) in order to accept the conveyance, the deed will be returned to the closing agent for a title update and recording.

(iii) The closing agent will be requested to provide a certification of title to Rural Development after recordation of the deed. A certification of title in a statement that fee title is vested in the Government subject only to the Rural Development lien(s) and prior liens previously approved by Rural Development. After receipt of the certification of title, the County Supervisor will notify the borrower that the conveyance has been accepted in accordance with § 1955.10(g) of this subpart.
