
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.10 Voluntary conveyance of real property by the borrower to the Government.
######## Actions to be taken after closing conveyance.

(h)(1) When the Rural Development account is satisfied, the note(s) will be stamped "Satisfied by Surrender of Security and Borrower Released from Liability," and the statement must be signed by the servicing official.

(2) When the Rural Development account is not satisfied and the borrower is not released from liability, the note(s) will be retained by Rural Development.

(3) The servicing official will release the lien(s) of record, indicating that the debt was satisfied by surrender of security or that the lien is released but the debt not satisfied, whichever is applicable. If the lien is to be released but the debt not satisfied, OGC will provide the type of instrument required to comply with applicable State laws.

(4) After release of the lien(s), the servicing official will return the following to the borrower:

(i) If borrower is released from liability, the satisfied note(s) and a copy of Form RD 1955-1 showing acceptance by the Government; or

(ii) If borrower is not released from liability, a copy of Form RD 1955-1 showing acceptance by the Government.

(5) When the Rural Development account is not satisfied and the borrower not released from liability, the account balance, after deducting the "as is" market value and prior liens, if any, will be accelerated utilizing exhibit F of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office).

(6) For MFH loans, the State Director will cancel any interest credit and suspend any rental assistance. These actions will be accomplished by notifying the Finance Office unit which handles MFH accounts. In the interm the tenants will continue rental payments in accordance with their lease. Tenants will be informed of the pending liquidation action and the possible consequences of the action. If the project is to be removed from the Rural Development program, a minimum of 180 days' notice to the tenants is required. Letters of Priority Entitlement must be made available to any tenants that will be displaced.

(7) Actions outlined in ยง 1955.18 of this subpart will be taken, as applicable.
