
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.13 Acquisition of property by exercise of Government redemption rights.

When the Government did not protect its interest in security property in a foreclosure by another lienholder, and if the Government has redemption rights, the State Director will determine whether to redeem the property. This determination will be based on all pertinent factors including the value of the property after the sale, and costs which may be incurred in acquiring and reselling the property. For Farmer Program loans, the County Supervisor will document the determination on exhibit G of this subpart. The decision must be made far enough in advance of expiration of the redemption period to permit exercise of the Government's rights. If the property is to be redeemed, complete information documenting the basis for not acquiring the property at the sale and factors which justify redemption of the property will be included in the case file. The assistance of OGC will be obtained in effecting the redemption. If the State Director decides not to redeem the property, the Government's right of redemption under Federal law (28 U.S.C. 2410) may be waived without consideration. If a State law right of redemption exists and may be sold, it will not be disposed of for less than its value.
