
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.15 Foreclosure by the Government of loans secured by real estate.
######## Prior lien(s).

(1)If there is a prior lien, all foreclosure alternatives should be explored including whether Rural Development will give the prior lienholder the opportunity to foreclose; join in the action if the prior lienholder wishes to foreclose; or foreclose the Rural Development loan(s), either settling the prior lien or foreclosing subject to it. The provisions of ยง 1965.11(c) of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter must be followed for loans serviced under subpart A of part 1965. The assistance of OGC should be obtained in weighing the alternatives, with the objective being to pursue the course which will result in the greatest net recovery by the Government. After it is decided which option will be most advantageous to the Government, the approval official, either directly or through a designee, will contact the prior lienholder to outline Rural Development's position. If State laws affect this action, a State Supplement will be issued with the advice of OGC to establish the procedure to be followed. For real property located within the confines of a federally recognized Indian reservation owned by a Native American borrower-owner, an analysis of whether Rural Development should acquire title must include facts which demonstrate the fair market value after considering the cost of clean-up of hazardous substances on the property.
