
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.15 Foreclosure by the Government of loans secured by real estate.
######## Acceleration of account.

(2)Subject to paragraphs (d)(2)(i), (d)(2)(ii), and (d)(2)(iii) of this section, the account will be accelerated using a notice substantially similar to exhibits B, C, D, or E of this subpart, or for multi-family housing, Guide Letters 1955-A-1 or 1955-A-2 (available in any Rural Development Office), as appropriate, to be signed by the official who approved the foreclosure. The accounts of borrowers with pending Chapter 12 and 13 cases which have not been discharged will be accelerated in accordance with instructions from OGC. Upon OGC approval, accounts of these borrowers may be accelerated using a notice substantially similar to exhibit D of this subpart. Loans secured by chattels must be accelerated at the same time as loans secured by real estate in accordance with ยง 1965.26 (c) of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter. The notice will be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to each obligor individually, addressed to the last known address. If different from the property address and/or the address the Finance Office uses, a copy of the notice will also be mailed to the property address and the address currently used by the Finance Office. (In chattel liquidation cases which have been referred for civil action under subpart A of part 1962 of this chapter, the Finance Office will be sent a copy of exhibits D, E, or E-1 (available in any Rural Development office) as applicable. County Office and Finance Office loan records will be adjusted to mature the entire debt in such cases). If a signed receipt for at least one of these acceleration notices sent by certified mail is received, no further notice is required. If no receipt is received, a copy of the acceleration notice will be sent by regular mail to each address to which the certified notices were sent. This type mailing will be documented in the file. A State Supplement may be issued if OGC advises different or additional language or format is required to comply with State laws or if notice and mailing instructions are different from that outlined in this paragraph. A conformed copy of the acceleration notice will be forwarded to the servicing official. Farmer Program appeals will be concluded before acceleration. For MFH loans, a copy of the acceleration letter will also be forwarded to the National Office, ATTN: MFH Servicing and Property Management Division, for monitoring purposes. Accounts may be accelerated as follows:

(i) Where monetary default is involved, the account may be accelerated immediately after approval of foreclosure.
