
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.15 Foreclosure by the Government of loans secured by real estate.
######## not

(ii) Where monetary default isinvolved, the account will not be accelerated until the concurrence of OGC is obtained.

(iii) If borrower obtained the loan while a civilian, entered military service after the loan was closed, the Rural Development has not obtained a waiver of rights under the Soldiers and Sailors Relief Act, the account will not be accelerated until OGC has reviewed the case and given instructions.

(iv) If the decision is made to liquidate the farm loan(s) of a borrower who also has a SFH loan(s), and the dwelling was used as security for the farm loan(s) it will not be necessary to meet the requirements of 7 CFR part 3550 prior to accelerating the account. Except that, if the borrower is in default on his/her farm loan(s), the SFH account must have been considered for interest credit and/or moratorium at the time servicing options are being considered for the FP loan(s) prior to acceleration. If it is later determined the FP loan(s) are to receive additional servicing in lieu of liquidation, the RH loan will be reinstated simultaneously with the FP servicing actions and may be reamortized in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550. Accounts of a borrower who has both Farmer Program and SFH loan(s) may be accelerated as follows:

(A) When the borrower's dwelling is financed with an SFH loan(s) is secured by and located on the same farm real estate as the Farmer Program loan(s) (dwelling located on the farm), the SFH loan(s) will be serviced in accordance with ยง 1965.26(c)(1) of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter.

(B) When the borrower's dwelling is financed with an SFH loan(s) and is located on a nonfarm tract which also serves as additional security for the Farmer Program loan(s), the loans(s) will be serviced in accordance with ยง 1965.26 (c)(2) of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter.

(C) When the borrower's dwelling is financed with an SFH loan(s) and is on a non-farm tract which does not serve as additional security for the Farmer Program loan(s), it will NOT be accelerated simultaneously with sending out attachments 5 and 6, or 5-A and 6-A, or attachment 9 and 10, or 9-A and 10-A, of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter, as applicable, unless it is subject to liquidation based on provisions of 7 CFR part 3550, taking into consideration the prospects for success that may evolve when the borrower's livelihood is from a source other than the farming operation. If the SFH loan is in default and subject to liquidation based on provisions of 7 CFR part 3550, the SFH loan(s) must be accelerated at the same time the borrower is sent attachment 5 and 6, or 5-A and 6-A, or attachments 9 and 10, or 9-A and 10-A, to exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter, as applicable. For those borrowers who are in non-monetary default on their Farmer Programs loans and fail to return attachment 4 of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter, the Farmer Programs loans and SFH loans will be accelerated at the same time. If the borrower appeals, one appeal hearing and one review will be held for both adverse actions.

(D) If a borrower's FP loan(s) were accelerated prior to May 7, 1987, and the SFH loan(s) is not accelerated, the SFH loan will be accelerated at the same time the borrower is sent attachments 5 and 6, or 5-A and 6-A, or attachments 7 and 8 to exhibit A of subpart S of 1951 of this chapter, as applicable, unless the requirements of ยง 1965.26 of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter are met or the liquidation of the SFH loan is based on provisions of 7 CFR part 3550. If the borrower is sent attachments 5 and 6, or 5-A and 6-A to exhibit A of subpart S of 1951 of this chapter, as applicable, and requests an appeal, one hearing and one review will be held for both the adverse action on the FP loan restructuring request and SFH acceleration notices. If the borrower is sent attachments 7 and 8 to exhibit A of subpart S of 1951 of this chapter, there are no further appeals on the FP loans; but, the borrower is entitled to a hearing and a review on the SFH acceleration notice.

(v) For MFH loans, the acceleration notice will advise the borrower of all applicable prepayment requirements, in accordance with 7 CFR part 3560, subpart N. The requirements include the application of restrictive-use provisions to loans made on or after December 21, 1979, prepaid in response to acceleration notices and all tenant and agency notifications. The acceleration notice will also remind borrowers that rent levels cannot be raised during the acceleration without Rural Development approval, even after subsidies are canceled or suspended. Tenants are to be notified of the status of the project and of possible consequences of these actions. If the borrower wishes to prepay the project in response to the acceleration and Rural Development makes a determination that the housing is no longer needed, a minimum of 180 days' notice to tenants is required before the project can be removed from the Rural Development program. Letters of Priority Entitlement must be made available.
