
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.15 Foreclosure by the Government of loans secured by real estate.
######## All other accelerations.

(ii)After the account is accelerated, loan servicing ceases. For example, for SFH loans, the renewal or granting of interest credit or a moratorium is not authorized. The servicing official will accept no payment for less than the unpaid loan balance, unless State law requires that foreclosure be withdrawn if the account is brought current and a State supplement is issued to specify this requirement. If payments are mistakenly accepted and credited to the borrower's account, no waiver or prejudice to any rights which the United States may have for breach of any promissory note or covenants in the real estate instruments will result. Disposition of such payments will be made after consultation with OGC. The servicing official will notify the approval official of any offer received from the borrower. This includes a request by the borrower for an extension of time to accomplish voluntary liquidation or a written proposal to cure the default(s). The receipt of a payment with no proposal to cure the defaults is not considered a viable offer, and such payments will be returned to the borrower. The approval official will decide whether an offer from a borrower will be accepted and servicing of the loan reinstated or whether foreclosure will be delayed to give the borrower additional time to voluntarily liquidate as authorized in servicing regulations for the type loan involved. If an offer is received after the case has been referred to OGC, the approval official will consult OGC before accepting or rejecting the offer. The denial of an offer to stop foreclosure is not appealable. In all cases, the approval official will notify the servicing official of the decision made. For MFH loans, the National Office will be notified when foreclosure is withdrawn. When an account is reinstated under this section, the servicing official will grant or reinstate assistance for which the borrower qualifies, such as interest credit on an SFH loan. When granting interest credit in such a case:

(A) If an interest credit agreement expired after the account was accelerated, the effective date will be the date the previous agreement expired.

(B) If an interest credit agreement was not in effect when the account was accelerated, the effective date will be the date foreclosure action was withdrawn.

(C) For MFH loans with rental assistance, after acceleration and after any appeal or review has been concluded, rental assistance will be suspended if foreclosure is to continue. If the account is reinstated, the rental assistance will be reinstated retroactively to the date of suspension. In the interim, the tenants will continue rental payments in accordance with their leases, and all rental rates and lease renewals and provisions will be continued as if acceleration had not taken place.
