
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.15 Foreclosure by the Government of loans secured by real estate.
######## Referral of case.

(e)If the borrower fails to satisfy the account during the period of time specified in the acceleration notice, and no appeal is pending, the foreclosure process will continue:

(1) If the District Director is the approval official, he/she will forward the case file with all pertinent documents and information concerning the foreclosure action and appeal, if any, to the State Director for completion of the foreclosure.

(2) If the State Director is the approval official, or in cases referred by the District Director under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the State Director will forward to OGC the case file and all documents needed by OGC to process the foreclosure. A State Supplement will be issued, with the advice and assistanced of OGC, to reflect the make-up of the foreclosure docket. Since foreclosure processing varies widely from State to State, each State Supplement will be explicit in outlining step-by-step procedures. At the time indicated by OGC in the foreclosure instructions, Form RD 1951-6, "Borrower Account Description Flag," will be processed in accordance with the FMI. After referral to OGC, further actions will be in accordance with OGC's instructions for completion of the foreclosure. If prior approval of the Administrator is obtained, nonjudicial foreclosure for monetary default may be handled as outlined in a State Supplement approved by OGC without referral to OGC before foreclosure.
