
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.15 Foreclosure by the Government of loans secured by real estate.
######## Amount of Government's bid.

(6)Except for FP loans and as modified by paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section, the Government's bid will be the amount of Rural Development's gross investment or the market value of the security, whichever is less. For real property located within the confines of a federally recognized Indian reservation and which is owned by an Rural Development borrower who is a member of the tribe with jurisdiction over the reservation, the Government's bid will be the greater of the fair market value or the Rural Development debt against the property, unless Rural Development determines that, because of the presence of hazardous substances on the property, it is not in the best interest of the Government to bid such amount, in which case there may be a deduction from the bid for the costs for hazardous material assessment and/or mitigation. For FP loans, except as modified by paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section, the Government's bid will be the amount of Rural Development's gross investment or the amount determined by use of exhibit G-1 of this subpart, whichever is less. When the foreclosure sale is imminent, the State Director must request the servicing official to submit a current appraisal (in existing condition) as a basis for determining the Government's bid. Except for MFH properties, if an Rural Development appraiser is not available, the State Director may authorize an appraisal to be obtained by contract from a source outside Rural Development in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office). For MFH properties, prior approval of the Assistant Administrator, Housing, is necessary to procure an outside appraisal.
