
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart A - Liquidation of Loans Secured by Real Estate and Acquisition of Real and Chattel Property
####### ยง 1955.20 Acquisition of chattel property.
######## Bidding at sale.

(f)(1) The servicing official is authorized to bid at sales described in paragraph (a) of this section. Ordinarily, only one bid will be made on items of chattel security unless the State Director authorizes incremental bidding. Bids will be made only when no other party bids or when it appears bidding will stop and the property will be sold for less than the amount of the Government's authorized bid. When the State Director determines attendance of an Rural Development employee might pose physical danger, a written bid may be submitted to the party holding the sale. The bid(s) will be the lesser of:

(i) The market value of the item(s) less the estimated costs involved in the acquisition, care, and sale of the item(s) of security; or

(ii) The unpaid balance of the borrower's secured Rural Development debt plus prior liens, if any.

(2) Bids will not be made in the following situations unless authorized by the State Director:

(i) When chattel property under prior lien has a market value which is not significantly more than the amount owed the prior lienholder. If Rural Development holds a junior lien on several items of chattel property, advice should be obtained from the State Director on bidding.

(ii) After sufficient chattel property has been bid in by Rural Development to satisfy the Rural Development debt; prior liens, and cost of the sale.

(iii) When the sale is being conducted by a lienholder junior to Rural Development.

(iv) At a private sale.

(v) When the sale is being conducted under the terms of Form RD 455-3, "Agreement for Sale by Borrower (Chattels and/or Real Estate)".
