
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### ยง 1955.55 Taking abandoned real or chattel property into custody and related actions.
######## Determination of abandonment.

(a)(Multi-family housing type loans will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 3560, subpart J.) When it appears a borrower has abandoned security property, the servicing official shall make a diligent attempt to locate the borrower to determine what the borrower's intentions are concerning the property. This includes making inquiries of neighbors, checking with the Postal Service, utility companies, employer(s), if known, and schools, if the borrower has children, to see if the borrower's whereabouts can be determined and an address obtained. A State supplement may be issued if necessary to further define "abandonment" based on State law. If the borrower is not occupying or is not in possession of the property but has it listed for sale with a real estate broker or has made other arrangements for its care or sale, it will not be considered abandoned so long as it is adequately secured and maintained. Except for borrowers with Farmers Program loans, if the borrower has made no effort to sell the property and can be located, an opportunity to voluntarily convey the property to the Government will be offered the borrower in accordance with ยง 1955.10 of Subpart A of this part. In farmer program cases, borrowers must receive Attachments 1 and 2 of Exhibit A of Subpart S of Part 1951 of this chapter and any appeal must be concluded before any adverse action can be taken. The County Supervisor will send these forms to the borrower's last known address as soon as it is determined that the borrower has abandoned security property.
