
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### § 1955.55 Taking abandoned real or chattel property into custody and related actions.
######## Taking security property into Rural Development custody.

(b)When security property is determined to be abandoned, the running record in the borrower's file will be fully documented with the facts substantiating the determination of abandonment, and the servicing official shall proceed as follows without delay:

(1) For loans to individuals (except those with Farmer Program loans), if there are no prior liens, or if a prior lienholder will not take the measures necessary to protect the property, the County Supervisor shall take custody of the property, and a problem case report will be prepared recommending foreclosure in accordance with § 1955.15 of Subpart A of this part, unless the borrower can be located and voluntary liquidation accomplished. Farmer Program loan borrowers will be sent the forms listed in paragraph (a) of this section and the provisions of § 1965.26 of Subpart A of Part 1965 of this chapter will be followed.

(2) For MFH loans, if there are no prior liens, the District Director will immediately notify the State Director, who will request guidance from OGC and may also request advice from the National Office. The State Director, with the advice of OGC, will advise the borrower by writing a letter, certified mail, return receipt requested, at the address currently used by Finance Office, outlining proposed actions by Rural Development to secure, maintain, and operate the project.

(i) If the unpaid loan balance plus recoverable costs do not exceed the State Director's loan approval authority, the State Director will authorize the District Director to take custody of the property, make emergency repairs if necessary to protect the Government's interest, and will advise how the property is to be managed in accordance with 7 CFR part 3560.

(ii) If the unpaid loan balance plus recoverable costs exceeds the State Director's loan approval authority, the State Director will refer the case to the National Office for advice on emergency actions to be taken. The docket will be forwarded to the National Office with detailed recommendations for immediate review and authorization for further action, if requested by the MFH staff.

(iii) Costs incurred in connection with procurement of such things as management services will be handled in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office).

(iv) The District Director will prepare a problem case report to initiate foreclosure in accordance with § 1955.15 of Subpart A of this part and submit the report to the State Director along with a proposed plan for managing the project while liquidation is pending.

(3) For organization loans other than MFH, if there are no prior liens, the District Director will immediately notify the State Director that the property has been abandoned and recommend action which should be taken to protect the Government's interest. After obtaining the advice of OGC and the appropriate staff in the National Office, the State Director may authorize the District Director to take custody of the property and give instructions for immediate actions to be taken as necessary. The District Director will prepare a Report on Servicing Action (Exhibit A of Subpart E of Part 1951 of this chapter) recommending that foreclosure be initiated in accordance with § 1955.15 of Subpart A of this part and submit the report to the State Director, along with a proposed plan for management and/or operation of the project while liquidation is pending.
