
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### ยง 1955.65 Management of inventory and/or custodial real property.
######## Management methods.

(b)Management methods and requirements will vary depending on such things as the number of properties involved, their density of location, and market conditions. Management tools which may be used effectively range from contracts to secure individual property, have the grass cut, or winterize a dwelling; a simple management contract to provide maintenance and other services on a group of properties (including but not limited to specification writing, inspection of repairs, and yard and directional signs and their installation), or manage an MFH project; blanket-purchase arrangement contracts to obtain services for more than one property; to a broad-scope management contract with a real estate broker or management agent which may include inspection and specification-writing services, making simple repairs, obtaining lessees, collecting rents, coordination with listing brokers in marketing the properties and effecting eviction of tenants when necessary. A contractor may handle evictions only where State laws permit the contractor to do so in his/her own name; a contractor may not pursue eviction in the name of the Government. Custodial property may be managed in the same manner as inventory property except that it may be leased only if it is habitable without repairs in excess of those authorized in ยง 1955.55(c) of this subpart. Farm or organization property, such as rental housing and community facilities, may be operated under a management contract if the State Director has determined it is approporiate to have the property in operation. In any case, the primary consideration in selecting the method of management to be used is to protect the Government's interest. If property to be operated or leased under a management contract is located in an area identified by the Federal Insurance Administration as a special flood or mudslide hazard area, lessees or tenants must be notified to that effect in accordance with ยง 1955.66(e) of this subpart. A management contract which covers property in such a hazard area may provide for the contractor to issue the required notices.
