
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### ยง 1955.63 Suitability determination.
######## Housing property.

(c)Property which secured housing loans will be classified as "program" or "nonprogram (NP)." After a determination of whether the property is suited for retention in the respective program, the repair policy outlined in ยง 1955.64(a) of this subpart will be followed. In determining whether a property is suited for retention in the program, items such as size, design, possible health and/or safety hazards and obsolescence due to functional, economic, or locational conditions must carefully be considered. Generally, program property will meet, or can be realistically repaired to meet, the standards for existing housing outlined in Subpart A of Part 1944 of this chapter provided the property is typical of modest homes in the area. The cost of repairs will generally not be considered in determining suitability. Since houses, sites and locations vary widely throughout the country, discretion and sound judgment must be used in determining suitability. The majority of houses RHS acquires will be suited for retention and classified as program property. In some instances, property will not be suited for retention in the program and will be classified as "nonprogram (NP)" property. Situations of this type include, but are not limited to:

(1) A dwelling which has been enlarged or improved to the point where it is clearly above modest.

(2) When a determination is made that the property should not have been financed originally.

(3) A dwelling brought into the program as an existing dwelling which met program standards at the time it was originally financed by the Agency but which does not conform to current policies. This includes older and/or larger houses of a type which have proven to create excessive energy and/or maintenance costs to very-low and low-income borrowers.

(4) A dwelling which is obsolete due to location, design, construction or age.

(5) A dwelling which requires major redesign/renovation to be brought to program standards.

(d) [Reserved]
