
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### ยง 1955.62 Removal and disposition of nonsecurity personal property from inventory real property.
######## Disposal of unclaimed personal property.

(b)If the property is not removed by the former borrower or a lienholder after notification as outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the servicing official shall list the items with clear description, estimated value, and indication of which are covered by a lien, if any, and submit the list to the State Director with a request for authorization to have the items removed and disposed of. Based on advice from OGC, the State Director will give authorization and provide instructions for removal and disposal of the personal property. If approved by OGC, the property may be disposed of as follows:

(1) If a reasonable amount can likely be realized by the agency from sale of the personal property, it may be sold at public sale. Items under lien will be sold first and the proceeds up to the amount of the lien paid to the lienholders less a pro rata share of the sale expenses. Proceeds from sale of items not under lien and proceeds in excess of the amount due a lienholder will be remitted and applied in the following order:

(i) To the inventory account up to the amount of expenses incurred by the Government in connection with sale of the personal property (such as advertising and auctioneer, if used).

(ii) To an unsatisfied balance on the Rural Development loan account, if any.

(iii) To the borrower, if whereabouts are known.

(2) If personal property is not sold, a mover or hauler may be authorized to take the items for moving costs. Refer to RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office) for guidance.
