
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### ยง 1955.65 Management of inventory and/or custodial real property.
######## Authority to enter into management contracts.

(2)(i) The County Supervisor may enter into a management contract for basic services involving farms or not more than 25 single-family dwellings; however, the aggregate amount paid under a contract may not exceed the contracting authority limitation for County Supervisors outlined in RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office).

(ii) A District Director may enter into a management contract for basic maintenance and management services for an MFH project within the contracting authority outlined in RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office). The aggregate amount of any contract may not exceed that contracting authority.

(iii) A CO in the State Office may enter into a management contract for basic services involving more than 25 single-family dwellings, a more complex management contract for SFH property, or an appropriate contract for management or operation of farm or organization-type property. The aggregate amount paid under a contract may not exceed the contracting authority limitation for State Office staff outlined in RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Rural Development office).

(iv) If a proposed management contract will exceed the contracting authority for State Office staff within a short time, a request for contract action will be forwarded to the Administrator, to the attention of the appropriate program division.
