
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### ยง 1955.65 Management of inventory and/or custodial real property.
######## Management contracts.

(1)Management contracts are flexible instruments which may be tailored to meet the specific needs of almost any situation involving custodial or inventory property. This type of contract may be used to manage and maintain SFH properties, farms, and any other type of facility for which Rural Development is responsible. Organization-type properties will be secured, maintained, repaired, and operated if authorized, in accordance with a management plan prepared by the District Director and approved by the State Director if the amount of total debt does not exceed the State Director's loan approval authority, or by the Administrator. For MFH projects, tenant occupancy and selection will be in accordance with the occupancy standards set forth in 7 CFR part 3560, subpart D. Tenants will be required to sign a written lease if one does not exist when the property is acquired or taken into custody. If a contract involves management of an MFH project with 5 or more units, or 5 or more single-family dwellings located in the same subdivision, the contractor must furnish Form HUD 935.2, "Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan," subject to Rural Development's approval. Contracts for management of farm inventory property will be offered on a competitive bid basis, giving preference to persons who live in, and own and operate qualified small businesses in the area where the property is located in accordance with the provisions in RD Instruction 2024-Q (available in any Rural Development office).
