
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### § 1955.66 Lease of real property.
######## Property securing Farm Credit Programs loans located within an Indian Reservation.

(d)(1) State Executive Directors will contact the Bureau of Indian Affairs Agency supervisor to determine the boundaries of Indian Reservations and Indian allotments.

(2) Not later than 90 days after acquiring a property, FSA will afford the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the Indian reservation within which the inventory property is located an opportunity to purchase the property. The purchase shall be in accordance with the priority rights as follows:

(i) To a member of the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the reservation within which the real property is located;

(ii) To an Indian corporate entity;

(iii) To the Indian tribe.

(3) The Indian tribe having jurisdiction over the Indian reservation may revise the order of priority and may restrict the eligibility for purchase to:

(i) Persons who are members of such Indian tribe;

(ii) Indian corporate entities that are authorized by such Indian tribe to purchase lands within the boundaries of the reservation; or

(iii) The Indian tribe itself.

(4) If any individual, Indian corporate entity, or Indian tribe covered in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section wishes to purchase the property, the county official must determine the prospective purchaser has the financial resources and management skills and experience that is sufficient to assure a reasonable prospect that the terms of the purchase agreement can be fulfilled.

(5) If the real property is not purchased by any individual, Indian corporate entity or Indian tribe pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section and all appeals have concluded, the State Executive Director shall transfer the property to the Secretary of the Interior if they are agreeable. If present on the property being transferred, important resources will be protected as outlined in §§ 1955.137 and 1955.139 of subpart C of this part.

(6) Properties within a reservation formerly owned by entities and non-tribal members will be treated as regular inventory that is not located on an Indian Reservation and disposed of pursuant to this part.
