
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart B - Management of Property
####### Exhibit B to Subpart B of Part 1955 - Notification of Tribe of Availability of Farm Property for Purchase

Recently the Farm Service Agency (FSA) acquired title to ________ acres of farm real property located within the boundaries of your Reservation. The previous owner of this property was ________. The property is available for purchase by persons who are members of your tribe, an Indian Corporate entity, or the tribe itself. Our regulations provide for those three distinct priority categories which may be eligible; however, you may revise the order of the priority categories and may restrict the eligibility to one or any combination of categories. Following is a more detailed description of these categories:

1. Persons who are members of your Tribe. Individuals so selected must be able to meet the eligibility criteria for the purchase of Government inventory property and be able to carry on a family farming operation. Those persons not eligible for FSA's regular programs may also purchase this property as a Non-Program loan on ineligible rates and terms.

2. Indian corporate entities. You may restrict eligible Indian corporate entities to those authorized by your Tribe to purchase lands within the boundaries of your Reservation. These entities also must meet the basic eligibility criteria established for the type of assistance granted.

3. The Tribe itself is also considered eligible to exercise their right to purchase the property. If available, Indian Land Acquisition funds may be used or the property financed as a Non-Program loan on ineligible rates and terms.

We are requesting that you notify the local FSA county office of your selection or intentions within 45 days of receipt of this letter, regarding the purchase of this real estate. If you have questions regarding eligibility for any of the groups mentioned above, please contact our office. If the Tribe wishes to purchase the property, but is unable to do so at this time, contact with the FSA county office should be made.
