
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (CONACT) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.105 Real property affected (CONACT).
######### Effects of farm property sales on farm values.

(c)State Directors will analyze farm real estate market conditions within the geographic areas of their jurisdiction and determine whether or not the sale of the Rural Development farm inventory properties will have a detrimental effect on the value of farms within these areas. Such analysis will be carried out in January of each year and as often throughout the year as necessary to reflect changing farm real estate conditions. If the analyses of farm real estate conditions indicate that such sales would put downward pressure on farm real estate values in any area, all farm properties within the area affected will be withheld from the market and managed in accordance with the provisions of Subpart B of this Part until such time that a subsequent analysis indicates otherwise. The State Director will notify, in writing, the County Supervisor(s) servicing those areas that are restricted from selling farm inventory property. State Directors in consultation with other lenders, real estate agents, auctioneers, and others in the community will analyze all available information such as:

(1) The number of farms and acres that Rural Development expects to acquire in inventory.

(2) The number of farms and acres other lenders expect to acquire in inventory.

(3) The number of farms and acres that Rural Development currently has in inventory.

(4) The number of farms and acres other lenders currently have in inventory.

(5) The number of farms not included in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section which are currently listed for sale.

(6) Published real estate values and trend reports such as those available from the Economic Research Service or professional appraisal organizations.
