
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (CONACT) Real Property
######## § 1955.107 Sale of FSA property (CONACT).
######### Suitable Property.

(a)Not later than 15 days from the date of acquisition, the Agency will advertise suitable property for sale. For properties currently under a lease, except leases to beginning farmers and ranchers under § 1955.66(a)(2)(iii) of subpart B of this part, the property will be advertised for sale not later than 60 days after the lease expires or is terminated. There will be a preference for beginning farmers or ranchers. The advertisement will contain a provision to lease the property to a beginning farmer or rancher for up to 18 months should FSA credit assistance not be available at the time of sale. The first advertisement will not be required to contain the sales price but it should inform potential beginning farmer or rancher applicants that applications will be accepted pending completion of the advertisement process. When possible, the sale of suitable FSA property should be handled by county officials. Farm property will be advertised for sale by publishing, as a minimum, two weekly advertisements in at least two newspapers that are widely circulated in the area in which the farm is located. Consideration will be given to advertising inventory properties in major farm publications. Either Form RD 1955-40 or Form RD 1955-41, "Notice of Sale," will be posted in a prominent place in the county. Maximum publicity should be given to the sale under guidance provided by § 1955.146 of this subpart and care should be taken to spell out eligibility criteria. Tribal Councils or other recognized Indian governing bodies having jurisdiction over Indian reservations (see § 1955.103 of this subpart) shall be responsible for notifying those parties in § 1955.66(d)(2) of subpart B of this part.
