
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (CONACT) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.107 Sale of FSA property (CONACT).
######### Random selection.

(ii)The county official will first determine whether applicants meet the eligibility requirements of a beginning farmer or rancher. For applicants who are not determined to be beginning farmers or ranchers, they may request that the State Executive Director provide an expedited review and determination of whether the applicant is a beginning farmer or rancher for the purpose of acquiring inventory property. This review shall take place not later than 30 days after denial of the application. The State Executive Director's review decision shall be final and is not administratively appealable. When there is more than one beginning farmer or rancher applicant, the Agency will select by lot by placing the names in a receptacle and drawing names sequentially. Drawn offers will be numbered and those drawn after the first drawn name will be held in suspense pending sale to the successful applicant. The random selection drawing will be open to the public, and applicants will be advised of the time and place.
