
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (CONACT) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.107 Sale of FSA property (CONACT).
######### Credit sale procedure.

(3)Subject to the availability of funds, credit sale to program applicants will be processed as follows:

(i) The interest rate charged by the Agency will be the lower of the interest rates in effect at the time of loan approval or closing.

(ii) The loan limits for the requested type of assistance are applicable to a credit sale to an eligible applicant.

(iii) Title clearance and loan closing for a credit sale and any subsequent loan to be closed simultaneously must be the same as for an initial loan except that:

(A) Form RD 1955-49, "Quitclaim Deed," or other form of nonwarranty deed approved by the Office of the General Counsel (OGC) will be used.

(B) The buyer will pay attorney's fees and title insurance costs, recording fees, and other customary fees unless they are included in a subsequent loan. A subsequent loan may not be made for the primary purpose of paying closing costs and fees.

(iv) Property sold on credit sale may not be used for any purpose that will contribute to excessive erosion of highly erodible land or to the conversion of wetlands to produce an agricultural commodity. All prospective buyers will be notified in writing as a part of the property advertisement of the presence of highly erodible land and wetlands on inventory property.
