
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (CONACT) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.107 Sale of FSA property (CONACT).
######### Rates and terms.

(4)Subject to the availability of funds, rates and terms for Homestead Protection will be in accordance with subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter. Sales of suitable property offered to program eligible applicants will be on rates and terms provided in subpart A of part 1943 of this chapter. Surplus property and suitable property which has not been sold to program eligible applicants will be offered for cash or on ineligible terms in accordance with subpart J of part 1951 of this chapter. The State Executive Director will determine the loan terms for surplus property within these limitations. A credit sale made on ineligible terms will be closed at the interest rate in effect at the time the credit sale was approved. After extensive sales efforts where no acceptable offer has been received, the State Executive Director may request the Administrator to permit offering surplus property for sale on more favorable rates and terms; however, the terms may not be more favorable than those legally permissible for eligible borrowers. Surplus property will be offered for sale for cash or terms that will provide the best net return for the Government. The term of financing extended may not be longer than the period for which the property will serve as adequate security. All credit sales on ineligible terms will be identified as NP loans.
