
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## § 1955.112 Method of sale (housing).
######### Sealed bid or auction.,only,

(c)The use of sealed bids or auctions is an effective method by which to sell inventory property. If the State Director determines that NP SFH property has been given adequate market exposure and that diligent sales efforts have not produced buyers, or under unusual circumstances as outlined in § 1955.115(a)(1) of this subpart, he/she will authorize sale by sealed bid or auction unless additional sales methods appear more prudent. Program SFH property will be sold by regular saleunless the Assistant Administrator, Housing, authorizes sale by sealed bid or auction. The State Director will request such authorization when all reasonable marketing efforts fail to produce buyers and the conditions of § 1955.114(a)(6) of this subpart have been met. The case file, including documentation of all marketing efforts, will be forwarded to the Assistant Administrator, Housing, ATTN: Single Family Housing Servicing and Property Management (SFH/SPM) Division, to request authority to sell program property by sealed bid or auction. The decision to utilize a sealed bid or auction must be carefully weighed when the property is located in a subdivision, since the resultant sale may have an adverse effect on surrounding property values. Detailed guidance for conducting sealed bid sales is provided in § 1955.147 of this subpart and for conducting auction sales in §§ 1955.131 and 1955.148 of this subpart.
