
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.112 Method of sale (housing).
######### Real estate brokers.

(b)The County Office will utilize the services of real estate brokers for regular sales when there are five or more properties in inventory at any one time during the calendar year. When real estate brokers are used, first consideration will be given to utilizing such services under an exclusive broker contract as provided for in ยง 1955.130 of this subpart. Only when it is determined that an exclusive broker contract is not practicable, will the services of real estate brokers under an open listing agreement be utilized. The use of real estate brokers in offices having less than five properties in inventory at any one time during the calendar year is optional provided staffing and workload permit diligent and timely sales by Rural Development. When broker services for SFH are utilized, the Rural Development office will not conduct direct sales, but will refer inquiries to the broker or list of participating brokers. However, if Rural Development has been approached by a potential buyer desiring to purchase a specific property and a sales contract has been accepted, the property will not be listed for sale with real estate brokers. Earnest money held by real estate brokers will be used to pay the purchaser's closing costs with any balance of the costs to be paid by the purchaser. Any required earnest money deposit is exclusive of any required credit report fee. Brokers may only be used for MFH with authorization of the Assistant Administrator, Housing.
