
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.114 Sales steps for program property (housing).
######### Multiple family housing.

(b)The sale price will be established in accordance with ยง 1955.113 of this subpart. Notification of known interested prospective offerors and advertising should be handled as set forth in ยง 1955.146 of this subpart. The sale information will include a sale price, any restrictive-use provisions the project will be subject to and made part of the title, a date/time/location when offers will be drawn, and require all offerors to submit an application package comparable to that required by the respective loan program, which will be reviewed by the State Director or designee. The sale/time/location will be established by the District Director and will allow adequate time for advertising and review of applications to determine eligibility in accordance with MFH program requirements. Offerors whose applications are rejected by by Rural Development will be notified in writing by the approval official, and for program applicants, given appeal rights in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. If an application is rejected, the sale will continue regardless of whether the rejected applicant appeals the adverse decision. Property will not be held pending the outcome of an appeal. An offeror may withdraw an offer prior to the sale date, but not on the sale date. All offers from applicants determined eligible for the type loan being offered will be considered. The District Director, or delegate, and one other Rural Development employee will conduct the drawing at which time the public may be present. Offers will be placed in a receptacle and drawn sequentially. Drawn offers will be numbered and those drawn after the first drawn will be held as back-up offers, unless the offeror has indicated that the offer may not be held as back-up. Award will be made to the first offer drawn provided the offer is acceptable as to the terms and conditions set forth in the sale notice. The successful offeror will be notified immediately in writing by the approval official, return receipt requested, that the successful offeror's offer has been accepted even if the successful offeror was present at the sale. The remaining offerors will each be notified by letter, return receipt requested, that their offer was not successful, but will be held as a back-up offer. The selection of the offeror was by lot and is therefore not appealable. If an unsuccessful offeror was not present at the sale and requests the name of the successful offeror, the name may be released. If the MFH property has been listed with real estate brokers after receiving authorization from the Assistant Administrator, Housing, Form RD 1955-40, or another appropriate form designated for MFH property, will be used and the property sold to the first eligible program applicant. Any other method of sale must receive prior written authorization from the Assistant Administrator, Housing. Cash sales of program property will remain subject to restrictive-use provisions determined needed and included in the advertisement. The deed will contain the applicable restrictive-use provisions. Tenants and prospective tenants will receive the applicable protections for the specific restrictive-use provision contained in 7 CFR part 3560, subpart N.
