
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.114 Sales steps for program property (housing).
######### Single family housing (SFH).

(a)Sale prices will be established in accordance with ยง 1955.113 of this subpart. The County Supervisor will either offer the property or list it with real estate brokers for regular sale under the provisions of ยง 1955.112 of this subpart. See Exhibit D of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office) which outlines chronologically the sales steps for program property.

(1) The following provisions apply to all offers to purchase SFH inventory property:

(i) Program property will be available for purchase only by program applicants for the first 45 days from the date of the initial offering or listing, and for the first 45 days following the date of any reduction in price. During these 45-day period(s), offers from others may be received and held until the first business day following the 45-day period (the 46th day) when any such offer(s) will be considered as received on the 46th day along with offers received on that same (46th) day. After the expiration of each 45-day exclusive period for program applicants, program property may be purchased by offerors requesting credit on program terms, nonprogram (NP) terms or for cash in the order of priority set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
