
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.114 Sales steps for program property (housing).
######### must

(ii) In regular sales, an acceptable offerbe for at least the sale price. No offer for less than the sale price will be considered, accepted or held. Offers will be considered as acceptable or unacceptable independent of any accompanying credit request (on program or NP terms).

(iii) All offers will be date-stamped when received. Selection of equally acceptable offers, considering offers in the category order outlined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, received on the same business day will be made by lot by placing the names in a receptacle and drawing names sequentially. Drawn offers will be numbered and those drawn after the first drawn offer will be held as back-up offers pending sale to the successful offeror, unless the offeror has specifically noted on the offer that it may not be held as a back-up offer.

(iv) An offer may be submitted any time after the effective date the property is available for sale or any price reduction; however, it is not considered until five business days after the effective date. An offer received during the five business day period is considered on the 6th day, at the same time as any offer received on the 6th day.

(v) If an offer subject to Rural Development financing is accepted, and the offeror's credit request is later denied, the next offer (if any) will be accepted regardless of whether the rejected applicant appeals the adverse decision (NP applicants do not receive appeal rights). In cases involving program property, if no back-up offers are on hand, the property will be reoffered/relisted for sale utilizing the balance of any outstanding retention period. Property will not be held off the market pending the outcome of an appeal.
