
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.114 Sales steps for program property (housing).
######### Priority of offers.

(3)For program properties, acceptable offers received after the 45-day retention period specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section have priority in the order given in paragraphs (a)(3) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section. For NP properties, acceptable offers have priority in the order given in paragraphs (a)(3) (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section. Program applicants may purchase NP property, however, credit may only be extended on NP terms.

(i) Offers with requests for credit on program terms. An offer from an applicant requesting credit on program terms in excess of the sale price will be considered as equally acceptable with other acceptable offers from program applicants and will be sold for the sale price.

(ii) Cash offers, in descending order from highest to lowest, provided the cash offer is higher than any other offer which falls into the parameters of paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section multiplied by the current cash preference percentage listed in exhibit B of RD Instruction 440.1 (available in any Rural Development office).
