
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## § 1955.114 Sales steps for program property (housing).
######### Single family inventory converted to MFH.

(c)Written offers by nonprofit organizations, public bodies or for-profit entities, which have good records of providing low income housing under section 515, will be considered by Rural Development for the purchase of multiple SFH units for conversion to MFH. Section 514 credit sale mortgages may contain repayment terms up to 33 years and section 515 credit sale mortgage terms may be up to 50 years.

(1) The price provisions of § 1955.113 and the processing provisions for MFH in § 1955.117 of this subpart apply to such a conversion.

(2) The provisions of § 1955.130 of this subpart pertaining to real estate brokers apply, as applicable, and a commission will be due in the normal manner on units which were listed with the broker(s).

(3) Prior approval of the National Office is required before issuance of Form AD-622, "Notice of Preapplication Review Action." A preapplication with documentation as required by the Agency, along with the State Director's recommendation, will be forwarded to the National Office, Attention: Assistant Administrator, Housing, for a determination and further guidance.

(4) A credit sale for this purpose will be made according to the provisions of 7 CFR part 3560, as modified by § 1955.117 of this subpart, except the units need not be contiguous, but they must be located in close enough proximity so that management costs are not increased nor management capabilities diminished because of distance.

(5) An additional loan may be made simultaneously with the credit sale, or later, only when the property involved meets the requirements of 7 CFR part 3560, subpart K.
