
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Rural Housing (RH) Real Property
######## ยง 1955.117 Processing credit sales on program terms (housing).
######### Closing sale.

(g)Title clearance, loan closing and property insurance requirements for a credit sale, and any loan closed simultaneously with the credit sale, are the same as for a program loan of the same type except:

(1) The property will be conveyed in accordance with ยง 1955.141(a) of this subpart.

(2) Earnest money, if any, will be used to pay purchaser's closing costs with any balance of closing costs being paid from the purchaser's personal funds except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. For SFH credit sales and MFH credit sales to nonprofit organizations or public bodies, any excess deposit will be refunded to the purchaser. For MFH credit sales to profit or limited profit buyers, any excess earnest money deposit will be credited to the purchase price and recognized as a part of the purchaser's initial investment.

(3) The County Supervisor or District Director will provide the closing agent with the necessary information for closing the sale. The assistance of OGC will be requested to provide closing instructions in exceptional or complex cases and for all MFH sales.
