
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Chattel Property
######## ยง 1955.123 Sale procedures (chattel).
######### Credit sales.

(a)Although cash sales are preferred in the sale of chattel, credit sales may be used advantageously in the sale of chattels to eligible purchasers and to facilitate sales of high-priced chattels. Credit sales to eligible purchasers will be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for the appropriate program for which a loan would otherwise be made including eligibility determinations. Preference will be given to a cash offer that is at least * percent of the higher offer requiring credit. [*Refer to exhibit B of RD Instruction 440.1 (available in any Rural Development office) for the current percentage.] Credit sales made to ineligible purchasers will require not less than a 10 percent downpayment with the remaining balance amortized over a period not to exceed 5 years. The interest rate for ineligible purchasers of C&BP chattel will be the current ineligible interest rate for C&BP property set forth in Exhibit B of RD Instruction 440.1 (available in any Rural Development office). District Directors and State Directors are authorized to approve or disapprove sale of C&BP chattel on ineligible terms in accordance with the respective type of program approval authorities in Exhibit E of Subpart A of Part 1901 of this chapter (available in any Rural Development office). For other than C&BP, credit sales to NP purchasers will be handled in accordance with Subpart J of Part 1951 of this chapter.
