
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### Use of Contractors To Dispose of Inventory Property
######## ยง 1955.130 Real estate brokers.
######### Payment of commission.

(3)Payment of a broker's commission is contingent on the closing of the sale and will not be paid until the sale has closed and title has passed to the purchaser. No commission will be paid where the sale is to the broker, broker's salesperson(s), to persons living in his/her or salesperson(s) immediate household or to legal entities in which the broker or salesperson(s) have an interest if the sale is contingent upon receiving Rural Development credit. If credit is not being extended in these instances (a cash sale), a commission will be paid. Under an exclusive broker contract, if a cooperating broker purchases the property and is receiving Rural Development credit, one-half the respective commission will be paid to the exclusive broker. Commissions will be paid at closing if sufficient cash to cover the commission is paid by the purchaser. Otherwise, the commission will be paid by the appropriate Rural Development official by completing Form AD-838 and processing Form RD 838-B for payment in accordance with the respective FMI's, and charged to the inventory account as a nonrecoverable cost.
