
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.135 Taxes on inventory real property.

Where Rural Development owned property is subject to taxation, taxes and assessment installments will be prorated between Rural Development and the purchaser as of the date the title is conveyed in accordance with the conditions of Forms RD 1955-45 or RD 1955-46. The purchaser will be responsible for paying all taxes and assessment installments accruing after the title is conveyed. The County Supervisor or District Director will advise the taxing authority of the sale, the purchaser's name, and the description of the property sold. Only the prorata share of assessment installments for property improvements (water, sewer, curb and gutter, etc.) accrued as of the date property is sold will be paid by Rural Development for inventory property. At the closing, payment of taxes and assessment installments due to be paid by Rural Development will be paid from cash proceeds Rural Development is to receive as a result of the sale or by voucher and will be accomplished by one of the following:

(a) For purchasers receiving Rural Development credit and required to escrow, Rural Development's share of accrued taxes and assessment installments will be deposited in the purchaser's escrow account.

(b) For purchasers not required to escrow, accrued taxes and assessment installments may be:

(i) Paid to the local taxing authority if they will accept payment at that time; or

(ii) Paid to the purchaser. If appropriate, for program purchasers, the funds can be deposited in a supervised bank account until the taxes can be paid.

(c) Except for SFH, deducted from the sale price (which may result in a promissory note less than the sale price), if acceptable to the purchaser.
