
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.139 Disposition of real property rights and title to real property.
######### Easements, rights-of-way, development rights, restrictions or the equivalent thereof.

(a)The State Director is authorized to convey these rights for conservation purposes, roads, utilities, and other purposes as follows:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, easements or rights-of-way may be conveyed to public bodies or utilities if the conveyance is in the public interest and will not adversely affect the value of the real estate. The consideration must be adequate for the inventory property being released or for a purpose which will enhance the value of the real estate. If there is to be an assessment as a result of the conveyance, relative values must be considered, including any appropriate adjustment to the property's market value, and adequate consideration must be received for any reduction in value.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section easements or rights-of-way may be sold by negotiation for market value to any purchaser for cash without giving public notice if the conveyance would not change the classification from program/suitable to NP or surplus, nor decrease the value by more than the price received.

(3) For FSA properties only, easements, restrictions, development rights or similar legal rights may be granted or sold separately from the underlying fee or sum of all other rights possessed by the Government if such conveyances are for conservation purposes and are transferred to a State, a political subdivision of a State, or a private nonprofit organization. Easements may be granted or sold to a Federal agency for conservation purposes as long as the requirements of ยง 1955.139(c)(2) of this subpart are followed. If FSA has an affirmative responsibility such as protecting an endangered species as provided for in paragraph (a)(3(v) of this section, the requirements in ยง 1955.139(c) of this subpart do not apply.

(i) Conservation purposes include but are not limited to protecting or conserving the following environmental resources or land uses:

(A) Fish and wildlife habitats of local, regional, State, or Federal importance,

(B) Floodplain and wetland areas as defined in Executive Orders 11988 and 11990,

(C) Highly erodible land as defined by SCS,

(D) Important farmland, prime forest land, or prime rangeland as defined in Departmental Regulation 9500-3, Land Use Policy,

(E) Aquifer recharge areas of local, regional or State importance,

(F) Areas of high water quality or scenic value, and

(G) Historic and cultural properties.

(ii) Development rights may be sold for conservation purposes for their market value directly to a unit of local or State governmental or a private nonprofit organization by negotiation.

(iii) An easement, restriction or the equivalent thereof may be granted or sold for less than market value to a unit of local, State, Federal government or a private nonprofit organization for conservation purposes. If such a conveyance will adversely affect the Rural Development's financial interest, the State Director will submit the proposal to the Administrator for approval unless the State Director has been delegated approval authority in writing from the Administrator to approve such transactions based upon demonstrated capability and experience in processing such conveyances. Factors to be addressed in formulating such a request include the intended conservation purpose(s) and the environmental importance of the affected property, the impact to the Government's financial interest, the financial resources of the potential purchaser or grantee and its normal method of acquiring similar property rights, the likely impact to environment should the property interest not be sold or granted and any other relevant factors or concerns prompting the State Director's request.

(iv) Property interests under this paragraph may be conveyed by negotiation with any eligible recipient without giving public notice if the conveyance would not change program/suitable property to NP or surplus. Conveyances shall include terms and conditions which clearly specify the property interest(s) being conveyed as well as all appropriate restrictions and allowable uses. The conveyances shall also require the owner of such interest to permit the Rural Development, and any person or government entity designated by the Rural Development, to have access to the affected property for the purpose of monitoring compliance with terms and conditions of the conveyance. To the maximum extent possible, the conveyance should designate an organization or government entity for monitoring purposes. In developing the conveyance, the approval official shall consult with any State or Federal agency having special expertise regarding the environmental resource(s) or land uses to be protected.

(v) For FP cases except when Rural Development has an affirmative responsibility to place a conservation easement upon a farm property, easements under the authority of this paragraph will not be established unless either the rights of all prior owner(s) have been met or the prior owner(s) consents to the easement. Examples of instances where an affirmative responsibility exists to place an easement on a farm property include wetland and floodplain conservation easements required by ยง 1955.137 of this subpart or easements designed as environmental mitigation measures for the purpose of protecting federally designated important environmental resources. These resources include: Listed or proposed endangered or threatened species, listed or proposed critical habitats, designated or proposed wilderness areas, designated or proposed wild or scenic rivers, historic or archaeological sites listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, coastal barriers included in Coastal Barrier Resource Systems, natural landmarks listed on national Registry of Natural Landmarks, and sole source aquifer recharge as designated by the Environmental Protection Agency.

(vi) For FP cases whenever a request is made for an easement under the authority of this paragraph and such request overlaps an area upon which Rural Development has an affirmative responsibility to place an easement, that required portion of the easement, either in terms of geographical extent or content, will not be considered to adversely impact the value of the farm property.

(4) A copy of the conveyance instrument will be retained in the County or District Office inventory file. The grantee is responsible for recording the instrument.
