
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.137 Real property located in special areas or having special characteristics.
######### Limitations placed on financial assistance.

(3)(i) Financial assistance is limited to property located in areas where flood insurance is available. Flood insurance must be provided at closing of loans on program-eligible and non-program (NP)-ineligible terms. Appraisals of property in flood or mudslide hazard areas will reflect this condition and any restrictions on use. Financial assistance for substantial improvement or repair of property located in a flood or mudslide hazard area is subject to the limitations outlined in 7 CFR part 1970 for Rural Development programs.

(ii) Pursuant to the requirements of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (CBRA) and except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section, no credit sales will be provided for property located within a CBRS where:

(A) It is known that the purchaser plans to further develop the property;

(B) A subsequent loan or any other type of Federal financial assistance as defined by the CBRA has been requested for additional development of the property;

(C) The sale is inconsistent with the purpose of the CBRA; or

(D) The property to be sold was the subject of a previous financial transaction that violated the CBRA.

(iii) For purposes of this section, additional development means the expansion, but not maintenance, replacement-in-kind, reconstruction, or repair of any roads, structures or facilities. Water and waste disposal facilities as well as community facilities may be repaired to the extent required to meet health and safety requirements, but may not be improved or expanded to serve new users, patients or residents.

(iv) A sale which is not in conflict with the limitations in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section shall not be completed until the approval official has consulted with the appropriate Regional Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Regional Director concurs that the proposed sale does not violate the provisions of the CBRA.

(v) Any proposed sale that does not conform to the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section must be forwarded to the Administrator for review. Approval will not be granted unless the Administrator determines, through consultation with the Department of Interior, that the proposed sale does not violate the provisions of the CBRA.
