
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.137 Real property located in special areas or having special characteristics.
######### Historic preservation.

(c)(1) Pursuant to the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act and Executive Order 11593, "Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment," the Agency official responsible for the conveyance must determine if the property is listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. (See subpart F of part 1901 of this chapter for additional guidance.) The State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) must be consulted whenever one of the following criteria are met:

(i) The property includes a structure that is more than 50 years old.

(ii) Regardless of age, the property is known to be of historical or archaeological importance; has apparent significant architectural features; or is similar to other Agency properties that have been determined to be eligible.

(iii) An environmental assessment is required prior to a decision on the conveyance.

(2) If the result of the consultations with the SHPO is that a property may be eligible or that it is questionable, an official determination must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior.

(3) If a property is listed on the National Register or is determined eligible for listing by the Secretary of Interior, the Agency official responsible for the conveyance must consult with the SHPO in order to develop any necessary restrictions on the use of the property so that the future use will be compatible with preservation objectives and which does not result in an unreasonable economic burden to public or private interest. The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation must be consulted by the State Director or State Executive Director after the discussions with the SHPO are concluded regardless of whether or not an agreement is reached.

(4) Any restrictions that are developed on the use of the property as a result of the above consultations must be made known to a potential bidder or purchaser through a notice procedure similar to that in ยง 1955.13(a)(2) of this subpart.
