
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.137 Real property located in special areas or having special characteristics.
######### Wetlands located on FSA inventory property.

(b)Perpetual wetland conservation easements (encumbrances in deeds) to protect and restore wetlands or converted wetlands that exist on suitable or surplus inventory property will be established prior to sale of such property. The provisions of paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section also apply, as does paragraph (a)(1) of this section insofar as floodplains are concerned. This requirement applies to either cash or credit sales. Similar restrictions will be included in leases of inventory properties to beginning farmers or ranchers. Wetland conservation easements will be established as follows:

(1) All wetlands or converted wetlands located on FSA inventory property which were not considered cropland on the date the property was acquired and were not used for farming at any time during the period beginning on the date 5 years before the property was acquired and ending on the date the property was acquired will receive a wetland conservation easement.

(2) All wetlands or converted wetlands located on FSA inventory property that were considered cropland on the date the property was acquired or were used for farming at any time during the period beginning on the date 5 years before the property was acquired and ending on the date the property was acquired will not receive a wetland conservation easement.

(3) The following steps should be taken in determining if conservation easements are necessary for the protection of wetlands or converted wetland on inventory property:

(i) NRCS will be contacted first to identify the wetlands or converted wetlands and wetland boundaries of each wetland or converted wetland on inventory property.

(ii) After receiving the wetland determination from NRCS, FSA will review the determination for each inventory property and determine if any of the wetlands or converted wetlands identified by NRCS were considered cropland on the date the property was acquired or were used for farming at any time during the period beginning on the date 5 years before the property was acquired and ending on the date the property was acquired. Property will be considered to have been used for farming if it was primarily used for agricultural purposes including but not limited to such uses as cropland, pasture, hayland, orchards, vineyards and tree farming.

(iii) After FSA has completed the determination of whether the wetlands or converted wetlands located on an inventory property were used for cropland or farming, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) will be contacted. Based on the technical considerations of the potential functions and values of the wetlands on the property, FWS will identify those wetlands or converted wetlands that require protection with a wetland conservation easement along with the boundaries of the required wetland conservation easement. FWS may also make other recommendations if needed for the protection of important resources such as threatened or endangered species during this review.

(4) The wetland conservation easement will provide for access to other portions of the property as necessary for farming and other uses.

(5) The appraisal of the property must be updated to reflect the value of the land due to the conservation easement on the property.

(6) Easement areas shall be described in accordance with State or local laws. If State or local law does not require a survey, the easement area can be described by rectangular survey, plat map, or other recordable methods.

(7) In most cases the FWS shall be responsible for easement management and administration responsibilities for such areas unless the wetland easement area is an inholding in Federal or State property and that entity agrees to assume such responsibility, or a State fish and wildlife agency having counterpart responsibilities to the FWS is willing to assume easement management and administration responsibilities. The costs associated with such easement management responsibilities shall be the responsibility of the agency that assumes easement management and administration.

(8) County officials are encouraged to begin the easement process before the property is taken into inventory, if possible, in order to have the program completed before the statutory time requirement for sale.
