
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.137 Real property located in special areas or having special characteristics.
######### Highly erodible farmland.

(d)(1) The FSA county official will determine if any inventory property contains highly erodible land as defined by the NRCS and, if so, what specific conservation practices will be made a condition of a sale of the property.

(2) If the county official does not concur in the need for a conservation practice recommended by NRCS, any differences shall be discussed with the recommending NRCS office. Failure to reach an agreement at that level shall require the State Executive Director to make a final decision after consultation with the NRCS State Conservationist.

(3) Whenever NRCS technical assistance is requested in implementing these requirements and NRCS responds that it cannot provide such assistance within a time frame compatible with the proposed sale, the sale arrangements will go forward. The sale will proceed, conditioned on the requirement that a purchaser will immediately contact (NRCS) have a conservation plan developed and comply with this plan. The county official will monitor the borrower's compliance with the recommendations in the conservation plan. If problems occur in obtaining NRCS assistance, the State Executive Director should consult with the NRCS State Conservationist.
