
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.144 Disposal of NP or surplus property to, through, or acquisition from other agencies.
######### Property which cannot be sold.

(a)If NP or surplus real or chattel property cannot be sold (or only token offers are received for it), the appropriate Assistant Administrator shall give consideration to disposing of the property to other Federal Agencies or State or local governmental entities through the General Services Administration (GSA). Chattel property will be reported to GSA using Standard Form 120, "Report of Excess Personal Property," with transfer documented by Standard Form 122, "Transfer Order Excess Personal Property." Real property will be reported to GSA using Standard Form 118, "Report of Excess Real Property," Standard Form 118A, "Buildings, Structures, Utilities and Miscellaneous Facilities (Schedule A)," Standard Form 118B, "Land (Schedule B)" and Standard Form 118C, "Related Personal Property (Schedule B), " with final disposition documented by a "Receiving Report," executed by the recipient with original forwarded to the Finance Office and a copy retained in the inventory file. Forms and preparation instructions will be obtained from the appropriate GSA Regional Office by the State Office.

(b) Urban Homesteading Program (UH). Section 810 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1979, as amended, authorizes the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to pay for acquired Rural Development single family residential properties sold through the HUD-UH Program. Local governmental units may make application through HUD to participate in the UH Program. State Directors will be notified by the Assistant Administrator for Housing, when local governmental units in their States have obtained funding for the UH Program. The notification will provide specific guidance in accordance with the "Memorandum of Agreement between the Rural Development and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development" dated October 2, 1981. (See Exhibit C of this subpart.) A Local Urban Homesteading Agency (LUHA) is authorized a 10 percent discount of the listed price on any SFH nonprogram property for the UH Program. No discount is authorized on program property.
