
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.139 Disposition of real property rights and title to real property.
######### e.g.,

(E) Fish and wildlife habitats of local, regional, State or Federal importance on lands that provide or have the potential to provide habitat value to species of Federal trust responsibility (Migratory Bird Treaty Act, Anadromous Fish Conservation Act).

(F) Aquifer recharges areas of local, regional, State or Federal importance.

(G) Areas of high water quality or scenic value.

(H) Areas containing historic or cultural property; or

(iii) A predominance of land with special management importance. This is land that meets the following criteria:

(A) Lands that are in holdings, lie adjacent to, or occur in proximity to, Federally or State-owned lands or interest in lands.

(B) Lands that would contribute to the regulation of ingress or egress of persons or equipment to existing Federally or State-owned conservation lands.

(C) Lands that would provide a necessary buffer to development if such development would adversely affect the existing Federally or State-owned lands.

(D) Lands that would contribute to boundary identification and control of existing conservation lands.

(2) When a State or Federal agency requests title to inventory property, the State Executive Director will make a preliminary determination as to whether the property can be transferred.

(3) If a decision is made by the State Executive Director to deny a transfer request by a Federal or State agency, the requesting agency will be informed of the decision in writing and informed that they may request a review of the decision by the FSA Administrator.

(4) When a State or Federal agency requests title to inventory property and the State Executive Director determines that the property is suited for transfer, the following actions must be taken prior to approval of the transfer:

(i) At least two public notices must be provided. These notices will be published in a newspaper with a wide circulation in the area in which the requested property is located. The notice will provide information on the proposed use of the property by the requesting agency and request any comments concerning the negative or positive aspects of the request. A 30-day comment period should be established for the receipt of comments.

(ii) If requested, at least one public meeting must be held to discuss the request. A representative of the requesting agency should be present at the meeting in order to answer questions concerning the proposed conservation use of the property. The date and time for a public meeting should be advertised.

(iii) Written notice must be provided to the Governor of the State in which the property is located as well as at least one elected official of the county in which the property is located. The notification should provide information on the request and solicit any comments regarding the proposed transfer. All procedural requirements in paragraph (c) (3) of this section must be completed in 75 days.

(5) Determining priorities for transfer or inventory lands.

(i) A Federal entity will be selected over a State entity.

(ii) If two Federal agencies request the same land tract, priority will be given to the Federal agency that owns or controls property adjacent to the property in question or if this is not the case, to the Federal agency whose mission or expertise best matches the conservation purposes for which the transfer would be established.

(iii) In selecting between State agencies, priority will be given to the State agency that owns or controls property adjacent to the property in question or if that is not the case, to the State agency whose mission or expertise best matches the conservation purpose(s) for which the transfer would be established.
