
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.139 Disposition of real property rights and title to real property.
######### Transfer of FSA inventory property for conservation purposes.

(c)(1) In accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, FSA may transfer, to a Federal or State agency for conservation purposes (as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section), inventory property, or an interest therein, meeting any one of the following three criteria and subject only to the homestead protection rights of all previous owners having been met.

(i) A predominance of the land being transferred has marginal value for agricultural production. This is land that NRCS has determined to be either highly erodible or generally not used for cultivation, such as soils in classes IV, V, VII or VIII of NRCS's Land Capability Classification, or

(ii) A predominance of land is environmentally sensitive. This is land that meets any of the following criteria:

(A) Wetlands, as defined in Executive Order 11990 and USDA Regulation 9500.

(B) Riparian zones and floodplains as they pertain to Executive Order 11988.

(C) Coastal barriers and zones as they pertain to the Coastal Barrier Resources Act or Coastal Zone Management Act.

(D) Areas supporting endangered and threatened wildlife and plants (including proposed and candidate species), critical habitat, or potential habitat for recovery pertaining to the Endangered Species Act.
