
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### General
######## ยง 1955.147 Sealed bid sales.

This section provides guidance on the sale of all Rural Development inventory property, except suitable FP real property which will not be sold by sealed bid. Before a sealed bid sale, the State Director will determine and document the minimum sale price acceptable. In determining a minimum sale price, the State Director will consider the length of time the property has been in inventory, previous marketing efforts, the type property involved, and potential purchasers. Program financing will be offered on sales of program and suitable property. For NP or surplus property, credit may be extended to facilitate the sale. When a group of properties is to be sold at one time, advertising may indicate that Rural Development will consider bids on an individual property or a group of properties and Rural Development will accept the bid or bids which are in the best financial interest of the Government. Credit, however, may not exceed the market value of the property nor may the term exceed the period for which the property will serve as adequate security. Sealed bids will be made on Form RD 1955-46 with any accompanying deposit in the form of cashier's check, certified check, postal or bank money order or bank draft payable to Rural Development. For program and suitable property, the minimum deposit will be the same as outlined in ยง 1955.130(e)(1) of this subpart. For NP or surplus property, the minimum deposit will be ten percent (10%). The bid will be considered delivered when actually received at the Rural Development office. All bids will be date and time stamped. Advertisements and notices will request bidders to submit their bid in a sealed envelope marked as follows:
