
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### ยง 1955.103 Definitions.
######## Beginning farmer or rancher.

A beginning farmer or rancher is an individual or entity who:

(1) Is an eligible applicant for FO loan assistance in accordance with ยง 1943.12 of subpart A of part 1943 of this chapter or ยง 1980.180 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter.

(2) Has not operated a farm or ranch, or who has operated a farm or ranch for not more than 10 years. This requirement applies to all members of an entity.

(3) Will materially and substantially participate in the operation of the farm or ranch.

(i) In the case of a loan made to an individual, individually or with the immediate family, material and substantial participation requires that the individual provide substantial day-to-day labor and management of the farm or ranch, consistent with the practices in the county or State where the farm is located.

(ii) In the case of a loan made to an entity, all members must materially and substantially participate in the operation of the farm or ranch. Material and substantial participation requires that the individual provides some amount of the management, or labor and management necessary for day-to-day activities, such that if the individual did not provide these inputs, operation of the farm or ranch would be seriously impaired.

(4) Agrees to participate in any loan assessment, borrower training, and financial management programs required by Rural Development regulations.

(5) Does not own real farm or ranch property or who, directly or through interests in family farm entities, owns real farm or ranch property, the aggregate acreage of which does not exceed 30 percent of the average farm or ranch acreage of the farms or ranches in the county where the property is located. If the farm is located in more than one county, the average farm acreage of the county where the applicant's residence is located will be used in the calculation. If the applicant's residence is not located on the farm or if the applicant is an entity, the average farm acreage of the county where the major portion of the farm is located will be used. The average county farm or ranch acreage will be determined from the most recent Census of Agriculture developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census. State Directors will publish State supplements containing the average farm or ranch acreage by county.

(6) Demonstrates that the available resources of the applicant and spouse (if any) are not sufficient to enable the applicant to enter or continue farming or ranching on a viable scale.

(7) In the case of an entity:

(i) All the members are related by blood or marriage.

(ii) All the stockholders in a corporation are qualified beginning farmers or ranchers.
