
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1955 - PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
###### Subpart C - Disposal of Inventory Property
####### ยง 1955.104 Authorities and responsibilities.
######## Redelegation of authority.

(a)Rural Development officials will redelegate authorities to the maximum extent possible, consistent with program objectives and available resources.

(1) Any authority in this subpart which is specifically provided to the Administrator or to an Assistant Administrator may only be delegated to a State Director. The State Director cannot redelegate such authority.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the State Director may redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the State Director in this subpart, unless specifically excluded, to a Program Chief, Program Specialist, or Property Management Specialist on the State Office staff.

(3) The District Director may redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the District Director in this subpart to an Assistant District Director or District Loan Specialist. Authority of District Directors in this subpart applies to Area Loan Specialists in Alaska and the Director for the Western Pacific Territories.

(4) The County Supervisor may redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the County Supervisor in this subpart to an Assistant County Supervisor, GS-7 or above, who is determined by the County Supervisor to be qualified. Authority of County Supervisors in this subpart applies to Area Loan Specialists in Alaska, Island Directors in Hawaii, the Director for the Western Pacific Territories, and Area Supervisors in the Western Pacific Territories and American Samoa.
