
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1956 - DEBT SETTLEMENT
###### Subpart B - Debt Settlement - Farm Loan Programs and Multi-Family Housing
####### ยง 1956.57 General provisions.
######## Joint debtors.

(j)Settlement may not be approved for one joint debtor unless approved for all debtors. "Joint debtors" includes all parties (individuals, partnerships, joint operators, cooperatives, corporations, estates) who are legally liable for payment of the debt.

(1) Separate and individual adjustment offers from joint debtors must be accepted and processed only as a joint offer. Joint debtors must be advised that all debtors will remain liable for the balance of the debt until all payments due under the joint offer have been made.

(2) A separate Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1956-1 will be completed by each debtor, unless the debtors are members of the same family and all necessary financial information on each debtor can be shown clearly on a single application. Separate applications will be sent to the State Office as a unit.

(3) If one debtor applies for compromise, adjustment, or cancellation, or if the debt is to be charged off, and the other debtor(s) is deceased or has received a discharge of the debt in bankruptcy, or the whereabouts of the other debtor(s) is unknown, or it is impossible or impracticable to obtain the signature of the other debtor(s), Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1956-1 or Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1956-2 (for housing loans) "Cancellation or Charge-off of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Indebtedness," will be prepared by showing at the top of the form the name of the debtor requesting settlement, following by the name of the other debtor.

For example, "John Doe, joint debtor with Bill Doe, deceased," "John Doe, joint debtor with Sam Doe, discharged in bankruptcy," "John Doe, joint debtor with Mary Doe, impossible or impracticable to obtain signature," as appropriate. In addition to the information concerning settlement of the debt by the applicant, information which justifies settlement of the debt as to the debtor(s) not joining in the application will be shown on Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1956-1, or 1956-2 for housing loans.
