
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1956 - DEBT SETTLEMENT
###### Subpart B - Debt Settlement - Farm Loan Programs and Multi-Family Housing
####### ยง 1956.66 Compromise and adjustment of nonjudgment debts.
######## FLP debts.

(a)The debt or any extension thereof on which compromise or adjustment is requested does not have to be due and payable under the terms of the note or other instrument, or because of acceleration by written notice prior to the date of application. Nonjudgment secured FLP debts may be compromised or adjusted in accordance with the following conditions:

(1) Security may be retained by the debtor if the debtor offers an amount at least equal to the current fair market value (including any crop security) less any prior lien amounts. Any remaining unsecured debt may be debt settled.

(2) Where the debtor is able to pay an amount in excess of the lump sum compromise offer, an adjustment offer must call for a lump sum payment as set out in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, plus any additional amounts the Agency determines the debtor is able to pay over a period of time not to exceed 5 years.

(3) The acceptability of a compromise or adjustment offer will be arrived at by determining and evaluating:

(i) Statement of indebtedness owed on any prior liens. Statements will be retained in the debtor's file.

(ii) Value of existing security as determined by a current appraisal made or obtained by the Agency. The appraisal will be retained in the debtor's file.

(iii) Debtor's total present income and probable sources, amount and stability of income over the next 5 years. Old age pensions, other public assistance, and veteran's disability pensions will not be considered as sources of funds for making compromise and adjustment offers.

(iv) Amount of debtor's other debts.

(v) Amount of debtor's essential family living expenses, and farm or business operation expenses necessary to continue the operation, if applicable.

(vi) Age and health when the debtor is largely depending on income from an occupation where manual labor is required.

(vii) Size of debtor's family, their ages and health.

(viii) Value of debtor's assets in relation to debts and liens of third parties. Reasonable equity in a modest nonsecurity homestead occupied by the debtor will not be considered as available for settlement. Nonsecurity property in excess of minimum family living needs which is not exempt from levy and execution should be considered in determining the debtor's ability to pay.
