
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1956 - DEBT SETTLEMENT
###### Subpart B - Debt Settlement - Farm Loan Programs and Multi-Family Housing
####### ยง 1956.70 Cancellation.
######## Debtors discharged in bankruptcy.

(3)If there is no security for the debt, debts discharged in bankruptcy shall be cancelled by use of the appropriate Agency form with the attachments noted below. No attempt will be made to obtain the debtor's signature. If the debtor has executed a new promise to pay prior to discharge and has otherwise accomplished a valid reaffirmation of the debt in accordance with advice from OGC, the debt is not discharged.

(i) Chapter 7 Bankruptcy cases will be documented with a copy of the "Discharge of Debtor" order(s) by the court for all obligors.

(ii) For debts identified as being part of an unsecured claim under Chapter 11, the cancellation will be documented with a copy of the organization plan, copy of the order by the court confirming the plan, a copy of the order completing the plan (a similar order), and an opinion by OGC that the confirming order has discharged the obligor(s) of liability to that part of the debt.

(iii) For debts identified as being part of an unsecured claim under chapters 12 or 13, the cancellation will be documented with a copy of the reorganization plan and confirmation order, as above, a copy of the order completing the plan and closing the case, and an opinion by OGC that the completion order has discharged the obligor(s) of liability to that portion of the debt.
