
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1956 - DEBT SETTLEMENT
###### Subpart B - Debt Settlement - Farm Loan Programs and Multi-Family Housing
####### ยง 1956.97 Disposition of promissory notes.

(a) Notes evidencing debts settled by completed adjustments, completed compromise with or without signature, or canceled with signature will be returned to the debtor or to the debtor's legal representative. The original and copies of notes will be stamped "Satisfied by Approved Compromise," "Satisfied by Approved Cancellation," or "Satisfied by Completed Adjustment Offer." In such cases, the security instrument(s) will be released of record according to State law.

(b) Notes evidencing debts canceled without application will be placed in the debtor's case folder and disposed of pursant to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Instruction 2033-A (available in any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 office). However, if the debtor requests the notes, they may be stamped "Satisfied By Approved Cancellation" and returned.

(c) Notes evidencing charged off debts will be retained in the servicing office and will not be stamped or returned to the debtor. They will be destroyed six years after charged off pursuant to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Instruction 2033-A (available in any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 office).

(d) In case of a transfer of security with assumption for less than the debt, the promissory note will be attached to the assumption agreement covered by the note and kept in the transferee's file.
