
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1956 - DEBT SETTLEMENT
###### Subpart C - Debt Settlement - Community and Business Programs
####### ยง 1956.124 Compromise and adjustment.
######## Debtor's ability to pay.

(b)In evaluating the debtor's settlement application, it is essential that reliable information be obtained in sufficient detail to assure that the offer accurately reflects the debtor's ability to pay. The debtor's income, expenses, and nonsecurity assets are critical factors in determining the type of settlement and the amount which the debtor can reasonably be expected to offer. Critical information should include the following:

(1) The debtor's total present income from all sources will be determined. In addition, careful consideration will be given to the probable sources, amount, and stability of income to be received over a reasonable period of years. For individuals, public welfare assistance and pensions, including old age pensions and pensions received by veterans for pensionable disabilities will not be considered as sources of funds with which to make compromise and adjustment offers.

(2) The debtor's operation and maintenance expenses, and, in the case of individuals, probable living expenses.

(3) The priority of payments on debts to third parties.

(4) When the debtor is largely dependent on income from an occupation in which manual labor is required, age and health of the individual are vital factors in determining the ability to pay. The number in the debtor's family, their ages and condition of health, will also be weighed in determining the ability to pay. However, when the debtor's income is from investments, business enterprises, or management efforts, age and health of both individual and family are of less importance.

(5) The value of the debtor's assets in relation to debts and liens of third parties is important in determining the debtor's ability to pay. It is recognized that debtors must retain a reasonable equity in essential nonsecurity property in order to continue normal operations and, in the case of an individual, to meet family living expenses over a period of years. Under this policy a reasonable equity in a modest nonsecurity homestead occupied by the debtor, whether or not exempt from levy and execution will not be considered as available for offer in settlement. Nonsecurity property which is in excess of minimum business and/or family living needs and which is not exempt from levy and execution should be considered when determining the debtor's ability to pay.
