
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1956 - DEBT SETTLEMENT
###### Subpart C - Debt Settlement - Community and Business Programs
####### ยง 1956.110 Joint debtors.

Settlements may not be approved for one joint debtor unless approved for all debtors. Joint debtors includes all parties, individuals, and organizations, who are legally liable for payment of the debt.

(a) Individual settlement offers from joint debtors can be accepted and processed only as a joint offer. A separate Form RD 1956-1 will be completed by each debtor unless the debtors are members of the same family and all necessary financial information on each debtor can be shown clearly on a single application.

(b) If one of the joint debtors is deceased or has received a discharge of the debt in bankruptcy, or if the whereabouts of one of the debtors is unknown, or it is otherwise impossible or impractical to obtain the signature of the debtor, the application for settlement may be accepted without that debtor's signature if it contains adequate information on each of the debtors to justify settlement of the debt as to each of the debtors. The name of the debtor requesting settlement will be shown at the top of Form RD 1956-1 followed by name and status of the other debtor. For example, "John Doe, joint debtor with Jane Doe, deceased."

(c) Joint debtors must be advised in writing that all debtors will remain liable for the balance of the debt until any payment(s) due under the joint offer have been made.
