
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.13 Notification to potential purchasers.

(a) In States without a Central Filing System (CFS), all Farm Credit Programs borrowers prior to loan closing or prior to any servicing actions which require taking a lien on farm products, such as crops or livestock, must provide the names and addresses of potential purchasers. A written notice will be sent by the Agency, certified mail, return receipt requested, to these potential purchasers to protect the Government's security interest.

(1) The name and address of the debtor.

(2) The name and address of any secured party.

(3) The Social Security number or tax ID number of the debtor.

(4) A description of the farm products given as security by the debtor, including the amount of such products where applicable, the crop year, the county in which the products are located, and a reasonable description of the farm products.

(5) Any payment obligation imposed on the potential purchaser by the secured party as a condition for waiver or release of lien. The original or a copy of the written notice also must be sent to the purchaser within 1 year before the sale of the farm products. The written notice will lapse on either the expiration period of the Financing Statement or the transmission of a letter signed by the County Supervisor and showing that the statement has lapsed or the borrower has performed all obligations to the Agency.

(b) Lists of borrowers whose chattels or crops are subject to an Agency lien may be made available, upon request, to business firms in a trade area, such as sale barns and warehouses, that buy chattels or crops or sell them for a commission. These lists will exclude those borrowers whose only crops for sale require FSA Farm Programs (formerly ASCS) marketing cards. The list is furnished only as a convenience and may be incomplete or inaccurate as of any particular date.

(1)-(2) [Reserved]
