
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.17 Disposal of chattel security, use of proceeds and release of lien.
######## General.

(a)(1) The borrower must account for all security. When the borrower sells security, the property and proceeds remain subject to the Agency's lien until the lien is released. All checks, drafts, or money orders which the borrower receives for the sale of collateral listed on Form RD 1962-1 (available in any Agency office) must be payable to both the borrower and the Agency unless all Agency loan installments for the period of the form have been paid including any past-due installments. If the borrower disposes of collateral or uses the proceeds in a way not listed on Form RD 1962-1, the borrower will have violated the loan agreement, and the Government will not release its security interest in the collateral. Releases of sales proceeds will be terminated when the borrower's accounts are accelerated.

(2) Section 1924.56 requires that there must always be a current Form RD 1962-1 in the file of a borrower with a loan secured by chattels. If a borrower asks the Agency to release proceeds from the sale of chattels and there is a current Form RD 1962-1 in the file, the request will be approved or disapproved in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. If the borrower's request for release is denied, the borrower must be given attachment 1 of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter, a written explanation of the reasons for the denial, and the opportunity for an appeal in accordance with 7 CFR part 780. Immediately upon determining that the borrower does not have a current Form RD 1962-1 in the file, the County Supervisor will immediately contact the borrower to develop one.

(3) If the borrower requests a change(s) to Form RD 1962-1, and the County Supervisor can approve the change(s), the borrower and the County Supervisor will initial and date each change in accordance with item (6) in the Forms Manual Insert (FMI) for Form RD 1962-1. The form will be marked "Revised" and the borrower will be notified in writing confirming that the change(s) has been approved.
