
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### § 1962.16 Accounting by County Supervisor.
######## Agency responsibilities.

(a)Chattel security will be inspected annually except in cases where the Agency official has justified in assessment or analysis review that no undue risk exists. An FO borrower who has been current with the Agency and who has provided chattels as additional security is an example of a case where an inspection may not be needed. All inspections will be recorded in the running record of the borrower's file. More frequent inspections should be made for delinquent borrowers or borrowers that have been indebted for less then 1 full crop year. The Agency official will discuss the provisions of §§ 1962.17 and 1962.18 and assist the borrower in completing the form. If a borrower does not plan to dispose of any chattel security, the form should be completed to show this and should be signed. When the Agency official has other contacts with the borrower, the official should also check for dispositions and acquisitions of security. Changes will be recorded on the form, dated and initialed by the borrower and the agency official. The purpose of all inspections is to:

(1) Verify that the borrower possesses all the security,

(2) Determine security is properly maintained, and

(3) Supplement security instruments.
