
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.17 Disposal of chattel security, use of proceeds and release of lien.
######## Release of liens.

(c)(1) Liens will be released by the County Supervisor when security is sold, exchanged or consumed, provided the conditions set out on Form RD 1962-1 and in this subpart are met.

(2) Junior Agency liens on chattels and crops serving as security for Agency loans can be released when such property has no present or prospective security value or enforcement of the Agency lien would be ineffectual or uneconomical. The following information will be documented in the running case record:

(i) The present market value of the chattels or crops, as determined by the County Supervisor, on which the Agency has a valueless junior lien.

(ii) The names of the prior lienholders, amount secured by each prior lien, and the present market value of any property which serves as security for the amount. The value of all property which serves as security for amounts owed to prior lienholders must be considered to determine whether the junior Agency lien has any present or prospective value.

(3) Liens obtained through a mutual mistake can be released. The reasons for the release must be documented in the running case record.

(4) Liens can be released when there is no evidence of an existing indebtedness secured by the lien in the records of the Agency, County, State, or Finance Office.

(5) Liens on separate items of chattels can be released to another creditor for any authorized Farm Credit Programs loan purpose when it has been determined by a current appraisal that the value of the remaining security is substantially greater than the remaining Agency debt.
