
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.17 Disposal of chattel security, use of proceeds and release of lien.
######## Use of Form RD 1962-1.

(b)(1) County Supervisors are authorized to approve or disapprove dispositions of Agency chattel security in accordance with this subpart. The County Supervisor, with the assistance of the borrower, will complete Form RD 1962-1 in accordance with the FMI (available in any Agency office) to show how, when, and to whom the borrower will sell, exchange, or consume security and use sale proceeds (include milk sale proceeds). Government payments, crop insurance and insurance proceeds derived from the loss of security will also be accounted for on Form RD 1962-1. This includes, for example, sale proceeds on hand and crops in storage. Only the proceeds from the sale of normal income security can be used to pay essential family and farm operation expenses. Proceeds from the sale of basic security will not be used for essential family living and farm operating expenses. In addition to payment of prior liens, basic security can only be released for the purposes listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) through (b)(2)(vii). When proceeds from the disposition of normal income security are to be used to pay essential family living or farm operating expenses, County Supervisors must approve the disposition. Any disposition of basic or normal income security must be recorded on Form RD 1962-1. However, the borrower is responsible for providing the County Supervisor with the necessary information to update the Farm and Home Plan and Form RD 1962-1.

(2) Under all circumstances, sales proceeds must be remitted to creditors with liens on the proceeds, in order of priority of those liens. Proceeds which are released by a prior lienholder or which are in excess of the amount due to prior lienholder and which come to the Agency can be used as follows:

(i) The Form RD 1962-1 must provide for releases of normal income security so that the borrower can pay essential family living and farm operating expenses. However, proceeds from the sale of basic security will not be used to pay essential family living or farm operating expenses.

(ii) Essential expenses are those which are basic, crucial or indispensable. The following items are guidelines of what normally may be considered essential family living and farm operating expenses:

(iii) All of the items in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section may not always be considered essential for every family and farming operation. County Supervisors must consider the individual borrower's operation, what is typical for that type of operation in the area administered by the County Supervisor, and what would be an efficient method of production considering the borrower's resources. County Supervisors will refer to exhibit E of this subpart for guidance in determining whether an expense will be considered essential and the amount of proceeds which should be released. When the borrower and County Supervisor cannot agree that an expense is essential, the County Supervisor will notify the borrower, in writing, of why the requested release was denied, including why it is not basic, crucial or indispensable to the family and/or the farming operation and will give the borrower an opportunity to appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter and paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(5) of this section.

(iv) Proceeds can be applied to the Agency debt.

(v) Proceeds can be used to purchase property better suited to the borrower's need if the Agency will acquire a lien on the new property. The new property, together with any proceeds applied to the Agency indebtedness, will have a value to the Agency at least equal to the value of the lien formerly held by the Agency on the old security.

(vi) Proceeds can be used to preserve the security because of a natural disaster or other severe catastrophe, when the need for funds cannot be met by other means or with an Agency loan or an Agency loan cannot be made in time to prevent the borrower and Agency from suffering a substantial loss.

(vii) Property can be exchanged, with prior Agency approval and in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section, for property which is better suited to the borrower's needs if the Agency will acquire a lien on the new property, at least equal in value to the lien held on the property exchanged.

(viii) Property can be consumed by the borrower as follows:

(A) Livestock can be used by the borrower's family for subsistence.

(B) If crops serve as security and usually would be marketed, the County Supervisor can allow such crops to be fed to livestock, provided, this is preferable to direct marketing and also provided that the Agency obtains a lien (or assignment) on the livestock and livestock products at least equal to the lien on the crops.

(3) The borrower must maintain records of dispositions of property and the actual use of proceeds and must make these records available to the Agency at the end of the period covered by the Form RD 1962-1, or when requested by the Agency. The County Supervisor will complete the "Actual" columns on that form, indicating approval or disapproval, making sure that the dispositions of property and uses of proceeds were as agreed upon. If they were not, the County Supervisor will take the actions required by ยง 1962.18 of this subpart. On the form, the County Supervisor will note approval or disapproval of each disposition.

(4) If, for any sale, the amount of proceeds actually received is above or below the amount of proceeds planned to be received as shown on Form RD 1962-1, the borrower will immediately notify the County Supervisor. If the borrower sells security to a purchaser not listed on the Form RD 1962-1, the borrower must immediately notify the County Supervisor of what property has been sold and of the name and business address of the purchaser. Such notification may be by telephone to the County Office, by letter, by visit to the County Office, or any other method the borrower chooses.
