
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.17 Disposal of chattel security, use of proceeds and release of lien.
######## Processing the release of chattel security.,work copy

(d)(1) If the borrower or an interested third party requests a release of specific items which must be recorded under the UCC or chattel mortgage laws, Form RD462-12, "Statements of Continuation, Partial Release, Assignments, etc.," Form RD 460-1, "Partial Release," or other Forms approved by OGC and required by State statute will be used. Care must be used to be sure that only specific items are released; for example, if a borrower requests a release of five cows, make sure that not all the cattle are released from the Agency lien. When specific items are listed on the security agreement, the County Supervisor should record the disposition on theof the security agreement and on Form RD 1962-1.

(2) Assignments and consent to payment of proceeds will be processed under subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter and recorded on Form RD 1962-1.

(i) When it is necessary to temporarily amend Form RD 441-18, "Consent to Payment of Proceeds From Sale of Farm Products," or Form RD 441-25, "Assignment of Proceeds From the Sale of Dairy Products and Release of Security Interest," Form RD 462-9, "Temporary Amendment of Consent to Payment of Proceeds From Sale of Farm Products," will be used. All amendments of assignment agreements will be made on forms approved by OGC. The State Director will issue a State Supplement with the advice of OGC and prior approval of the National Office on the use of other forms. The original form after completion will be forwarded directly to the person or firm making the payment against which the assignment is effective, and a copy will be kept in the borrower's case file. All amendments of assignment agreements will be approved and recorded on Form RD 1962-1. Conditions of this section must be met. The County Supervisor will see that payments are made in accordance with the original consent when the amendment period expires. Normally, a temporary amendment will not exceed a six month period.

(ii) When the Agency is not expecting payment from the proceeds of a product on which it has a lien but the purchaser of the product inquires about payment, a letter should be written to the purchaser as follows:
