
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.17 Disposal of chattel security, use of proceeds and release of lien.
######## must,must,must

(5) If a borrower wants to dispose of chattel security which is not listed on Form RD 1962-1 or wants to dispose of chattel security in a way not listed in the "How" section or wants to use proceeds in a way not listed in the "Use of Proceeds" section on Form RD 1962-1, the borrower must obtain the Agency consent before the disposition or before the proceeds are used. The Agencygive consent for the release of normal income security if the change is necessary for the borrower to meet essential family living and farm operating expenses. The Agencyalso give consent if the conditions set out on the form and in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met. The borrower may obtain prior consent by telephoning the county office, by letter, by visiting the county office, or by any other method the borrower chooses. When revisions are agreed to over the telephone, the County Supervisorrevise the Form RD 1962-1 contained in the borrower's case file, initial and date the change, and mark the form "Revised." The County Supervisor will then either write to the borrower and send a copy of the "Revised" form to the borrower asking the borrower to date and initial the change and return the form to the county office, or the County Supervisor will ask the borrower to date and initial the change the next time the borrower is in the county office. Changes that would result in a major change (examples of major changes are: Feeder pig to sow operation, cow/calf to feeder steer operation, dairy to row crop, etc.) in a borrower's operation will always require a visit to the county office so that the County Supervisor and the borrower can complete a new farm and home plan and revise Form RD 1962-1. The County Supervisor will be responsible for determining if the requested change is major or not. If a revision cannot be agreed upon, see ยง 1924.56 of subpart B of part 1924 of this chapter.
