
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.19 Claims against Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC).
######## County Office action.

(a)(1) Claims will not be filed with CCC until it is determined that the amount involved cannot be collected from the borrower. Therefore, after preliminary notice is given of this fact to CCC by the State Director, the County Supervisor will make immediate demand on the borrower for the amount of the CCC loan or the portion of it which should have been applied to the borrower's account. If payment is made, the State Director will be notified.

(i) If payment is not made, the County Supervisor will determine whether or not the case should be liquidated in accordance with ยง 1962.40 of this subpart. Any liquidation action will be taken immediately. If the borrower has no property from which recovery can be made through liquidation or, if after liquidation, an unpaid balance remains on the indebtedness secured by the commodity pledged or sold to CCC, the County Supervisor will make a full report to the State Director on Form RD 455-1, "Request for Legal Action," with a recommendation that a claim be filed againt CCC. However, if the indebtedness is paid through liquidation action, the State Director will be notified by memorandum.

(ii) If the facts do not warrant liquidation action, the State Director will be notified, and a recommendation will be made that no claim be filed against CCC.

(2) On receiving information from the State Director that CCC has called the borrower's loan, the County Supervisor will act to protect Rural Development's interest with respect to the commodity if CCC is repaid.
