
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.29 Payment of fees and insurance premiums.
######## Fees.

(a)(1) Security instruments. Borrowers must pay statutory fees for filing or recording financing statements or other security instruments (including Form RD 462-12, or other renewal statements) and any notary fees for executing these instruments. They also must pay costs of obtaining lien search reports needed in properly servicing security as outlined in this subpart. Whenever possible, borrowers should pay these fees directly to the officials giving the service. When cash is accepted by Rural Development employees to pay these fees, Form RD 440-12, "Acknowledgment of Payment for Recording, Lien Search and Releasing Fees," will be executed. If the borrower cannot pay the fees, or if there are fees referred to in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section that must be paid by Rural Development, the County Supervisor may pay them as a petty purchase or as the bill of a creditor of Rural Development in accordance with Rural Development Instructions 2024-E, copies of which are available in any Rural Development office.

(2) Satisfactions. The borrower must pay fees for filing or recording satisfactions or termination statements unless a State supplement based on State law requires Rural Development to pay them.

(3) Notary fees. Rural Development will pay fees for notary service for executing releases, subordinations, and related documents for and on behalf of Rural Development if the service cannot be obtained without cost.
