
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.34 Transfer of chattel security and EO property and assumption of debts.
######## Transfer to ineligibles.

(b)Transfer of the chattel security and EO property to a transferee who is not eligible for the kind of loan being assumed may be approved, provided:

(1) It is in the Agency's financial interest to approve the transfer of security or EO property and assumption of the debts rather than to liquidate the security or EO property immediately.

(2) The transferee assumes the total outstanding balance of the Agency debt, or an amount equal to the present market value of the security or EO property as determined by the County Supervisor, less any prior liens, if the value is less than the entire debts.

(3) Agency debts assumed will be repaid in amortized installments not to exceed 5 years using Form FmHA 1965-13. The Farm Credit Programs NP interest rate for chattel property set forth in a National Office issuance, in effect at the time of loan approval, will be charged. Any deferred interest not paid by the time the transfer takes place must be added to the principal balance. The transferred property, including EO property, will be subject to any existing Agency lien. In the absence of an existing Agency lien, new lien instruments will be executed.

(4) The transferee can repay the Agency in accordance with the assumption agreement and can legally enter into the contract.

(5) The requirements found in Exhibit M to Subpart G of Part 1940 of this chapter are met.

(6) The transferee has never been liable for a previous Farm Loan Programs (FLP) loan or loan guarantee which was reduced or terminated in a manner that resulted in a loss to the Government.
