
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.34 Transfer of chattel security and EO property and assumption of debts.
######## Transfer to eligibles.

(a)Transfers of chattel security and EO property to a transferee who is eligible for the kind of loan being assumed or who will become eligible after the transfer may be approved, provided:

(1) The transferee assumes the total outstanding balance of the Rural Development debts or that portion of the outstanding balance equal to the present market value of the chattel security or EO property, less any prior liens, if the property is worth less than the entire debt.

(2) Generally the debts assumed will be paid in accordance with the rates and terms of the existing notes or assumption agreements. Form RD 460-9, "Assumption Agreement (Same Terms-Eligible Transferee)," will be used. Any delinquency and any deferred interest outstanding will be scheduled for payment on or before the date the transfer is closed. If the existing loan repayment period is extended, the debt being assumed may be rescheduled using Form RD 1965-13, "Assumption Agreement (Farmer Programs Loans)." The new repayment period may not exceed that for a new loan of the same type and the current interest rate for such loans will be charged. If any deferred interest is not paid by the time the transfer takes place, it must be added to the principal balance and the loan must be assumed at new rates and terms. Upon request of an applicant assuming a loan at new rates and terms and/or an applicant eligible to receive limited resource rates and terms, the interest rate charged by Rural Development will be the lower of the interest rates in effect at the time of loan approval or loan closing. If the applicant does not indicate a choice, the loan will be closed at the rate in effect at the time of loan approval. Interest rates are specified in Exhibit B of RD Instruction 440.1 (available in any RD office) for the type assistance involved.

(3) The transfer of EM actual loss loans, or EM loans made before September 12, 1975, will be made as provided under paragraph (b) of this section. However, when one or more of the borrowers or jointly obligated partners or joint operators withdraw from the operation and those remaining desire to assume the total indebtedness and continue the operation, a transfer to the remaining borrowers, partners, or joint operators may be made as an eligible transferee.
