
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.34 Transfer of chattel security and EO property and assumption of debts.

Chattel and EO property may be transferred to eligible or ineligible transferees who agree to assume the outstanding loan, subject to the provisions set out in this section. A transfer and assumption may also be made when one or more of the borrowers or the former spouse and co-obligor of a divorced borrower withdraws from the operation or dies. The transfer of accounts secured by real estate or both real estate and chattels will be processed under Subpart A of Part 1965 of this chapter. The transferor (borrower) must be sent Attachment 1 of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter as soon as the borrower contacts the County Supervisor inquiring about a transfer. In accordance with the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99-198) after December 23, 1985, if a loan is being transferred and assumed by an eligible or ineligible transferee, and if an individual or any member, stockholder, partner, or joint operator of an entity transferee is convicted under Federal or State law of planting, cultivating, growing, producing, harvesting or storing a controlled substance (see 21 CFR Part 1308, which is Exhibit C of Subpart A of Part 1941of this chapter and is available in any Rural Development office, for the definition of "controlled substance") prior to the approval of the transfer and assumption in any crop year, the individual or entity shall be ineligible for a transfer and assumption of a loan for the crop year in which the individual or member, stockholder, partner, or joint operator of the entity was convicted and the four succeeding crop years. Transferee applicants will attest on Form RD 410-1, "Application for RD Services," that as individuals or that its members, if an entity, have not been convicted of such crime after December 23, 1985. A decision to reject an application for transfer and assumption for this reason is not appealable.
