
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.40 Liquidation.
######## Farm Loan Programs loan cases.

(2)In Farm Loan Programs loan cases, borrowers who are 90 days past due on their payments must receive exhibit A with attachments 1 and 2 or attachments 1, 3, and 4 of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter in cases involving nonmonetary default. The County Supervisor will send these forms to the borrower as soon as a decision is made to liquidate. The procedures set out in subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter shall be followed and any appeal must be concluded before any liquidation action (including termination of releases of sales proceeds) is taken. If the borrower fails to return attachment 2 of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter and a preliminary application within 60 days, the County Supervisor will send attachments 9 and 10 or 9-A and 10-A, as appropriate, of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter. If the borrower fails to return attachments 4, 6, 6-A, 10, or 10-A of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter within 60 days, the borrower's account will be accelerated in accordance with ยง 1955.15(d)(2) of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter and paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. The County Supervisor will then attempt to repossess the security in accordance with ยง 1962.42 of this subpart. If this is not possible, the case will be referred for civil action in accordance with ยง 1962.49 of this subpart. Unmatured installments will be accelerated as follows:

(i) The District Director will accelerate all unmatured installments by using exhibits D, E, or E-1 of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter except in cases referred to OGC for civil action, if the notice has previously been given.

(ii) Exhibits D, E, or E-1 of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter will be sent to the last known address of each obligor, with a copy to the Finance Office in those cases referred to OGC for civil action. County Office and Finance Office loan records will be adjusted to mature the entire indebtedness only.
