
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.40 Liquidation.
######## Protective advances.

(e)(1) After attachments 1 and 2 or 1, 3, and 4 of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter have been sent and if security is in danger of loss or deterioration, the State Director will protect Government's interest and approve protective advances in payment of:

(i) Delinquent taxes or assessments that constitute prior liens which would be paid ahead of the Agency under ยง 1962.44(a) of this subpart.

(ii) Premiums on insurance essential to protect Rural Development's interest, and

(iii) Other costs including transportation necessary to protect or preserve the security.

(2) However, such advances may not be made unless the amount advanced becomes a part of the debt secured by the Agency's lien, or is for expenses of administration of estates or for litigation. If a case is in the hands of the U.S. Attorney, such advances may not be made without the U.S. Attorney's concurrence. Moreover, such advances may not be made in any case to pay expenses incurred by a U.S. Marshal or other similar official such as a local sheriff. However, if the official seizes the property and delivers it to the Agency for sale by the Agency, costs incurred by the Agency after delivery to the Agency will be paid.

(3) The County Supervisor will submit a report on the need for such advances to the State Director, including:

(i) Borrower's County Office case file;

(ii) Current lien search report;

(iii) Statement of the type and value of the property and of the circumstances which may result in the loss or deterioration of such property; and

(iv) A recommendation as to whether or not the advance should be approved.

(4) [Reserved]

(f) When a borrower's security property is liquidated voluntarily or involuntarily and there is an unpaid balance on the account, the County Supervisor will meet with the borrower within 30 days to assist the borrower in developing a debt settlement offer in accordance with subpart B of part 1956 of this chapter.
