
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.42 Repossession, care, and sale of chattel security or EO property by the County Supervisor.
######## Notice.

(5)(i) Notice of public or private sale of repossessed property when required will be given to the borrower and to any party who has filed a financing statement or who is known by the County Supervisor to have a security interest in the property, except as set forth below. The notice will be delivered or mailed so that it will reach the borrower and any lienholder at least 5 days (or longer time if specified by a State supplement) before the time of any public sale or the time after which any private sale will be held. Form RD 1955-41, "Notice of Sale," may be used for public or private sales.

(A) Notice of the borrower or lienholder is not required when the property is sold under Form RD 455-4 because the parties are placed on notice when they execute the form. When the sale involves only collateral which is perishable, will decline quickly in value, or is a type customarily sold on a recognized market, notice is not required but may be given if time permits to maintain good public relations.

(B) Notice only to lienholder is required when repossessed property is sold at private sale and the borrower executes Form RD 455-11.

(C) If the property is to be sold under a chattel mortgage, the manner of notice will be set forth in a State supplement or on an individual case basis.

(ii) Notice of Internal Revenue Service (IRS). If a Federal tax lien notice has been filed in the local records more than 30 days before the sale of the repossessed security, notice to the District Director of IRS must be given at least 25 days before the sale. It should be given by sending a copy of Form RD 1955-41 and a copy of the filed Notice of Federal Tax Lien (Form IRS 668). If the security is perishable, the full 25 days' notice must be given to the District Director by registered or certified mail or by personal service before the sale. Also, the sale proceeds must be held for 30 days after the sale so that they may be claimed by IRS on the basis of its tax lien priority. In such perishable property cases, the proceeds or an amount large enough to pay the IRS tax lien will be forwarded to the Finance Office with a notation "Hold in suspense 30 days because of Federal Tax Lien." OGC will advise the Finance Office about disposing of the funds.
