
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.42 Repossession, care, and sale of chattel security or EO property by the County Supervisor.
######## Advertising.

(6)(i) Private sales and sales at established public auctions will be advertised by Rural Development only if required by a State supplement based on State law.

(ii) Other public sales, whether under power of sale in the lien instrument or under Form RD 455-4, will be widely publicized to assure large attendance and a fair sale by one or more of the following methods customarily used in the area.

(A) The sale may be advertised by posting or distributing handbills, posting Form RD 1955-41, or a revision of it approved by OGC to meet State law requirements, or by a combination of these methods. The length of time and place of giving notice will be covered by a State supplement.

(B) Advertising in newspapers or spot advertisting on local radio or TV stations may be used depending on the amount of property to be sold and the cost in relation to the value of the property, the customs in the area, and State law requirements. When newspaper advertising is required, a State supplement will indicate the types of newspapers to be used, the number and times of insertions of the advertisement, and the form of notice of sale. All advertising must contain non-discrimination clauses.
