
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.46 Deceased borrowers.
######## Reporting.

(a)The borrower's case files including Form 455-17 will be forwarded promptly to the State Director for use in deciding the action to take if any of the following conditions exist (When it is necessary to send an incomplete Form RD 455-17, any additional information which may affect the State Director's decision will be sent as soon as available on a supplemental Form RD 455-17 or in a memorandum.):

(1) Probate or other administration proceedings have been started or are contemplated.

(2) The debts owed to the Agency are inadequately secured and the state has other assets from which collection could be made.

(3) The Agency's security has a value in excess of the indebtedness it secures and the deceased obligor owes other debts to the Agency which are unsecured or inadequately secured.

(4) The County Supervisor recommends continuation with a survivor who is not liable for the indebtedness or recommends transfer to, and assumption by, another party.

(5) The County Supervisor recommends, but does not have authority to approve liquidation.

(6) The County Supervisor wants advice on servicing the case.
