
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.46 Deceased borrowers.
######## Priority of claims.

(d)(1) Each secured claim will take its relative lien priority to the extent of the value of the property serving as security for it. These claims include those secured by mortgages, deeds of trust, landlord's contractual liens, and other contractual liens or security instruments executed by the borrower or real or personal property. However, tax, judgment, attachment, garnishment, laborer's, mechanic's, materialmen's, landlord's statutory liens, and other noncontractual lien claims may or may not be secured claims. Therefore, if any noncontractual claims are allowed as secured claims and the Agency claim is not paid in full, the advice of OGC will be obtained as to whether they constitute secured claims and as to their relative priorities.

(2) Unsecured claims will be handled as follows:

(i) The remaining assets of the estate, including any value of security for more than the amount of the secured claims against it, are to be applied first to payment of administration costs and charges against the estate and second to unsecured debts of the deceased.

(ii) If the total of the remaining assets in the estate being administered is not enough to pay all administration costs, charges against the estate, and unsecured debts of the deceased, the Government's unsecured claims against the remaining assets will have priority over all other unsecured claims, except the costs of administration and charges against the estate. Under such circumstances unsecured claims are payable in the following order of priority:

(A) Costs of administration and charges against the estate unless under State law they are payable after the Government's unsecured claims. Such costs and charges include costs of administration of the estate, allowable funeral expenses, allowances of minor children and surviving spouse, and dower and curtesy rights.

(B) The Government's unsecured claims.

(3) A State supplement will be issued as needed taking into consideration 31 U.S.C. ยง 3713 lien waivers and subordinations, and notice and other statutory provisions which affect lien priorities.
