
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.42 Repossession, care, and sale of chattel security or EO property by the County Supervisor.
######## Risk of injury.,and

(d)If a farmer program loan borrower has abandoned securitythe security is in danger of being substantially harmed or damaged, the County Supervisor will attempt to repossess the security as explained in paragraph (a) of this section. Then the County Supervisor will send the borrower and all cosigners on the note attachments 1, 3 and 4 of exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter. The security will be cared for as explained in paragraph (b) of this section until all appeal rights have been given and any appeal has been concluded. When the appeal process is concluded, the security will be returned to the borrower or sold in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, depending on the outcome of any appeal. The County Supervisor will document the abandonment and the danger of substantial damage in the borrower's case file. In the case of livestock, abandonment occurs if a borrower stops caring for the animals, as determined by the County Supervisor. However, an independent third party (not a Rural Developmnet employee) must determine that livestock is in danger of substantial damage. Protective advances may be made in accordance with ยง 1962.40(e) of this subpart.
