
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.46 Deceased borrowers.
######## Special servicing of deceased EO borrower cases.

(h)If the EO loan is secured, all paragraphs in this section will be followed. If the EO loan is unsecured, paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section will be followed along with the following requirements.

(1) An individual who is liable for the indebtedness of the deceased borrower and wishes to continue with the EO debt and the EO property, may do so in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(2) A surviving member of the deceased borrower's family, a joint operator with the deceased borrower, a relative, or other individual who is not liable for the EO debt who desires to continue with the farming or other operation may do so in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section. This individual must execute a loan agreement in addition to the assumption agreement and secure the EO debt with a lien on the remaining EO property when title to the property is vested in the individual and the County Supervisor determines that security is necessary to protect the interests of the deceased borrower's family or the Agency.

(3) If no individual listed in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section wishes to continue, but a member of the borrower's family turns over to the Agency the EO property in which the estate has an interest and which is not essential for minimum family living needs, the County Supervisor will take possession of EO property and sell it in accordance with ยง 1962.42 of this Subpart. If this cannot be done, or if real property is involved, the case will be referred to OGC. If the property is sold, notice will be delivered to any of the borrower's heirs who are in possession of the property and to any administrator or executor of the borrower's estate.
