
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.46 Deceased borrowers.
######## Liquidation of security.

(f)When the County Supervisor determines that the account of a deceased borrower is in monetary or nonmonetary default, and liquidation is necessary because no survivor or third party has applied to assume the borrower's the Agency loan, chattel security and real estate security will be liquidated promptly in accordance with this subpart and subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter. Before liquidation, the notices required by subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter will be sent to the executor of the estate and/or other appropriate person(s) or entity(ies) as advised by OGC. If a suvivor(s) or heir(s) who will continue with the borrower's operation applies for servicing, the Agency will determine whether these individuals meet the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section. If a third party who will not continue with the borrower's operation applies for servicing, the requirements of ยง 1962.34 of this subpart, or ยง 1965.47 of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter, as applicable, must be met. To qualify for servicing, the eligibility and feasibility requirements in ยง 1951.909 of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter must also be met. However, the borrower's estate is not eligible for servicing. After the provisions of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter have been complied with, and the opportunity to appeal has expired, the State Director will request OGC to effect collection if the proceeds from the sale of security are insufficient to pay in full the indebtedness owed to the Agency and other assets are available in the estate or in the hands of heirs.
