
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.47 Bankruptcy and insolvency.
######## Borrower files bankruptcy.

(a)When the Agency becomes aware that a Farm Loan Programs borrower has filed for protection under Title 11 of the United States Code (bankruptcy), the borrower and the borrower's attorney, if any, will be notified in writing of the borrower's remaining servicing options.

(1) If the borrower wishes to apply for servicing options remaining, the borrower, or the borrower's attorney on behalf of the borrower, must sign and return the appropriate response form, or similar written request for servicing, and any forms or information as requested by the Agency, within 60 days from the date the borrower or the borrower's attorney received the notification, or the time remaining from a previous notification that was suspended when the borrower filed bankruptcy, whichever is greater.

(2) The Agency will consider a request for servicing options to be an acknowledgment that the Agency will not be interfering with any rights or protections under the Bankruptcy Code and its automatic stay provisions.

(3) The Agency's processing of any request for servicing may include consideration of primary and preservation loan servicing options, notification of the Agency's decision on the request or application for servicing, mediation, and holding of any meetings or appeals requested by the borrower.

(4) If court approval is required for the borrower to exercise these servicing rights, it will be the borrower or the borrower's attorney's responsibility to obtain that approval.

(5) If a plan is confirmed before servicing and any appeal is completed under 7 CFR part 11, the Agency will complete the servicing or appeals process and may consent to a post-confirmation modification of the plan if it is consistent with the Bankruptcy Code and 7 CFR part 1951, subpart S, as appropriate.

(6) In chapter 7 cases, the Agency will not provide primary loan servicing to a borrower discharged in bankruptcy unless the borrower reaffirms the entire Agency debt. If the chapter 7 debtor obtains the permission of the court and reaffirms the debt, the loan servicing application will be processed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1951, subpart S. If the borrower reaffirms the Agency debt in order to be considered for restructuring but is later denied restructuring, the borrower may revoke the reaffirmation subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. No reaffirmation is necessary for any discharged chapter 7 borrower to be eligible for preservation loan servicing in accordance with 7 CFR part 1951, subpart S.
