
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.49 Civil and criminal cases.
######## Actions on cases referred to OGC.

(d)When a civil case is referred to OGC, the State Director will notify the County Supervisor of the referral and will return the County Office case file when it is no longer needed. The State Director will also prepare and distribute Form RD 1951-6 according to the FMI. The Rural Development field office will process the descriptive code via the Rural Development field office terminal system. This will flag the borrower's account indicating court action is pending (CAP). After notice of the referral is received by the County Supervisor, no collection or servicing action will be taken except upon specific instructions from the State Director or OGC. However, when a borrower voluntarily proposes to make a payment on an account, the County Supervisor will accept the collection unless notice has been received that the case has been referred to the U.S. Attorney for civil action. The County Supervisor will immediately notify OGC directly by memorandum, with a copy sent to the State Director, of any collections received. The County Supervisor also will notify the State Director and OGC of any developments which may affect a case which has been referred to OGC.
