
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.49 Civil and criminal cases.
######## State Office actions.

(3)(i) upon receipt of Form RD 455-1 and, when applicable, Form RD 455-2, the State Director will analyze each form to determine if all of the necessary information is documented and, if not, whether an appropriate effort was made to obtain the information. If all the necessary information is not documented, the State Director will return the case and request the County Supervisor to obtain the information to complete Forms RD 455-1 and 455-2. The State Director may assign any qualified Rural Development employee to help a County Supervisor obtain the information necessary to complete the reports. After diligent efforts, if Rural Development employees are unable to obtain the additional information, the case will be returned to the State Office with an explanation of why the information is unavailable.

(ii) After all of the pertinent information available has been obtained, the State Director will refer the case to OGC for civil action, if referral is required under the policy expressed in this section. If such referral is not required, the State Director will set forth in Item 19 of Form RD 455-1 the basis for the determination not to refer the case and instructions for follow-up servicing action. The State Director will not recommend a third-party conversion claim to the OGC if more than one year has run from the date of the annual accounting following the disposition of security, unless the Administrator or delegate determines a longer period of time should be applied either because of compelling circumstances such as the case has been referred to and accepted by OIG for criminal or civil investigation. The period of time during which a suit may be filed is set by federal statute and is not changed by this section. Demands on third-party purchasers will be made in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. In cases referred to OGC, the State Director will make comments and recommendations regarding the civil aspects of the case on Form RD 455-1.

(A) When cases are referred to OGC, the County Office case file, Form RD 455-1, and, when appropriate, Form RD 455-2 will be transmitted. In addition, when the institution of civil court proceedings by Rural Development is recommended, the notes, financing statements, security agreements, loan agreements, other legal instruments and copies thereof, as required by OGC, and Form RD 451-11, "Statement of Account," and Form RD 455-22 will be submitted to OGC. The State Director, with the advice of OGC, will determine the number of copies of such instruments needed and the information required on the certified statement of account. Each request for a certified statement of account will specify the type of information needed.

(B) Notes, statements of account, files, or other documents and copies thereof needed in referring cases to OGC for civil court or other action will be obtained from the Finance Office, or County Office, by the State Director. When the time required for obtaining the above material or documents may jeopardize Rural Development's interest by permitting the diversion or dissipation of assets which otherwise could be expected as a source of payment, the Finance Office, upon the request of the State Director, will forward such material or documents directly to OGC or (at the State Director's direction) to the U.S. Attorney.
