
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.49 Civil and criminal cases.
######## Actions on cases referred to the U.S. Attorney and on judgement cases,including third-party judgements

(e)(). OGC will notify the State Director, the Finance Office, and the County Supervisor when a case is referred to the U.S. Attorney or is otherwise closed. When a case is referred to the U.S. Attorney, the Finance Office will discontinue mailing Form RD 1951-9, Annual "Statement of Loan Account," to such borrowers. OGC will also notify the State Director when a judgement (including third-party) is obtained.

(1) When the County Supervisor receives notice from OGC that a judgment (including third-party) has been obtained, the County Supervisor will establish a judgment account by completing Form RD 1962-20, "Notice of Judgment," in accordance with the FMI. The Rural Development field office will process the judgment or the third party judgment via the Rural Development field office terminal.

(2) After notice has been received that a case has been referred to the U.S. Attorney or a judgment has been obtained and has not been returned to Rural Development by the U.S. Attorney, no action will be taken by the County Supervisor except upon specific instructions from the State Director, OGC, or the U.S. Attorney. However, the County Supervisor will keep the State Director informed of any developments which may affect the Rural Development security interest or any pending court action to enforce collection. If information is obtained indicating that such debtors have assets or income not previously reported by the County Supervisor to the State Director from which collection of such judgment accounts can be obtained, the facts will be reported to the State Director. The State Director immediately will notify OGC of any developments which might have a bearing on cases referred to the U.S. Attorney, including such judgment cases.

(i) If the debtor proposes to make a payment, Rural Development employees will not accept such payment but will offer to assist in preparing a letter for the debtor's signature to be used in transmitting the payment to the U.S. Attorney. In such case, the debtor will be advised to make payment by check or money order payable to the Treasurer of the United States.

(ii) Collection items received through the mail from the debtor or from other sources by the County Office to be applied to such accounts will be forwarded by the County Supervisor through OGC to the appropriate U.S. Attorney. Likewise, collections received by the District Director or the State Office will be forwarded through OGC to the appropriate U.S. Attorney. Such items will be forwarded in the form received except that cash will be converted into money orders made payable to the Treasurer of the United States. The money order receipts will remain attached to the money orders. Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 451-1 will not be issued in any such case. The debtor will be informed in writing by the County Supervisor of the disposition of the amount received.

(3) When the U.S. Attorney has returned a judgment case to Rural Development, the County Supervisor is responsible for servicing it as follows:

(i) When the judgment debtor has the ability to make periodic payments, action will be taken by the County Supervisor to make arrangements for the judgment debtor to do so.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) At the time of the annual review of collection-only or delinquent and problem cases, the County Supervisor will determine whether such judgment debtors, whose judgments have not been charged off and who are not making regular and satisfactory payments, have assets or income from which the judgment can be collected. If such debtors have either assets or income from which collection can be made and they have declined to make satisfactory arrangements for payment, the facts will be reported by the County Supervisor to the State Director. The State Director will notify OGC of developments when it appears that collections can be enforced out of income or assets.

(iv) Such judgments will not be renewed or revived unless there is a reason to believe that substantial assets have or may become subject thereto.

(v) Such judgments may be released only by the U.S. Attorney when they are paid in full or compromised.

(4) In all judgment cases, any proposed compromise or adjustment will be handled in accordance with subpart B of part 1956 of this chapter.

(5) If the debtor requests information as to the amount of outstanding indebtedness, such information, including court costs, should be obtained from the Finance Office if the County Supervisor does not have that information. If questions arise as to the payment of court costs, information as to such costs will be obtained through the State Office from OGC.
