
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### ยง 1962.49 Civil and criminal cases.
######## Civil action.

(b)Court action or other judicial process will be recommended to OGC when all other reasonable and proper efforts and methods to obtain payment, to remove other defaults, and to protect Rural Development 's property/financial interests have been exhausted. However, if an emergency situation exists or criminal action is to be recommended, the case will be submitted to OGC without taking the action necessary to report the information required by Part II of Form RD 455-22, "Information for Litigation." This is because delay in submitting cases in emergency situations may affect the financial interests of Rural Development and collection efforts may adversely affect the criminal investigation and/or criminal prosecution.

(1) Civil action will be recommended when one or more of the following conditions exists:

(i) There is a need to repossess security or EO property or to foreclose a lien and such action cannot be accomplished by other means authorized in this subpart.

(ii) There is a need for filing claims against third parties because of a conversion of security or other action.

(iii) Payment due on debts are not made in accordance with the borrower's ability to pay, and the borrower has assets or income from which collection can be made.

(iv) The borrower has progressed to the point that credit can be obtained from other sources, has agreed in the note or other instrument to do so, but refuses to comply with that agreement.

(v) Rural Development or its security becomes involved in court action through foreclosure by a third-party lienholder or through some other action.

(vi) Other conditions exist which indicate that court action may be necessary to protect Rural Development 's interests.

(2) Claims of less than $600 principal will not be referred to OGC for court action unless:

(i) A statement of facts is submitted as to the exact manner in which the interest of Rural Development, other than recovery of the amount involved, would be adversely affected if suit were not filed; and

(ii) Collection of a substantial part of the claim can be made from assets and income that are not exempt under State or Federal law. A State supplement will be issued to set forth such exemptions or a summary of those exemptions with respect to property to which Rural Development normally would look for payment such as real estate, livestock, equipment, and income.

(3) When a borrower has not properly accounted for the proceeds of the sale of security, it is the general policy to look first to the borrower for restitution rather than to third-party purchasers. In line with this policy the remaining chattel security on which Rural Development holds a first lien usually will be liquidated before demand is made, or civil action to recover from third-party purchasers.

(i) When the County Supervisor determines that full collection cannot be made from the borrower and that it will be necessary to collect the full value of the security purchased by a converter, a demand (see Guide Letter 1962-A-1, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office) will be sent to the purchaser at the same time that exhibit D or E of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter, is sent to the borrower.

(ii) When the County Supervisor determines that it is likely that action will have to be taken to collect from third-party pruchasers, the County Supervisor will notify such purchasers by letter (see Guide Letter 1962-A-2, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office) that Rural Development security has been purchased by them and that they may be called upon to return the property or pay the value thereof in the event restitution is not made by the borrower. If it later becomes necessary to make demand on such third-party purchasers, Rural Development will do so unless the case already has been referred to OGC or the U.S. Attorney, in which event the demand will be made by one of those offices.

(iii) When restitution is made by the borrower, or a determination is made, with the advice of OGC, that the facts in the case do not support the claim against the third-party purchaser, the third-party purchaser will be informed by the County Supervisor that Rural Development will take no adverse action (see Guide Letter 1962-A-3, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office). Ordinarily, it will not be necessary to inform the third-party purchaser of OGC's decision when OGC determines that the facts support the claim against the third-party purchaser but no substantial part of the claim can be collected. If OGC makes such a determination and the third-party purchaser asks what determination has been made, the County Supervisor will say that no further action is to be taken on the claim "at this time."

(iv) In addition, unless personal contacts with the third-party purchaser, or other efforts to collect demonstrate that further demand would be futile, and a satisfactory compromise offer has not been received, a follow-up letter (see Guide Letter 1962-A-4, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office) will be sent by the State Director as soon as possible after the 15-day period set forth in the demand letter has expired. Unless response to the State Director's followup letter or personal contacts or other efforts indicate that further demand would be futile, an additional follow-up letter will be sent to the third-party purchaser by OGC after the case has been referred to that office.
