
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### Exhibit B to Subpart A of Part 1962 - Memorandum of Understanding and Blanket Commodity Lien Waiver

The Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 (FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354) sometimes makes loans to farmers on the security of agricultural commodities that are eligible for price support under loan and purchase programs conducted by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and CCC desire that price support be made available to farmers without unnecessarily impairing or undermining the respective security interests of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and CCC in and without undue inconvenience to producers and FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and CCC in securing lien waivers on such commodities.

Now, therefore, it is agreed as follows:

(1) Upon request of an official of a State ASCS office, the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director in such State shall furnish designated county ASCS offices with the names of producers in the trade area from whom FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 holds currently effective liens on commodities with respect to which CCC conducts price support programs. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will try to furnish a complete and current list of the names of such producers; however, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354's liens with respect to any commodity will not be affected by an error in or omission from such lists.

(2) For a loan disbursed by a county ASCS office, CCC will issue a draft in the amount (Iess fees and charges due under CCC program regulations) of the loan on, or purchase price of, the commodity payable jointly to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and the producer if (a) his name is on the Iist furnished by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, or (b) he names FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 as lienholder. The draft will indicate the commodity covered by the loan or purchase.

(3) On issuance of the draft, the security interest of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 shall be subordinated to the rights of CCC in the commodity with respect to which the loan or purchase is made. The word "subordinated" means that, in the case of a loan, CCC's security interest in the commodity shall be superior and prior in right to that of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and that, on purchase of a commodity by CCC or its acquisition by CCC in satisfaction of a loan, the security interest of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in such commodity shall terminate.

(4) Nothing contained in this Memorandum of Understanding shall be construed to affect the rights and obligations of the parties except as specifically provided herein.

(5) This agreement may be terminated by either party on 30 days' written notice to the other party.

Dated: July 20, 1980.

Dated: July 14, 1980.
