
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1962 - PERSONAL PROPERTY
###### Subpart A - Servicing and Liquidation of Chattel Security
####### Exhibit E to Subpart A of Part 1962 - Releasing Security Sales Proceeds and Determining "Essential" Family Living and Farm Operating Expenses

Expenses for household operating, food, clothing, medical care, house repair, transportation, insurance and household appliances, i.e., stove, refrigerator, etc., are essential family living expenses. We do not expect there will be any disagreements over this. However, when proceeds are less than expenses, there might be disagreements about the amounts FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 should release to pay for particular items within these broad categories. For example, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 has to release for transportation expenses, but should FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 release so that a borrower can buy a new car? If at planning time or during the crop year it appears that there will be sales proceeds available to pay for the borrower's operating and living expenses, including the expense of a new car, the Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1962-1 can be completed to show that FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 plans to release for a new car. On the other hand, it would also be proper to complete the Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1962-1 to release for a used car or for gas and repairs to the borrower's present car. Since it is necessary for FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to release for essential family living expenses and because transportation is an essential family living expense, some proceeds must be released for transportation. However, nothing requires FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to release for a specific expense; usually, there will be several ways to use proceeds to provide for essential family living expenses. We must provide the borrower with a written decision and an opportunity to appeal whenever there is a disagreement over the use of proceeds or whenever we reject a request for a release.

We would expect farm operating expenses to present more of a problem than family living expenses. There will probably be a few disagreements over whether an expense is an operating expense (as opposed to a capital expense), but it is more likely that there will be disagreements over the amount FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 should release for operating expenses and whether a particular farm operating expense is "essential." As is the case with family living expenses, disagreements will most likely arise when proceeds are less than expenses.

To resolve disputes over the amount to be released, remember that we must be reasonable and release enough to pay for essential farm operating expenses. Although a borrower might not always agree that enough money is being released, if the borrower's essential farm operating expenses are being paid, we are fulfilling the requirements of the statute. We must provide the borrower with an opportunity to appeal when there is a disagreement over the use of proceeds or when we reject a request for a release.

Section 1962.17 of this subpart states that essential expenses are those which are "basic, crucial or indispensable." Whether an expense is basic, crucial or indispensable depends on the circumstances. For example, feed is a farm operating expense, but it is not always an essential expense. If adequate pasture is available to meet the needs of the borrower's animals, feed is not essential. Feed is essential if animals are confined in lots. Hiring a custom harvester is a farm operating expense, but is not an essential expense if the farmer has the equipment and labor to harvest the crop just as well as a custom harvester. Hired labor is an operating expense which might be essential in a dairy operation but not in a beef cattle operation. Payments to creditors are essential if the creditor is unable to restructure the debt or to carry the debt delinquent. Renting land is not essential if the borrower plans to use it to grow corn which can be purchased for less than the cost of production. Paying outstanding bills is essential if a supplier is refusing to provide additional credit but not if the supplier is willing to carry a balance due. Of course, the long term goal of any farming operation is to pay all of its expenses, but when this is not possible, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and the borrower must work together to decide which farm operating expenses are essential and demand immediate attention and cannot be neglected. These are the essential expenses.

We absolutely must release to pay for essential family living and farm operating expenses; there are no exceptions to this. When deciding whether an expense is essential and when deciding how much to release, the choices we make must be rational, reasonable, fair and not extreme. They must be based on sound judgment, supported by facts, and explained to the borrower. Following these rules will help us avoid disagreements with borrowers.
