
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart L - Procedures Related to Administrative Hearings Under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986
##### ยง 1.323 Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
###### ex parte.

(c) A party who desires the issuance of a subpoena shall file with the ALJ a written request not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses whose attendance is sought to be required and describe their addresses and locations with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce. Such a request may be made

(d) When the ALJ issues a subpoena under this section, the party who requested such subpoena shall serve all other parties with notice of the names and addresses of the individuals subpoenaed and specify any documents required to be produced.

(e) A subpoena shall be served by delivery, or by registered mail or by certified mail in the manner prescribed in ยง 1.308 of this part. A subpoena upon a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.

(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file a motion to quash the subpoena within five days of service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than five days after service.
