
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.401 Introduction.

(a) Direct Business and Industry (B&I) loans are disbursed by the Agency under this subpart. B&I loan guarantees are to be processed and serviced under the provisions of subparts A and B of part 4279 and subpart B of part 4287 of this title. Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of part 1900 subpart D of this chapter. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with any Agency employee.

(b) The purpose of the B&I program is to improve, develop or finance business, industry and employment and improve the economic and environmental climate in rural communities, including pollution abatement and control. This purpose is achieved through bolstering the existing private credit structure through guarantee of quality loans which will provide lasting community benefits. It is NOT intended that the guarantee authority be used for marginal or substandard loans or to "bail out" lenders having such loans.

(c) This subpart and its appendices (especially appendix I and appendix K) also contain regulations for Drought and Disaster (D&D) and Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises (DARBE) guaranteed loans authorized by section 331 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-387) and section 401 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989 (Pub. L. 101-82). D&D loans must be to alleviate distress caused to rural business entities, directly or indirectly, by drought, hail, excessive moisture, or related conditions occurring in 1988, or to provide for the guarantee of loans to such rural business entities that refinance or restructure debt as a result of losses incurred, directly or indirectly, because of such natural disasters and are limited to a guarantee of principal only. DARBE loans must be to alleviate distress caused to rural business entities, directly or indirectly, by drought, freeze, storm, excessive moisture, earthquake, or related conditions occurring in 1988 or 1989, or to provide for the guarantee of loans to such rural business entities that refinance or restructure debt as a result of losses incurred, directly or indirectly, because of such natural disasters and within certain parameters guarantee both principal and interest.

(d) The B&I loan program is administered by the Administrator through a State Director serving each State. The State Director is the focal point for the program and the local contact person for processing and servicing activities, although this subpart refers in various places to the duties and responsibilities of other Rural Development employees.

(e) Throughout this subpart there appear Administrative provisions for the State Director, District Director, and County Supervisor. These provisions establish the internal duties, responsibilities and procedures to carry out the requirements of the program. These provisions are identified as "Administrative" and follow appropriate sections of this subpart.

(f) This subpart and its appendices also contains regulations for Business and Industry Disaster (BID) loans under the authority of the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1992, Public Law 102-368. This program provides B&I guarantees for loans needed as a result of natural disasters. Some of the requirements of this subpart are waived or altered for BID loans. The waivers and alterations are provided in ยง 1980.498 of this subpart.
