
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.411 Loan purposes.
######## Debt refinancing.

(11)Lenders and Rural Development must provide as part of their loan analysis the reasons for refinancing and the file must be documented accordingly. Refinancing debts may be allowed in connection with viable projects when it is determined by the lender and Rural Development that it is necessary to create new or save existing jobs. Rural Development will consider any lender's exposure as it relates to this item and may adjust the guarantee percentage accordingly. Refinancing in accordance with this paragraph may be insured or guaranteed only when:

(i) It is necessary to spread substantial debt payment over a longer period of time thereby improving the business' net cash flow and working capital position consistent with the useful life of the asset(s) being refinanced, or

(ii) For payment of short-term debt when required in situations customarily financed over long periods of time (e.g., financing the purchase of real estate, machinery, or equipment with short-term debt or cash expenditures, when lenders would not extend reasonable longer terms to the business), or

(iii) It is necessary to place a permanent loan subsequent to an interim loan for financing the construction of the project.

(iv) It does not refinance subordinated owner debt; or

(v) (Except where the amount to be refinanced is owed directly to the Federal government or is Federally guaranteed) the amount to be refinanced by the Agency is a secondary part (less than 50 percent) of the overall loan requested.

(12) Reasonable fees and charges only as specifically listed below and disclosed on Form FD 449-1, "Application for Loan and Guarantee," or on an addendum to the application at the time the request is submitted to Rural Development for processing. Authorized fees include professional fees rendered by professionals generally licensed by individual State or accreditation Associations, such as Engineers, Architects, Lawyers, Accountants, and Appraisers. The amount of the fee will be what is reasonable and customary in the community or region where the project is located. For example, Architects and Engineers customarily charge fees based on a percentage of estimated project costs. Lawyers, Accountants, and Appraisers customarily charge for services on an hourly basis. Any fees for professional or expert services are to be fully documented and justified on the Form RD 449-1 and are subject to Rural Development review and approval before the application is presented to the Rural Development State Loan Review Board for action. The above approved fees and charges may be funded out of loan proceeds.

(13) Rural Development guarantee fee.

(14) Acquisition of membership and/or stocks, bonds, or debentures necessary to obtain a loan from Production Credit Associations, Banks for Cooperatives, Small Business Investment Companies, and other lenders, provided such acquisition is required of all their borrowers. However, a lender which requires membership fees in such organization or the purchase of securities issued by such organization will not use such proceeds to acquire, lease or improve property which does not benefit its members.

(15) Aquaculture including conservation, development and utilization of water for aquaculture. Aquaculture means the culture or husbandry of aquatic animals or plants by private industry for commercial purposes including the culture and growing of fish by private industry for the purpose of granting or augmenting publicly-owned and regulated stock of fish.
