
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.411 Loan purposes.
######## Private entrepreneurs.

(a)Loans may be for improving, developing or financing business, industry and employment and improving the economic and environmental climate, including pollution and abatement control, of rural areas, and may include but not be limited to:

(1) Business and industrial acquisitions, construction, conversion, enlargement, repair, modernization of development cost.

(2) Purchasing and development of land, easements, rights-of-way, buildings, facilities, leases or materials.

(3) Purchasing of equipment, lease-hold improvements machinery or supplies.

(4) Pollution control and abatement including those in connection with farming and ranching operations.

(5) Transportation services incidential to industrial development.

(6) Startup costs and working capital.

(7) The financing of housing development sites located in open country or cities, towns or villages with populations not in excess of those eligible for Rural Development rural housing loans, provided the community demonstrates a need for additional housing to prevent a loss of jobs in the area, or to house families moving to the area as a result of new employment opportunities.

(8) Loans, other than for working capital or debt refinancing, for meat processing facilities and integrated meat and poultry operations. Loans may not be guaranteed for agricultural production as defined in ยง 1980.412(e); however, applicants who are in the business of processing, marketing or packaging of agricultural products, as well as agricultural production, may be eligible for loan assistance for that portion of the business other than agricultural production provided the agricultural production aspect is separate from the rest of the business; i.e., the production aspects are handled through separate legal business entities or through maintenance of the accounting system in such a manner as to clearly identify the use of and future accounting of the loan proceeds and operation of the business.

(9) Interest (including interest on interim financing) during the period before the first principal payment becomes due or the facility becomes income producing, whichever occurs first.

(10) Feasibility studies.
