
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.424 Term of loan repayment.

(a) Principal and interest on the loan will be due and payable as provided in the promissory note except, any interest accrued as the result of the borrower's default on the guaranteed loan(s) over and above that which would have accrued at the normal note rate on the guaranteed loan(s) will not be guaranteed by Rural Development. The lender will structure repayments as established in the loan agreement between the lender and borrower. Ordinarily, such installments will be scheduled for payment as agreed upon by the lender and applicant but on terms that reasonably assure repayment of the loan. However, the first installment to include a repayment of principal may be scheduled for payment after the project is operable and has begun to generate income, but such installment will be due and payable within three years from the date of the promissory note and at least annually thereafter. Interest will be due at least annually from the date of the note. Ordinarily, monthly payments will be expected, except for seasonal-type businesses.

(b) The maximum time allowable for final maturity for an Rural Development guaranteed B&I loan will be limited to thirty (30) years for land, buildings and permanent fixtures; the usable life of the machinery and equipment purchased with loan funds, but not to exceed fifteen (15) years; and seven (7) years for the working capital portion of the loan. The term for a loan that is being refinanced may be based on the collateral the lender will take to secure the loan.

(c) The maximum time allowable for final maturity of an Rural Development insured loan for community facilities will not exceed forty (40) years.

(d) Rural Development will not guarantee any loan in which the promissory note or any other document provides for the payment of interest upon interest.
