
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.442 Feasibility studies.
######## Technical feasibility.

(c)Technical feasibility reports shall be prepared by individuals who have previous experience in the design and analysis of similar facilities and/or processes as are proposed in the application. The technical feasibility reports shall address the suitability of the selected site for the intended use, including an environmental impact analysis. The report shall be based upon verifiable data and contain sufficient information and analysis so that a determination may be made on the technical feasibility of achieving the levels of income and/or production that are projected in the financial statements. The report shall also identify any constraints or limitations in these financial projections and any other facility or design related factors which might affect the success of the enterprise. The report shall also identify and estimate project operating and development costs and specify the level of accuracy of these estimates and the assumptions on which these estimates have been based. For the purpose of the technical feasibility reports, the project engineer or architect may be considered an independent party provided the principals of the firm or any individual of the firm who participates in the technical feasibility report does not have a financial interest in the project, and provided further that no other individual or firm with the expertise necessary to make such a determination is reasonably available to perform the function.
