
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.443 Collateral, personal and corporate guarantees and other requirements.
######## Collateral.

(a)(1) The lender is responsible for seeing that proper and adequate collateral is obtained and maintained in existence and of record to protect the interest of the lender, the holder, and Rural Development.

(2) Collateral must be of such a nature that repayment of the loan is reasonably assured when considered with the integrity and ability of project management, soundness of the project, and applicant's prospective earnings. Collateral may include, but is not limited to the following: Land, buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture, fixtures, inventory, accounts receivable, cash or special cash collateral accounts, marketable securities and cash surrender value of life insurance. Collateral may also include assignments of leases or leasehold interest, revenues, patents, and copyrights.

(3) All collateral must secure the entire loan. The lender will not take separate collateral to secure only that portion of the loan or loss not covered by the guarantee. The lender will not require compensating balances or certificates of deposit as a means of eliminating the lender's exposure on the unguaranteed portion of the loan. However, compensating balances as used in the ordinary course of business may be used.

(4) Release of collateral of a going concern is based on a complete analysis of the proposal.

(i) Release of collateral prior to payment-in-full of the Rural Development guaranteed debt must be requested by the lender and concurred with by the State Director as prescribed in ยง 1980.469 Administrative D.2 of this subpart subject to the following conditions:

(A) Collateral taken initially or subsequently may not be released prior to the payoff, in full, of the loan balance without adequate consideration for the value of that collateral. Adequate consideration may include, but is not limited to:
