
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.443 Collateral, personal and corporate guarantees and other requirements.
######## Personal and corporate guarantees.,will

(b)(1) Unconditional personal/corporate guarantees (i.e., absolute guarantees of full and punctual payment and performance by the borrower) from owners or major stockholders as determined by Rural Development and all partners of partnerships (except for limited partnerships) unless restricted by lawbe required unless exempted as provided for in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Guarantees of parent, subsidiaries, or affiliated companies and/or secured guarantees may also be required. Rural Development is not a co-guarantor with the personal or corporate guarantors. The personal and corporate guarantees are part of the collateral for the loan.

(2) An exception to the requirement for personal or corporate guarantees may be made by Rural Development when requested by the lender and if:

(i) The borrower has a satisfactory and current (not over 90 days old) credit report, proven management, evidence of the market necessary to support projections, profitable historical performance of no less than 3 years, abundant collateral to protect the lender and Rural Development, sufficient cash flow to service its debts and meets key industry standards such as those of Robert Morris Associates, Dunn and Bradstreet or the like; or

(ii) The borrower's stock is widely enough held so that no one individual can exercise control. Examples of control would include but are not limited to: Holding sufficient proxies and maintaining sufficient family or special interest voting blocks; or

(iii) A borrower which has a parent, subsidiary, or affiliate which is legally restricted from guaranteeing, or if the guarantee would conflict with existing contractual obligations. Examples of existing contractual obligations include but are not limited to restrictions in loan agreements or in credit lines which may preclude guaranteeing.

(3) No guarantees are required from any partners in a limited partnership.

(4) As a general rule, stockholders of publicly traded corporations will not be required to guarantee. However, such guarantees can be required from some of the stockholders where such guarantees are determined necessary to adequately protect the interest of the Government.

(5) If the guarantee would conflict with existing contractual restrictions, the Administrator will have the authority to grant exceptions to the above restrictions upon a finding by the Administrator that such a guarantee is not necessary to adequately protect the Government's interest. Relief would only be granted as to contractual restrictions existing at the time the lender filed an application with Rural Development.

(6) Unsecured personal guarantees, while collateral, will not be considered for purposes of adequacy of security. Personal guarantees will be secured by collateral when business collateral offered is determined by Rural Development to be insufficient or when the borrower's credit does not meet the program's normal requirements or anytime the lender deems such security should be taken.

(7) Guarantors of borrowers will:

(i) In the case of personal guarantees, provide current financial statements (not over 60 days old at time of filing), signed by the guarantors, which make a clear disclosure of community or homestead property.

(ii) in the case of corporate guarantees, provide current financial statements (not over 90 days old at time of filing), certified by an officer of the corporation.

(iii) When applicable, provide written evidence to Rural Development of their inability to provide a guarantee because of existing contractual arrangements or legal restrictions.
