
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.443 Collateral, personal and corporate guarantees and other requirements.
######## Other requirements.

(c)(1) The lender will ascertain that no claim or liens of laborers, material men, contractors, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment or other parties are against the collateral of the borrower, and that no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the collateral of the borrower when the security instruments are filed.

(2) Hazard insurance with a standard mortgage clause naming the lender as beneficiary will be required on every loan in an amount that is at least the lesser of the depreciated replacement value of the property being insured or the amount of the loan. Hazard insurance includes fire, windstorm, lightning, hail, business interruption, explosion, riot, civil commotion, aircraft, vehicle, marine, smoke, builder's risk, public liability, property damage, flood or mudslide or any other hazard insurance that may be required to protect the collateral.

(3) Ordinarily, life insurance, which may be decreasing term insurance, is required for the principals and key employees of the borrower and will be assigned or pledged to the lender. A schedule of life insurance available for the benefit of the loan will be included as part of the application.

(4) Workman's compensation insurance is required in accordance with State law.
