
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.444 Appraisal of property serving as collateral.

(a) Appraisal reports prepared by independent qualified fee appraisers will be required on all property that will serve as collateral. In the case of loans two million dollars or less, the State Director may modify this requirement by permitting the appraisal to be made by a qualified appraiser on the lender's staff with experience appraising the type of collateral involved. The appraisers will give their opinion regarding the current market value of the collateral and the purpose for which the appraisal will be used. The lender will be responsible for assuring that appropriate appraisals are made.

(b) The lender will be responsible for determining that appraisers have the necessary qualifications and experience to make the appraisals. The lender will consult with Rural Development for its recommendations before having the appraisal made.

(c) The lender will determine that the fees or charges of appraisers are reasonable.

(d) Independent appraisals will be made in accordance with the accepted format of the industry and those prepared by the lender in accordance with its policy and procedures. All appraisals will become part of the application. (See ยง 1980.541(i)(6) of this subpart.)

(e) If a subsequent loan request is made within 3 years from the date of the most recent borrower's appraisal report, and there is no significant change in collateral, then the Rural Development State Director in his/her discretion, and if the lender agrees, may use the existing appraisal report in lieu of having a new appraisal prepared.
