
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.451 Filing and processing applications.
######## Loan Priorities.

(d)Applications and preapplications received by Rural Development will be considered in the order received; however, for the purpose of assigning priorities as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, Rural Development will compare an application to other pending applications.

(1) Rural Development will cooperate fully with appropriate State agencies in guaranteeing and insuring loans in a manner which will assure maximum support of the State's strategies for development of its rural areas.

(2) When applications on hand otherwise have equal priority, the applications from a veteran will have preference. A veteran is a person who has been discharged or released from the active forces of the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard under conditions other than dishonorable and who served on active duty in such forces:

(i) During the period April 6, 1917, though March 31, 1921;

(ii) During the period of December 7, 1941, through December 31, 1946;

(iii) During the period of June 27, 1950, through January 31, 1955; or

(iv) For a period of more than 180 days, any part of which occurred after January 31, 1955; but on or before May 17, 1975. Discharges under conditions other than dishonorable include "clemency discharges."

(3) Priorities will be assigned by Rural Development to eligible applications on the basis of a point system that takes into account project location, the creation and saving of jobs, the cost at which those jobs would be created or saved, seasonal and part-time job impact, and leveraging of Rural Development assistance. The application and supporting information submitted with it will be used to determine an eligible proposed project's priority for available funds or guarantee authority. The priorities described in this paragraph will be used by Rural Development to score projects. A copy of the calculation of the score should be placed in the case file for future reference.
