
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.451 Filing and processing applications.
######## Preapplications.

(f)Applicants may file preapplications with the County, District, or State Office including:

(1) A letter prepared by the borrower and the lender which shall include:

(i) Borrower's name, address, contact person and telephone number.

(ii) Amount of loan request.

(iii) Name of the proposed lender, address, contact person, and telephone number.

(iv) Brief description of the projects, products and services provided.

(v) Type and number of employment opportunities and unemployment rate where the project will be located.

(vi) Amount of borrower's equity and guarantees offered.

(vii) Anticipated loan maturity and interest rates.

(viii) Availabiity of raw materials and supplies.

(ix) If a corporation, names and addresses of borrower's parent, affiliates and/or subsidiary firms and a brief description of relationship, products and ownership among borrower, parent, affiliates and subsidiary firms.

(2) Form RD 449-22, "Certification of Non-Relocation and Market and Capacity Information Report."

(3) Form RD 449-4, "Statement of Personal History," for a proprietor (owner), each partner, officer, director, key employee and stockholders holding 20 percent or more interest in the borrower except for those corporations listed on a major stock exchange and for those so listed if required by Rural Development. Forms RD 449-4 are not required to be submitted for elected officials and appointed officials in connection with loan applications from public bodies. Failure to report full, complete and accurate information on the Statement of Personal History may result in Rural Development's not making or guaranteeing the loan. Whenever possible, a local, regional, or national credit report, furnished by the lender, will be used to verify data on Form RD.

(4) A record of any pending or final regulatory or legal (civil or criminal) action against the borrower, parent, affiliate, proposed guarantors, subsidiaries, principal stockholders, officers and directors.

(5) For existing businesses, a current balance sheet, and latest profit and loss statement (not more than 60 days old) and financial statements including parent, affiliate and subsidiary firms, for at least the last 3 years or more if necessary for a thorough evaluation.

(6) A detailed projection of gross revenue, net earnings and cash flow statements for 3 years including assumptions upon which such forecasts are based.

(7) Sales projections indicating the percent of the national and local market the business expects to obtain.

(8) Intergovernmental consultation should be carried out in accordance with 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, "Intergovernmental Review of Department of Agriculture Programs and Activities."
