
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.451 Filing and processing applications.
######## Administrative Points.

(v)The State Director may assign up to 20 points to an application in addition to those points scored under ยง 1980.451(d)(3) (i) through (iv). These administrative points are intended to be assigned by a State Director only in cases of unforeseen exigencies, emergencies, benefits to other FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354-assisted projects (including the limiting of financial risks affecting FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 loans and loan guarantees) or the loss of financing if Rural Development funds are not committed in a timely fashion. They may also be assigned in cases in which the project's goods or services are essential to other Federally assisted projects and activities in the area or to the successful implementation of an economic development strategy for the area that is sponsored and/or operated by an agency of the Federal or State government. An explanation for the assigning of these points by the State Director will be appended to the calculation of the project score maintained in the case file. If an application is considered in the National Office, the Administrator may also assign up to 20 points. An assignment of points by the Administrator will be by memorandum, stating the Administrator's reasons, and that memorandum will be appended to the calculation of the project score maintained in the case file. In assigning priorities to applications and in selecting projects for funding, Rural Development will consider State development strategies. Funds (guarantee authority) allocated for use as prescribed in this regulation are to be considered for use by Indian tribes within the State regardless of whether State development plans include Indian reservations within the State's boundaries. It is essential that Indians residing on such reservations have equal opportunity to participate in any benefits of these programs.
