
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### § 1980.451 Filing and processing applications.
######## Content of Applications:

(i)

(1) Form RD 449-1.

(2) Form RD 449-2.

(3) Environmental review documentation as required in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(4) Architectural or engineering plans, if applicable.

(5) Cost estimates and forecasts of contingency funds to cover inflation or project changes.

(6) Appraisal reports.

(7) For existing businesses a pro forma balance sheet at startup and for at least three additional projected years, indicating the necessary startup capital, operating capital and short-term credit based on financial statements for the last three years, or more (if available); and projected cash flow and earnings statements for at least three years supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. The business should submit a current balance sheet with a debt schedule of any debts to be refinanced and an income statement to Rural Development, through the lender, every 90 days from the time the application is filed with the lender to the time of issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee. If debt refinancing is requested, a debt schedule is prepared (correlated to the latest balance sheets) reflecting the debts to be refinanced including the name of the creditor, the original loan amount and loan balance, date of loan, interest rate, maturity date, monthly or annual payments, payment status and collateral that secured such loans.

(8) For new businesses, a pro forma balance sheet at startup and for the next three years, project cash flow (monthly first year, quarterly for two additional years) and projected earnings statements for three years supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections.

(9) Any credit reports obtained by the lender or Rural Development on the borrower, its principals and parent, affiliate and subsidiary firms.

(10) Form RD 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement," if construction costing more than $10,000 is involved.

(11) Copies of building permits, if applicable, and any necessary certifications and recommendations of appropriate regulatory or other agency having jurisdiction over the project including any pollution control agency.

(12) Personal and corporate financial statements of those guarantors named in § 1980.443.

(13) Proposed loan agreement. (See paragraph VII of Form RD 449-35). Loan agreements between the borrower and lender will be required. The final executed loan agreement must include the Agency requirements as set forth in the Form RD 449-14 including the requirements for periodic financial statements in accordance with § 1980.445. The loan agreement must also include, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) Prohibition against assuming liabilities or obligations of others.

(ii) Restrictions on dividend payments.

(iii) Limitation on purchase or sale of equipment and fixed assets.

(iv) Limitations on compensation of officers and owners.

(v) Minimum working capital requirements.

(vi) Maximum debt to net worth ratio.

(vii) Restrictions concerning consolidations, mergers or other circumstances.

(viii) Limitations on selling the business without concurrence of the lender and Rural Development.

(ix) Repayment and amortization of the loan.

(x) List of collateral for the loan including a list of persons and/or corporations guaranteeing the loan with a schedule for providing the lender and Rural Development with personal and/or corporate financial statements. (See § 1980.443)

(14) A complete feasibility study when required. (See § 1980.442)

(15) Any additional information required by Rural Development.

(16) For companies listed on major stock exchanges and/or subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, a copy of Form 10-K, "Annual Report Pursuant to section 13 or 15 D of the Act of 1934."

(17) Documented evidence that the project is located within or without special flood or mudslide hazard areas.

(18) Notices of compliance with the Privacy Act of 1974.

(i) If the borrower is acting in a personal capacity and not as an entrepreneur for such entities as proprietorships, partnerships, or corporations, and Rural Development solicits personal information for him/her, the individual will be provided Form RD 410-9, "Statement Required by the Privacy Act."

(ii) If Rural Development desires to obtain information concerning an individual from any source, Rural Development will provide such source with Form RD 410-10, "Privacy Act Statement to References."

(19) On any request for refinancing of existing loan(s) as authorized under § 1980.411(a)(11), the lender is required, as a minimum, to obtain the previously held collateral as security for the guaranteed loan(s). Additional collateral will be required by Rural Development when refinancing of unsecured or undersecured loans is unavoidable in order to accomplish the necessary strengthening of the firm's current position.
