
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.451 Filing and processing applications.
######## Job cost priorities.

(iii)The priority score for the project's cost per job is the score for the highest-ranked category in which the project fits. First, divide the amount of the Rural Development guaranteed loan by the number of jobs created or saved. This will result in the cost per job. Count only full-time jobs. Part-time jobs may be reduced to a fraction of a full-time job and counted. For example, a 20-hour-per-week job, or a job that is full-time for six months per year, is one-half of a job. Second, determine the State's nonmetropolitan household income as described in ยง 1980.451(d)(3)(vi). Third, divide the cost per job by the State's nonmetropolitan household income. For example, if the cost per job is $10,000 and the State's nonmetropolitan household income is $20,000, the result will be 0.5. The categories, and their point scores are:

(A) Loans on which the result is greater than 1.5 but less than 2.0 (5 points).

(B) Loans on which the result is from 1.0 to 1.5 (15 points).

(C) Loans on which the result is less than 1.0 (25 points).

If the result exceeds 2.0, a high cost per job in that State, no points are received for job cost.
