
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.476 Transfer and assumptions.

(a) All transfers and assumptions will be approved in writing by Rural Development. Such transfers and assumptions will be to an eligible applicant.

(b) Transfers and assumptions will be considered without regard to ยง 1980.451 (d) of this subpart.

(c) The borrower will submit to Rural Development Form RD 449-4 for the required character evaluation prior to the execution of the Assumption Agreement.

(d) Available transfer and assumption options to eligible borrowers include the following:

(1) The total indebtedness may be transferred to another borrower on the same terms.

(2) The total indebtedness may be transferred to another borrower on different terms not to exceed those terms for which an initial loan can be made.

(3) Less than the total indebtedness may be transferred to another borrower on the same terms.

(4) Less than the total indebtedness may be transferred to another borrower on different terms.

(e) In any transfer and assumption case, the transferor, including any guarantor(s), may be released from liability by the lender with Rural Development written concurrence only when the value of the collateral being transferred is at least equal to the amount of the loan or part of the loan being assumed. If the transfer is for less than the entire debt:

(1) Rural Development must determine that the transferor and any guarantors have no reasonable debt-paying ability considering their assets and income at the time of transfer.

(2) The Rural Development County Committee must certify that the transferor has cooperated in good faith, used due diligence to maintain the collateral against loss, and has otherwise fulfilled all of the regulations of this subpart to the best of borrower's ability.

(f) Any proceeds received from the sale of secured property before a transfer and assumption will be credited on the transferor's guaranteed loan debt in inverse order of maturity before the transfer and assumption transaction is closed.

(g) When the transferee makes any cash downpayment in connection with the transfer and assumption:

(1) The lender will employ an independent appraiser, subject to concurrence of both the transferor and transferee, to make an appraisal to determine the fair market value of all the collateral securing the loan. Such appraisal report fee and any other costs related thereto will be paid by the transferor and the transferee as they mutually agree.

(2) The market value of the secured property being acquired by the transferee, plus any additional security the transferee proposes to give to secure the debt, will be adequate to secure the balance of the total guaranteed loan owed, plus any prior liens. If any cash downpayment is made, it may be paid directly to the transferor as payment for equity in the project provided:

(i) The lender recommends and Rural Development approves the case downpayment be released to the transferor. The lender and Rural Development may require that an amount be retained for an established period of time in escrow as a reserve account as security for use against any future default on the loan. Any interest accruing on such an escrow account may be paid periodically to the transferor.

(ii) Any payments that are to be made by the transferee to the transferor in respect to the downpayment do not suspend the transferee's obligation to continue to meet the guaranteed loan payments as they come due under the terms of the assumption.

(iii) The transferor will agree not to take any actions against the transferee in connection with such transfer in the future without first obtaining the written approval of Rural Development and the lender.

(iv) The lender determines that there is repayment ability for the guaranteed debt assumed and any other indebtedness of the transferee.

(h) The lender will make, in all cases, a complete credit analysis to determine viability of the project, subject to Rural Development review and approval, including any requirement for deposits in an escrow account as security to meet its determined equity requirements for the project.

(i) The lender will issue a statement to Rural Development that the transaction can be properly transferred and the conveyance instruments will be filed, registered, or recorded as appropriate and legally permissible.

(j) Rural Development will not guarantee any additional loans to provide equity funds for a transfer and assumption.

(k) The assumption will be made on the lender's form of assumption agreement.

(l) The assumption agreement will contain the Rural Development case number of the transferor and transferee.

(m) Loan terms cannot be changed by the Assumption agreement unless previously approved in writing by Rural Development, with the concurrence of any holder(s) and concurrence of the transferor (including guarantors) if they have not been released from personal liability. Any new loan terms cannot exceed those authorized in this subpart. The lender's request will be supported by:

(1) An explanation of the reasons for the proposed change in the loan terms.

(2) Certification that the lien position securing the guaranteed loan will be maintained or improved, proper hazard insurance will be continued in effect and all applicable Truth in Lending requirements will be met.

(n) In the case of a transfer and assumption, it is the lender's responsibility to see that all such transfers and assumptions will be noted on all originals of the Loan Note Guarantee(s). The lender will provide Rural Development a copy of the transfer and assumption agreement. Notice must be given by the lender to Rural Development before any borrower or guarantor is released from liability.

(o) The holder(s), if any, need not be consulted on a transfer and assumption case unless there is a change in loan terms.

(p) If a loss should occur upon consummation of a complete transfer of assets and assumption for less than the full amount of the debt and the transferor-debtor (including personal guarantor) is released from personal liability, as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the lender, if it holds the guaranteed portion, may file an estimated "report of Loss" on Form RD 449-30 to recover its pro rata share of the actual loss at that time. In completing Form RD 449-30, the amount of the debt assumed will be entered on Line 24 as Net Collateral (Recovery). Approved protective advances and accrued interest thereon made during the arrangement of a transfer and assumption, if not assumed by the transferee, will be entered on Form 449-30, lines 13 and 14.
