
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.490 Business and industry buydown loans.
######## Interest rate buydown.

(d)(1) To be eligible for a BIB loan, the business must provide evidence and the lender and Rural Development must determine that, at least for the first year of the loan, the business will not have adequate cash flow to meet all of its financial obligations including the required payments on the proposed loan at the note rate, but that it can meet all obligations if the interest rate is reduced by 100 basis points.

(2) During the first year after a Loan Note Guarantee is issued for a BIB loan, Rural Development will pay one percentage point of interest on the loan directly to the lender, thereby reducing the interest due from the borrower by this amount. This interest payment shall be applied to both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the loan pro ratably according to Rural Development regulations.

(3) Interest payments by Rural Development may continue in subsequent years if the borrower's cash flow is insufficient to pay all obligations including the required payments on the proposed loan at the note rate. On or about each yearly anniversary of the promissory note the lender may submit a request to Rural Development for continued interest payments, along with current profit and loss and cash flow statements and cash flow projections to show that the continued payments are needed for another year. Rural Development will promptly review the material submitted, determine whether the continued interest payments by Rural Development are needed to provide for sufficient cash flow in the coming year, and notify the lender in writing of the determination. Once interest payments by Rural Development are terminated because the borrower's cash flow is determined to be sufficient to pay the note rate, such payments will not be made in subsequent years even if the cash flow decreases.

(4) This section does not authorize interest payments by Rural Development on B&I loans other than those approved under this section. To be eligible for interest payments by Rural Development, the loan must be designated as a BIB loan when approved and funded from funds authorized by Public Law 103-50.
