
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### ยง 1980.498 Business and Industry Disaster Loans.
######## Relationship to disaster.

(1)The purpose of any BID loan must be to cover costs that are a direct consequence of a natural disaster or microburst of wind in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of the loan must not be greater than the amount needed as determined by the Rural Development Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 (RDA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354) to cure problems caused by the natural disaster so that the business is reestablished on a successful basis. Facilities which were damaged or destroyed by the natural disaster may be repaired or replaced by modern facilities as necessary to ensure success. Replacement by modern facilities will not be made solely for the purpose of enlarging the business or increasing its production capacity. No loan for a change of purpose of the business will be guaranteed. Eligible refinancing or working capital loans should not exceed the amount needed to overcome the financial distress caused by the disaster. Losses that were adequately paid by insurance or by loans or grants from other sources will not be covered by BID loans. BID loans may be used to supplement insurance payments and/or assistance from other sources when the insurance coverage or other assistance is not sufficient.
