
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Alcohol Production Facilities Planning, Performing, Development and Project Control
######## Project Control.

(IV)

(A) Lender will adopt project control procedures to assure that loan funds are applied for costs or expenses properly attributable to the project ("Eligible Project Costs") as proposed in the completed application submitted by the lender and borrower and approved by the Rural Development. A project monitoring account ("Project Monitoring Account") will be developed by lender for this purpose and concurred in by the State Director. This account will be divided into sufficient budget categories to permit adequate control of expenditures and identification of potential budget overruns.

(B) The first advance ("First Advance") of loan funds to the borrower will not commence from the Project Monitoring Account prior to lender's receipt of evidence that:

(1) The borrower has made adequate provisions for compliance with measures established by Rural Development to mitigate adverse historical and environmental impacts.

(2) Applicable engineering, design/build, construction management, inspection and plant start-up service agreements have been obtained and accepted by the State Director and lender.

(3) The project engineer has prepared a detailed cost estimate and construction schedule for all facilities related to the project. This estimate must indicate that the project can be completed with the funds available as shown on the Form RD 449-1, "Application for Loan and Guarantee." A reasonable contingency amount will be included in the estimate. This contingency shall be at least 20 percent of the estimated project costs for which firm bids have not been received plus 5 percent of project costs for which firm bids have been received. Construction interest and inspection costs will be based upon a reasonable contingency for unforeseen delays in project completion. The estimate shall include a listing with associated costs of any proposed leasing arrangements for property or equipment that is essential to the successful operation of the project.

(4) All funds necessary for construction of project facilities will be available when needed.

(5) The borrower has retained a project manager with sufficient experience and training to supervise project construction and engineering services on behalf of the borrower.

(C) After the first advance, future advances may be made from the Project Monitoring Account, in accordance with prudent lender practice, for all Eligible Project Costs established in the Project Monitoring Account, provided these payments are made in accordance with the terms of applicable contracts and are approved by the borrower and, when applicable, recommended by the project engineer.

(D) Payments for Eligible Project Costs incurred by the borrower prior to satisfaction of the conditions precedent to the first advance shall be made with borrower's funds or other nonguaranteed loan funds only. These payments however, may be reimbursed through the Project Monitoring Account as authorized by the State Director after compliance with Paragraph (IV)(B) hereof. The lender will not advance and the borrower will not be entitled to loan funds for reimbursement if such costs or expenses incurred by the borrower prior to the first advance, or at anytime thereafter, were for costs or expenses other than Eligible Project Costs. Costs and expenses accruing from but not limited to, interest charges imposed by construction, equipment, material or service contracts, penalty payments, damage claims, awards or settlements are not Eligible Project Costs unless specifically approved by the State Director.

(E) The lender will monitor the progress of construction and undertake the reviews and project inspections necessary to reasonably assure that funds are paid for Eligible Project Costs and that problems in project development are expeditiously reported to the State Director.

(F) The lender will prepare a monthly report showing the expenditures made from each budget category of the Project Monitoring Account. This report will include a review of construction progress including proposed and approved contract change orders and, to the extend possible, identify problems or delays in construction or other matters which might affect successful startup of project. This report may be based upon information received from the project engineer and borrower and/or independent observations of the lender. The report will be initialed by the borrower and project engineer and submitted to the State Director.

(G) Transfer of loan funds between established or new categories of the Project Monitoring Account or any change in the total amount of funds committed to the project will be reported by the lender to the State Director as these changes occur.
