
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Alcohol Production Facilities Planning, Performing, Development and Project Control
######## Technical Services.

(II)(A) The borrower is responsible for selecting engineering consultants with suitable experience, training and professional competence in the design and construction of the project to assure that the completed project will operate at the prescribed levels of performance. In discharging its responsibility the borrower will obtain or cause to be obtained:

(1) Full engineering services for design and construction inspection for all project facilities. Resident inspection by qualified persons will be required.

(2) Agreements for engineering or design/build services which describe the project facilities in terms of the parameters critical to the successful operation of the project. The parameters shall include input quantities, conversion efficiency, rate of production and fuel consumption and product quality under normal operating conditions. The design parameters will be mutually agreed upon by the borrower, lender, the State Director and the project engineer, and may not be modified without the written concurrence of each of these parties. These agreements for engineering or design/build services will require, or the borrower will otherwise obtain, assurance satisfactory to the State Director that:

(a) The project engineer will maintain adequate insurance to protect the borrower, lender and the Government from incurring expenses resulting from errors and omissions of the engineer in performance of engineering services.

(b) The project engineer will certify that only proven equipment and processes will be utilized in the proposed development. The State Director may request evidence of successful operations of such proven equipment and process. If proven equipment or processes are not used in the project, the project engineer will identify these items and provide the information necessary for acceptance by the Administrator, borrower and lender in accordance with paragraph (I)(B)(2) of this appendix.

(c) If used equipment or existing facilities are incorporated into the project, they must be inspected by the project engineer or by another qualified engineer of the borrower. This engineer will prepare a report describing the proposed facilities or equipment and will comment on their suitability for use in the project. The report will also identify the modifications necessary for successful integration into the project. A cost estimate will also be included comparing new equipment and facilities to the proposed existing facilities or used equipment. Consideration must be given to the relative energy requirements of used and new facilities and their relative operation and maintenance costs.

(d) The project engineer or qualified individuals representing the manufacturer of principal equipment (or the designer/builder if the contractor has designed the plant) will visit the plant site at reasonable intervals for a period of one year after substantial completion of the project. Such personnel will be experienced in the proper operation and maintenance of applicable plant components. A report will be presented to the borrower within two weeks of each site visit advising the borrower of operation and maintenance deficiencies. A copy of each report will be forwarded to the State Director and lender by the borrower.

(e) The project engineer will prepare or supervise the preparation of a record drawing of all facilities. One copy will be submitted to the lender and the borrower.

(f) The project engineer or another group acceptable to the State Director and lender will prepare an operation and maintenance manual and assist the borrower in the start-up of the project. The operation and maintenance manual will describe the specific operation and maintenance procedures which must be performed for the project to operate at its rated capacity and efficiency and outline product testing, quality control, plant safety and emergency shut-down procedures.

(g) The project engineer will assist the borrower in determining acceptability of materials, equipment and construction during the construction period, review shop drawings, payment estimates and change orders, and assist in determining substantial completion of the project and final completion of individual contracts. (1) The project is substantially complete when:

(i) Construction is sufficiently completed in accordance with plans and specifications so that the project may be used for its intended purpose, and;

(ii) The project is producing products of the quantity and quality and at the conversion and energy efficiencies proposed in the completed application submitted by the lender and borrower and approved by the Rural Development.

(2) The State Director must concur that the project is substantially complete. The following evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the State Director and lender, must be submitted prior to such concurrence:

(i) A certificate from the project engineer stating that all facilities are substantially complete. Engineers who design specialized equipment or processes must also certify that construction/fabrication is acceptable in accordance with plans and specifications previously approved by them. The certification of the project engineer must be based upon a project start-up procedure where the complete project operates continuously to reach steady-state operating conditions. During this period contractors and engineers will identify and correct problems in operations, malfunctions in equipment, failure in materials and defects in workmanship. After this pre-startup, the certifying engineers will monitor project operations for a continuous period of at least 72 hours or 3 consecutive batch runs as appropriate to assure that all equipment is operating satisfactorily at rated capacity and efficiency.

(ii) Copies of system operation and performance data obtained during project start-up.

(iii) Exceptions to substantial completion and a list of nonsubstantial items which must be completed prior to release of any contractor's retainage.

(3) If the project is not producing products of the required quantity or quality at the prescribed conversion efficiencies, even though the project is otherwise physically complete in accordance with paragraph (1)(i) of this subparagraph, the project engineer will prepare a report identifying the corrective actions including an estimate of costs and additional time necessary to meet established performance criteria.

(4) The project must be certified to be substantially complete by an independent engineer if any portion of the project has been designed or constructed by the borrower or the project engineer has participated in any portion of the construction.

(B) Modification of plans and specifications will not be made without the written authorization of the project engineer.

(C) The Administrator, State Director or their representative's acceptance or concurrence in feasibility studies, preliminary engineering reports, plans, specifications, contract documents and payment estimates will not be construed as a representation of the adequacy of same, reliability of cost estimates or quality of construction, nor will such acceptance or concurrence be deemed a waiver of any of the Government's rights or remedies against any person or party. Reviews and construction inspections by the Administrator, State Director or their representatives are solely for the benefit of the Government and do not relieve the lender or borrower of their obligation to conduct project reviews and inspections.
