
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix C to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Guidelines for Loan Guarantees for Alcohol Fuel Production Facilities
######## tangible

(4) The applicant should have a startupbook equity of 20-25 percent. (Appraisal surplus and subordinated debt are not eligible equity items.)

(5) Loan maturity maximums will be as follows:

(6) Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will ordinarily only finance new facilities and will not get involved in the refinancing of existing ones.

(7) Priority consideration will be given to the use of primary fuel other than petroleum or natural gas.

(8) A positive energy balance must be indicated and supported by appropriate data; i.e., the energy content of the alcohol produced at the alcohol production facility must be greater than the energy used to produce the alcohol and by-products.

(9) Plant location, in relation to feedstocks, primary fuel and markets for product and by-products, will be an important consideration.

(10) Debt refinancing will only be considered in modest amounts and only when necessary to provide a satisfactory lien position.

(11) Feasibility studies are very important and required and will be prepared by competent and knowledgeable independent parties.

(12) Participating lenders must either have expertise or the availability of expertise in this field.

(13) The proposed operating managers must have experience in this or a related field.

(14) Alcohol Fuel Production Facilities are eligible for assistance under the Drought and Disaster (D&D) Guaranteed Loan and Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises (DARBE) programs described in this subpart, and especially in appendix I and appendix K. Any such loan must meet the requirements for D&D and DARBE loans.
