
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Environmental Assessment Guidelines

In completing an assessment, it is important to understand the comprehensive nature of the impacts which must be analyzed. Consideration must be given to all potential impacts associated with the construction of the project and its operation and maintenance. The attainment of the project's major objectives often induces or supports changes in population densities, land uses, community services, transportation systems and resource consumption. The impacts of these activities must also be assessed.

The environmental reviewer should consult with appropriate experts from Federal, State and local agencies, universities and other organizations or groups whose views could be helpful in the assessment of potential impacts. In so doing, each discussion which is utilized in reaching a conclusion with respect to the degree of an impact should be summarized in the assessment as accurately as possible and include name, title, phone number, and organization of the individual contacted, plus the date of contact. Related correspondence should be attached to the assessment.

The Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 assessment should be prepared in the following format; it should address the listed items and questions and contain as attachments the indicated descriptive materials, as well as the environmental information submitted by the applicant.

These assessment guidelines have been designed to cover the wide variety of impacts which may be encountered. Consequently, not every issue or potential impact raised in these guildlines may be relevant to each project. The purpose of the format is to give the preparer an understanding of a standard range of impacts, environmental factors and issues which may be encountered. In preparing an assessment, each topic heading identified by a roman numeral and each environmental factor listed under topic heading IV, such as air quality for example, must be addressed.

The amount of analysis and material that must be provided will depend upon the type and size of the project, the environment in which it is located and the range and complexity of the potential impacts. The amount of analysis and detail provided, therefore, must be commensurate with the magnitude of the expected impact. The analysis of each environmental factor (i.e., water quality) must be taken to the point that a conclusion can be reached and supported concerning the degree of the expected impact with respect to that factor.
