
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Alcohol Production Facilities Planning, Performing, Development and Project Control
######## Design Policy.

(I)The borrower shall ensure or cause to be ensured that:

(A) All project facilities are designed utilizing accepted engineering practices and are conformed to applicable Federal, State and local codes and requirements.

(B) Proven equipment and processes are employed in all project facilities unless an exception is granted by the Administrator or designee of Rural Development ("Administrator") in accordance with paragraph (B)(2) hereof and pilot equipment or processes are used instead.

(1) Equipment and processes shall be considered "proven" if they have been successfully employed in other commercial facilities.

(2) Equipment and processes shall be considered pilot if they have not been used in a commercial operation but have been operated on a scale such that all design and material problems have been identified and resolved and operations maintained to demonstrate that the equipment and process may be successfully applied to the proposed commercial operation. Pilot equipment and processes may be considered for use in the project subject to the following:

(a) The plans, specifications, and operational data for the applicable facilities are reviewed by the Administrator or designee and lender. If, in the opinion of Rural Development, the proposed processes or equipment are insufficiently developed to assure reliable and successful operation of the project, proven processes and equipment will be utilized.

(b) If pilot processes or equipment are used, the Administrator or designee will also require that:

(i) Reasonable provision is made in the project for conversion to proven equipment or processes; and

(ii) The borrower agrees to convert to proven equipment or processes if conversion is necessary to protect the interest of the Government in the project. A reserve account for this conversion may be required. This account will not be an eligible loan purpose.

(C) Facility and equipment design incorporates cost-effective primary fuel systems, energy recovery systems and conservation measures to the maximum extent that this is feasible and consistent with paragraphs (I), (A), and (B) of this appendix.
