
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Alcohol Production Facilities Planning, Performing, Development and Project Control
######## Project Construction.

(III)

(A) Borrower will not award contracts for the construction of any project facilities unless and until:

(1) The borrower obtains applicable construction permits, right-of-ways, licenses and approvals of Federal, State and local authorities for the construction of such facilities.

(2) The State Director concurs in applicable plans, specifications and contract documents. Standard contract documents prescribed for use in Federally assisted projects may be used as a guide for determining the minimum standards for contract acceptability. These standard documents are contained in Guides 18 and 19 of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter (available in any Rural Development office).

(B) The borrower has the responsibility, without recourse to the Government, for the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements. This includes, but is not limited to, disputes, claims, protests of awards, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of laws are to be referred to such local, State, or Federal authority as may have proper jurisdiction.

(C) The borrower's attorney will review executed contract documents including applicable performance and payment bonds and provide a certificate to the borrower and lender that they have been properly executed and that the persons executing these documents have been properly authorized to do so.

(D) In all contracts for construction or facility improvement awarded in excess of $100,000, the borrower will require bonds and a bank letter of credit or cash deposit in escrow, assuring performance and payment of 100 percent of the contract cost. The surety will normally be in the form of performance and payment bonds. Such assurance shall remain in full force and effect through any warranty period. Companies providing performance and payment bonds must hold a certificate of authority as an acceptable security on Federal bonds and eligible for listing in Treasury circular 510 as amended and be legally doing business in the State the project is located.

(E) Project Changes. Any change in the project which may affect collateral, its ultimate financial viability or compliance with the conditional commitment must have prior approval of the lender and Rural Development.

(1) Construction contracts will require that change orders receive prior approval from the lender when such changes:

(a) Increase or decrease contract price,

(b) Materially modify contract provisions,

(c) Increase or decrease time of completion,

(d) Affect project performance.

(2) All change orders will be recorded on a chronologically numbered contract change order as they occur. Change orders will not be included in payment estimates until approved by the borrower, project engineer, the lender and concurred in by Rural Development.

(F) Warranty.

(1) All major equipment must be guaranteed by the manufacturer to be free from defects in workmanship and materials for a period of one year after start-up of equipment.

(2) Equipment purchased by a construction contractor or design builder and all other work shall be further warranted to be free from defect in material and workmanship by the contractor or the design builder for a period of one year after substantial completion of the contract.

(3) Applicable provisions to this effect shall be included in equipment purchase orders or construction contracts.

(G) Lease agreements. Where the right of use or control of any property or equipment not owned by the borrower is essential to the successful operation of the project during the life of the loan, such right will be evidenced by written agreements or contracts between the owner(s) of the property or equipment and the borrower. Lease agreements shall not contain provisions for restricted use of the site or facility, forfeiture or similiar cancellation clauses and shall provide for the right to transfer and lease without restriction. Such lease contracts or agreements shall be approved by the lender and Rural Development.
