
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Environmental Assessment Guidelines
######## Primary beneficiaries and related activities.

(II)Identify any existing businesses or major developments that will benefit from the project and those which will expand or locate in the area because of the project. Specify by name, product, service, and operations involved.

Identify any related activities which are defined as interdependent parts of an Rural Development action. Such undertakings are considered interdependent parts whenever they either make possible or support the Rural Development action or are themselves induced or supported by the Rural Development action or another related activity. These activities may have been completed in the very recent past and are now operational or they may reasonably be expected to be accomplished in the near future. Related activities may or may not be Federally permitted or assisted. When they are, identify the involved Federal agency(s).

In completing the remainder of the assessment, it must be remembered that the impacts to be addressed are those which stem from the project, the primary beneficiaries, and the related activities.
