
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Environmental Assessment Guidelines
######## Compliance with Advisory Council on Historic Preservation's regulations.

(VI)In this section, the environmental reviewer shall detail the steps taken to comply with the above regulations as specified in Subpart F of Part 1901 of this Chapter. First, indicate that the National Register of Historic Places, including its monthly supplements, has been reviewed and whether there are any listed properties located within the area to be affected by the project. Second, indicate the steps taken such as historical/archeological surveys to determine if there are any properties eligible for listing located within the affected area. Summarize the results of the consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) and attach appropriate documentation of the SHPO's views. Discuss the views of any other experts contacted. Based upon the above review process and the views of the SHPO, state whether or not an eligible or listed property will be affected.

If there will be an effect, discuss all of the steps and protective measures taken to complete the Advisory Council's regulations. Describe the affected property and the nature of the effect. Attach to the asessment the results of the coordination process with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
