
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter H - Program Regulations
##### PART 1980 - GENERAL
###### Subpart E - Business and Industrial Loan Program
####### Appendix H to Subpart E of Part 1980 - Suggested Format for the Opinion of the Lender's Legal Counsel

I/We have acted as counsel to (Lender) ________ in connection with a $ (amount) ________ (type) ________ loan by the (Lender) ________ (hereinafter "the Lender" to (Borrower) ________ (hereinafter "Borrower"), the terms of which loans are set forth in a certain Loan Agreement (hereinafter "the Loan Agreement") executed by the Lender and Borrower on (date) ________.

In connection with this loan, I/we have examined:

1. The corporate records of Borrower, including its Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and Resolutions of its Board of Directors.

2. The Loan Agreement between the Lender and Borrower.

3. The Security Agreement executed by Borrower on (date) ________.

4. The Guaranty (where applicable) executed on (date) ________ by (personal guarantors) ________.

5. Financing Statements executed by Borrower and the Lender.

6. Real Estate Mortgages dated ________ and executed by Borrower in favor of the Lender.

7. Real Estate Mortgages dated ________ and/or other security documents dated________ executed by (personal guarantors) ________ in favor of the Bank.

8. The appropriate title and/or lien searches relating to Borrower's property.

9. The pledge of stock and instruments related thereto.

10. Such other materials, including relevant provisions of the laws of this state as I/we have deemed pertinent as a basis for rendering the opinion hereafter set forth.

11. Lease(s) between Borrower and (lessor's name) ________ for the rental of (property being rented) ________, (if real property, give the address of the premises; if machinery equipment, etc., give brief, precise description of property for a (length of lease) ________ term commencing on (date) ________.

Based on the foregoing examinations, I am/we are of the opinion and advise you that:

1. Borrower is a duly organized corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth/State of (State) ________.

2. Borrower has the necessary corporate power to authorize and has taken the necessary corporate action to authorize the Loan Agreement and to execute and deliver the Note, Security Agreement, Financing Statement, and Mortgage. Said instruments hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Loan Instruments."

3. The Loan Instruments were all duly authorized, executed, and delivered and constitute the valid and legally binding obligation of the Borrower and collectively create and valid (first) lien upon or valid security interest in favor of the Lender, in the security covered thereby, and are enforceable in accordance with their terms except to the extent that the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.

4. The execution and delivery of the Loan Instruments and compliance with the provisions thereof under the circumstances contemplated thereby did not, do not and will not in any material respect conflict with, constitute default under, or contravene any contract or agreement or other instrument to which the Borrower is a party or any existing law, regulation, court order, or consent decree or device to which the Borrower is subject.

5. All applicable Federal, State and local tax returns and reports as required have been duly filed by Borrower and all Federal, State and local taxes, assessments and other governmental charges imposed upon Borrower or its respective assets, which are due and payable, have been paid.

6. The guaranty has been duly executed by the Guarantors and is a legal, valid and binding joint and several obligations of the Guarantors, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.

7. All necessary consents, approvals, or authorizations of any governmental agency or regulatory authority or of stockholders which are necessary have been obtained. The improvements and the use of the property comply in all respects with all Federal, State, and local laws applicable thereto.

8. (In cases involving subordinate or other than first lien position) That the mortgage/deed of trust on Borrower's real estate and (fixtures, e.g., machinery and equipment) and the security interest on (type of collateral, e.g., machinery and equipment, accounts, receivables and inventory) both given as security to the Lender for the Loan, will be subordinate to (first mortgagee) ________ given as security for a loan in the amount of $________ and the security interest in Borrower's (type of collateral, e.g., accounts inventory) ________ given to (secured creditor) ________ as security for a loan (state type of loan, i.e., revolving line of credit, ________ if known) in the amount of $________.

9. That there are no liens, as of the date hereof, on record with respect to the property of Borrower other than those set forth above.

10. There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of our knowledge, threatened before any court or administrative agency against Borrower which could materially adversely affect the financial condition and operations of Borrower.

11. Borrower has good and marketable title to the real estate security free and clear of all liens and encumbrances other than those set forth above. I/we have no knowledge of any defect in the title of the Borrower to the property described in the Loan Instruments.

12. Borrower is the absolute owner of all property given to secure the repayment of the loan, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, and security interests.

13. Duly executed and valid functioning statements have been filed in all offices in which it is necessary to file financing statements to fully perfect the security interests granted in the Loan Instruments.

14. Duly executed real estate mortgages/deeds of trust have been recorded in all offices in which it is necessary to record to fully perfect the security interests granted in the Loan Instruments.

15. (IN SOME OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES) The Indemnification Agreement has been duly executed by the Indemnitors and is a legal, valid and binding joint and several obligation of the Indemnitors, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.

16. That the lease contains a valid and enforceable right of assignment and right of reassignment, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.

17. The Lender's lien has been duly noted on all motor vehicle titles, stock certificates or other instruments where such notations are required for proper perfection of security interests therein.

18. That a valid pledge of the outstanding and unissued stock and/or shares of Borrower has been obtained and the Lender has a validly perfected and enforceable security interest in the shares/stock of Borrower, except to the extent the enforceability thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors rights.
