
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter I - Administrative Regulations
##### PART 2003 - ORGANIZATION
###### Subpart A - Functional Organization of the Rural Development Mission Area
####### ยง 2003.6 Office of the Under Secretary.
######## Office of the Deputy Under Secretary for P&P.

(a)This office is headed by the Deputy Under Secretary for P&P. The Under Secretary, Rural Development, has delegated to the Deputy Under Secretary for P&P, responsibility for formulation and development of short-and long-range rural development policies of the Department in accordance with 7 CFR ยง 2.45. The Deputy Under Secretary for P&P reports directly to the Under Secretary, Rural Development, and provides guidance and supervision for research, policy analysis and development, strategic planning, partnerships and special initiatives. For budget and accounting purposes, all of the staff offices under the Deputy Under Secretary for P&P are housed in RBS.

(1) The Budget Analysis Division assesses potential impacts of alternative policies on the mission area's programs and operations and develops recommendations for change. The units are headed by the Chief Budget Officer, who individually serves as the top policy advisor to the Under Secretary and Deputy Under Secretary on all matters relating to mission area budget policy.

(2) The Research, Analysis and Information Division analyzes information on rural conditions and the strategies and techniques for promoting rural development. The division performs, or arranges to have conducted, short-term and major research studies needed to formulate policy.

(3) The Reinvention and Capacity Building Division coordinates the mission area's strategic planning initiatives, both at the National level and in the State Offices. The division assists the Rural Development agencies in their implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and special initiatives of the Administration, USDA, and the Office of the Under Secretary.

(4) The Rural Initiatives and Partnership Division manages the mission area's involvement and coordination with other Federal and state departments and agencies to assess rural issues and develop model partnerships and initiatives to achieve shared rural development goals. The division is responsible for managing the National Rural Development Partnership and providing support and oversight of 37 State Rural Development Councils.
