
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XVIII - Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter I - Administrative Regulations
##### PART 2003 - ORGANIZATION
###### Subpart A - Functional Organization of the Rural Development Mission Area
####### ยง 2003.6 Office of the Under Secretary.
######## Office of Communications.

(3)Headed by a director who reports directly to the Deputy Under Secretary for O&M, this office has primary responsibility for tracking legislation and development and institution of policies to provide public communication and information services related to the Rural Development. The office maintains a constituent data base and conducts minority outreach efforts and administers a public information and media center responsible for media inquiries, news releases, program announcements, media advisories, and information retrieval. This office also serves as a liaison with Office of Congressional Relations (OCR), Office of the General Counsel (OGC), and other Departmental units involved in Congressional relations and public information. This office drafts testimony, prepares witnesses, and provides staff for hearings and markups. In addition, the office briefs Congressional members and staff on the Rural Development matters, coordinates Rural Development's legislative activities with other USDA agencies and OMB and develops and implements legislative strategy. The staff also coordinates development and production of brochures, press releases, and other public information materials.
