
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXV - Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 2500 - OAO FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS - GENERAL AWARD ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Pre-Award: Solicitation and Proposals
###### ยง 2500.012 Requests for proposals.
####### General.

(a)For each competitive grant or cooperative agreement, OAO will prepare a program solicitation (also called a request for proposals (RFP)). The RFP may include all or a portion of the following items:

(1) Contact information.

(2) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number.

(3) Legislative authority and background information.

(4) Purpose, priorities, and fund availability.

(5) Program-specific eligibility requirements.

(6) Program-specific restrictions on the use of funds, if applicable.

(7) Matching requirements, if applicable.

(8) Acceptable types of proposals.

(9) Types of projects to be given priority consideration, including maximum anticipated awards and maximum project lengths, if applicable.

(10) Program areas, if applicable.

(11) Funding restrictions, if applicable.

(12) Directions for obtaining additional requests for proposals and proposal forms.

(13) Information about how to obtain proposal forms and the instructions for completing such forms.

(14) Instructions and requirements for submitting proposals, including submission deadline(s).

(15) Explanation of the proposal evaluation process.

(16) Specific evaluation criteria used in the review process.
