
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXV - Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 2500 - OAO FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS - GENERAL AWARD ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### ยง 2500.003 Other applicable statutes and regulations.

Several Federal statutes and regulations apply to proposals for Federal assistance considered for review and to grants and cooperative agreements awarded by OAO. These include, but are not limited to:

(a) 7 CFR Part 1, Subpart A-USDA implementation of the Freedom of Information Act;

(b) 7 CFR Part 3-USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-129, regarding debt management;

(c) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352), as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin, and 7 CFR part 15, subpart A (USDA implementation);

(d) 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations.

(e) 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.

(f) 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.

(g) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Imposes prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying on awardees of Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and loans.

(h) 2 CFR part 200, subparts B-General Provisions, C-Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards, and D-Post-Federal Award Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(i) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).

(j) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F-Audit Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.

(k) 7 U.S.C. 3318-conferring upon the Secretary general authority to enter into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements to further the research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences of the Department of Agriculture.

(l) 29 U.S.C. 794 (Section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15b (USDA implementation of statute)-prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs.
