
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXVIII - Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 2812 - DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE GUIDELINES FOR THE DONATION OF EXCESS RESEARCH EQUIPMENT UNDER 15 U.S.C. 3710(i)
##### ยง 2812.4 Procedures.

(a) [Reserved]

(b) Each agency head will designate in writing an authorized official to approve donations of excess property/equipment under this part.

(c) After USDA screening has been accomplished, excess personal property targeted for donation under this part will be made available on a first-come, first-served basis. If there are competing requests, donations will be made to eligible recipients in the following priority order:

(1) Educationally useful Federal equipment for pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade educational institutions and community-based educational organizations in rural EZ/EC communities;

(2) Educationally useful Federal equipment for pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade educational institutions and community-based educational organizations not in rural EZ/EC areas;

(3) All other eligible organizations.

(d) Upon reporting property for excess screening, if the pertinent USDA agency has an eligible organization in mind for donation under this part, it shall enter "P.L. 102-245" in the note field. The property will remain in the excess system approximately 30 days, and if no USDA agency or cooperator requests it during the excess cycle, the Departmental Excess Personal Property Coordinator will send the agency a copy of the excess report stamped, "DONATION AUTHORITY TO THE HOLDING AGENCY IN ACCORDANCE WITH P.L. 102-245." The holding USDA agency may then donate the excess property to the eligible organization.

(e) Donations under this Part will be accomplished by preparing a Standard Form (SF) 122, "Transfer Order-Excess Personal Property".

(f) The SF-122 should be signed by both an authorized official of the agency and the Agency Property Management Officer. The following information should also be provided.

(1) Name and address of Donee Institution (Ship to)

(2) Agency name and address (holding Agency)

(3) Location of property

(4) Shipping instructions (Donee contact person)

(5) Complete description of property, including acquisition amount, serial no., condition code, quantity, and agency order no.

(6) This statement needs to be added following property descriptions. "The property requested hereon is certified to be used for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities. This donation is pursuant to the provisions of Pub. L. 102-245."

(g) Once the excess personal property/equipment is physically received, the donee is required to immediately return a copy of the SF-122 to the donating agency indicating receipt of requested items. Cancellations should be reported to DEPPC so the property can be reported to the General Services Administration (GSA).
