
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 36 - PROCEDURES BY WHICH THE AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE DEVELOPS, REVISES, SUSPENDS, OR TERMINATES VOLUNTARY OFFICIAL GRADE STANDARDS
###### ยง 36.3 Public notification of grade standards action.

After developing a standardization proposal, the Agency will publish a notice in thedescribing new or changes to existing standards or to suspend or terminate existing standards. AMS will simultaneously issue a news release about these actions. AMS will also distribute copies of the full text of the proposals to anyone requesting a copy or to anyone the Agency believes may be interested, including other Federal, State, or local government agencies, and on the Internet. For other than minor editorial or technical changes, the notice will provide at least 60 days for interested parties to submit comments to the Agency.

(a) All comments received within the comment period will be part of the public record maintained by the Agency, will be available to the public for review, and will be considered by the Agency before final action is taken on the proposal.

(1) Based on the comments received, the Agency's knowledge of standards, grading, marketing, and other technical factors, and any other relevant information AMS will decide whether the proposed actions should be implemented.

(2) If AMS concludes that the actions as proposed or with minor modifications should be adopted, AMS will publish a description of the changes or actions in anotice. The Agency, through the appropriate AMS Divisions, will make the grade standards and related information available in printed form and electronic media.

(3) If the Agency determines that proposed changes are not warranted, or otherwise are not in the public interest, the Agency will either publish in thea notice withdrawing the proposal, or will revise the proposal and again seek public input.

(b) [Reserved]
