
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Commodity Standards and Container Requirements
##### PART 42 - STANDARDS FOR CONDITION OF FOOD CONTAINERS
###### Subpart B - Procedures for Stationary Lot Sampling and Inspection
####### § 42.105 Basis for selection of sample.
######## Sample size.

(c)Determination of the number of containers to check for condition:

(1) Refer to the table in §§ 42.109 through 42.111 (sampling plans) and find where the lot size (number of individual containers) fits into the column headed "Lot Size Ranges."

(i) Tables I-A (normal), II-A (tightened), or III-A (reduced), as applicable, will apply to origin inspections, unless the contractor requests that corresponding single sampling plans be used.

(ii) The appropriate double sampling plans in Table I will apply to other than origin inspections, unless the contractor requests that corresponding single sampling plans be used.

(2) Select the appropriate sample size for the corresponding lot size range as indicated in the appropriate column headed "Sample Size."

(3) Lots rejected for unsatisfactory condition of containers may be subsequently sampled after being reconditioned or reworked. Such lots or resulting portion of a lot may be sampled as a reoffered lot providing the reoffered portion is separately identifiable. When making such inspections, the appropriate sampling plan for tightened inspection shall be used. Except in the case of an appeal inspection, it is not permissible to reinspect a previously rejected lot until it has been reconditioned or reworked.
