
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXII - Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3202 - VOLUNTARY LABELING PROGRAM FOR BIOBASED PRODUCTS
##### ยง 3202.5 Initial approval process.
###### Term of certification.

(d)(1) The effective date of certification is the date on which the applicant receives a notice of certification from USDA. Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(v) of this section, certifications will remain in effect as long as the product is manufactured and marketed in accordance with the approved application and the requirements of this subpart.

(2)(i) If the product formulation of a certified product is changed such that the biobased content of the product is reduced to a level below that reported in the approved application, the existing certification will not be valid for the product under the revised conditions and the manufacturer or vendor, as applicable, and its designated representatives must discontinue affixing the certification mark to the product and must not initiate any further advertising of the product using the certification mark. USDA will consider a product under such revised conditions to be a reformulated product, and the manufacturer or vendor, as applicable, must submit a new application for certification using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(ii) If the product formulation of a certified product is changed such that the biobased content of the product is increased from the level reported in the approved application, the existing certification will continue to be valid for the product.

(iii) If the applicable required minimum biobased content for a product to be eligible to display the certification mark is revised by USDA, manufacturers and vendors may continue to label their previously certified product only if it meets the new minimum biobased content level. In those cases where the biobased content of a certified product fails to meet the new minimum biobased content level, USDA will notify the manufacturer or vendor that their certification is no longer valid. Such manufacturers and vendors must increase the biobased content of their product to a level at or above the new minimum biobased content level and must re-apply for certification within 60 days if they wish to continue to use the certification mark. Manufacturers and vendors who have re-applied for certification may continue using the existing certification mark until they receive notification from USDA on the results of their re-application for certification.

(iv) All certifications are subject to USDA periodic auditing activities, as described in ยง 3202.10(d). If a manufacturer or vendor of a certified biobased product fails to participate in such audit activities or if such audit activities reveal biobased content violations, as specified in ยง 3202.8(b)(1), the certification will be subject to suspension and revocation according to the procedures specified in ยง 3202.8(c).

(v) If USDA discovers that a certification has been issued for an ineligible biobased product as a result of errors on the part of USDA during the approval process, USDA will notify the product's manufacturer or vendor in writing that the certification is revoked effective 30 days from the date of the notice.
