
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXII - Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3202 - VOLUNTARY LABELING PROGRAM FOR BIOBASED PRODUCTS
##### ยง 3202.7 Requirements associated with the certification mark.
###### Correct usage of the certification mark.

(b)(1) The certification mark can be affixed only to certified biobased products and their associated packaging.

(2) The certification mark may be used in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, Web sites, and promotional and educational materials to distinguish products that are certified for use of the label from those that are not certified. The certification mark may be used in advertisements for both certified biobased products and non-certified/labeled products if the advertisement clearly indicates which products are certified/labeled. Care must be taken to avoid implying that any non-certified products are certified.

(3) The certification mark may be used without reference to a specific certified biobased product only when informing the public about the purpose of the certification mark. For example, the following or similar claim is acceptable: "Look for the 'USDA Certified Biobased Product' certification mark. It means that the product meets USDA standards for the amount of biobased content and the manufacturer or vendor has provided relevant information on the product to be posted on the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site." This exception allows manufacturers, vendors, and other entities to use the certification mark in documents such as corporate reports, but only in an informative manner, not as a statement of product certification.

(4) The certification mark may appear next to a picture of the product(s) or text describing it.

(5) The certification mark must stand alone and not be incorporated into any other certification mark or logo designs.

(6) The certification mark may be used as a watermark provided the use does not violate any usage restrictions specified in this part.

(7) The text portion of the certification mark must be written in English and may not be translated, even when the certification mark is used outside of the United States.
