
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXII - Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3202 - VOLUNTARY LABELING PROGRAM FOR BIOBASED PRODUCTS
##### ยง 3202.7 Requirements associated with the certification mark.
###### Incorrect usage of the certification mark.

(c)(1) The certification mark shall not be used on any product that has not been certified by USDA as a "USDA Certified Biobased Product."

(2) The certification mark shall not be used on any advertisements or informational materials where both certified biobased products and non-certified products are shown unless it is clear that the certification mark applies to only the certified biobased product(s).

(3) The certification mark shall not be used to imply endorsement by USDA or the BioPreferred Program of any particular product, service, or company.

(4) The certification mark shall not be used in any form that could be misleading to the consumer.

(5) The certification mark shall not be used by manufacturers or vendors of certified products in a manner disparaging to USDA or any other government body.

(6) The certification mark shall not be used with an altered certification mark or incorporated into other label or logo designs.

(7) The certification mark shall not be used on business cards, company letterhead, or company stationery.

(8) The certification mark shall not be used in, or as part of, any company name, logo, product name, service, or Web site, except as may be provided for in this part.

(9) The certification mark shall not be used in a manner that violates any of the applicable requirements contained in this part.
