
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXII - Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3202 - VOLUNTARY LABELING PROGRAM FOR BIOBASED PRODUCTS
##### ยง 3202.7 Requirements associated with the certification mark.
###### Placement of the certification mark.

(g)(1) The certification mark can appear directly on a product, its associated packaging, in user manuals, and in other materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, and promotional and educational materials.

(2) The certification mark shall not be placed in a manner that is ambiguous about which product is a certified biobased product or that could indicate certification of a non-certified product.

(3) When used to distinguish a certified biobased product in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, Web sites, and promotional and educational materials, the certification mark must appear near a picture of the product or the text describing it.

(i) If all products on a page are certified biobased products, the certification mark may be placed anywhere on the page.

(ii) If a page contains a mix of certified biobased products and non-certified products, the certification mark shall be placed in close proximity to the certified biobased products. An individual certification mark near each certified biobased product may be necessary to avoid confusion.
