
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXII - Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3203 - GUIDELINES FOR THE TRANSFER OF EXCESS COMPUTERS OR OTHER TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 14220 OF THE 2008 FARM BILL
##### ยง 3203.4 Procedures.

(a) Each agency head will designate, in writing, an authorized official to approve transfers of excess computers or other technical equipment under this part consistent with the Department's policies on personal property management.

(b) Excess computers or other technical equipment must first be internally screened to ensure it is not needed elsewhere in the Department.

(c) To receive information concerning the availability of USDA excess computers or other technical equipment, an eligible recipient's PMO should contact any USDA office near to its location.

(d) The USDA employee responsible for personal property, at the office contacted, will review the request for eligibility of the recipient and the availability of excess computers or other technical equipment. The USDA employee will inform the requestor of the outcome of the review (e.g. eligibility, the availability of excess computers or other technical equipment).

(e) Eligible recipients will express their interest in receiving property under this part by submitting a request, on letterhead paper (electronic copy is acceptable), to a USDA authorized official. All requests must originate from, and be signed by, a representative of an eligible recipient city, town, or local government entity. Requests must include:

(1) Type of excess computers or other technical equipment requested (should include specifications);

(2) Justification for eligibility (see ยง 3203.2);

(3) Contact information of the requestor;

(4) Logistical information such as when and how the property will be picked up; and

(5) Information on the recipient's designated organization (company name, contact person and phone number) that is designated to receive and refurbish the property for the eligible recipient along with a copy of the agreement between the recipient and its designated organization.

(f) Excess computers or other technical equipment should be inspected before the property is transferred or the USDA agency should be contacted to verify the condition of the property.

(g) If the condition of the property is acceptable, the recipient or its designated organization will coordinate with the USDA contact for transfer of the property. Since the USDA agency office may have several requests for property, it is critical that the recipient or its designated organization contact USDA as soon as possible. Property will usually be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis, taking into account fair and equitable distribution of excess computers or other technical equipment to all eligible recipients.

(h) Transfers will be accomplished using the appropriate USDA property transfer form. The transfer form must contain the following statement: "Property listed on this form is being transferred pursuant to the provisions in 7 CFR Part 3203." The form must be signed by an authorized official of the USDA agency and an official of the recipient organization.

(i) A copy of the request that transferred the property must be attached to the transfer order and kept in the USDA agency's files.

(j) When property is transferred to a designated organization, a copy of the completed transfer document will be sent to the eligible recipient government entity for its records. Eligible recipients are responsible for following up with the designated organization they have designated for the final receipt of the property.

(k) In cases where an agency receives competing requests for excess computers or other technical equipment, to the extent permitted by law, the agency shall give full consideration to such factors as national defense requirements, emergency needs, energy conservation, preclusion of new procurement, fair and equitable distribution, transportation costs, and retention of title in the Government.

(l) Prior to transferring any property pursuant to this Act, the transferring agency must remove data from the excess computers or other technical equipment (memory or any kind of data storage device) according to accepted sanitization procedures. To the maximum extent practicable, the transferring agency must remove data using a means that does not remove, disable, destroy, or otherwise render unusable the excess computers or other technical equipment or components. It is imperative that agencies take the necessary steps to ensure that no personal computer, server, external storage device, or related electronic component is transferred that might contain sensitive or confidential information. See Departmental Manual 3575-001, Security Controls in the System Life Cycle/System Development Life Cycle, for additional guidance.
