
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIII - Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3300 - AGREEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE OF PERISHABLE FOODSTUFFS AND ON THE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE USED FOR SUCH CARRIAGE (ATP); INSPECTION, TESTING, AND CERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Approval of Testing Stations
###### ยง 3300.19 Application for approval.

An application by an officer of the organization shall be submitted to the Administrator for each facility for which approval is sought. Copies of the Form, Application for Approval as a U.S. ATP Testing Station, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information must be supplied in the application:

(a) A statement that the organization is incorporated or chartered under the laws of, and that it has its principal office in, the United States, including the name, address, and telephone number of the principal office.

(b) The address and telephone number of the testing station, and name and title of person in charge of the station.

(c) A summary of experience at the facility which would indicate the capability to conduct tests of equipment according to Subpart B of this rule.

(d) A general description of the station, including drawings on letter size (8x 11 inches) paper to show the floor plan and cross-sections of the test chamber, basic dimensions, location of heat exchangers and instruments, and any other pertinent information.

(e) An indication of which of the following types of equipment, as defined in ATP, Annex 1, that the station is capable of testing: intermodal freight containers, semi-trailers, trailers, railcars, and trucks.

(f) A statement that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may, before a decision is made concerning the application, observe a test at the station of a Class "C" mechanically refrigerated container or semi-trailer, with Class "C" being defined as in ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3.

(g) A statement that the station will be open to public use, that is, to manufacturers and owners of equipment which may apply to have equipment tested.

(h) A statement that the fees to be charged by the organization for testing will be reasonable with respect to costs involved, and that such fees will be payable directly to the organization by those who seek testing of their equipment.

(i) A statement that the station will maintain records of basic data developed in each test conducted under this rule, such records to be available for review by the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator upon request. The record for each test shall be maintained for a period of three years.

(j) A statement that the organization will advise the ATP manager as soon as practicable of its intent to conduct a test under this rule and that it will, as soon as possible, advise when a firm test date has been set so that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may observe the test.

(k) A statement that the organization will send to the ATP manager a copy of each test report for equipment tested at the station according to this rule, within 30 days after completion of the test.

(l) A statement that, should any significant change occur in the facility with respect to structure or test equipment as a result of redesign or other cause during the period of approval, the organization will so advise the ATP manager within 30 days after such change.

(m) Any other pertinent information.
