
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIII - Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3300 - AGREEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE OF PERISHABLE FOODSTUFFS AND ON THE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE USED FOR SUCH CARRIAGE (ATP); INSPECTION, TESTING, AND CERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Certification of New Equipment
###### ยง 3300.64 Application for certificate for new equipment produced or assembled in the United States or in a foreign country which is not a contracting party to the ATP.

Application for certification shall be submitted to the ATP manager by an officer in the organization of the owner of the equipment. In the case of equipment manufactured in the United States, application may be made by an officer in the organization of the equipment manufacturer, acting on behalf of the owner. Copies of the Form, Application for U.S. ATP Certificate for New Equipment Produced or Assembled in the United States or in a Foreign Country Which is not a Contracting Party to the ATP, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information must be supplied in the application:

(a) A statement whether the owner is a domestic owner or a foreign owner, with the name, address and telephone number of its principal office, and the name and title of person to contact.

(b) If the operator of the equipment is different from the owner, the name and address of the operator.

(c) Type of equipment (intermodal freight container, semi-trailer, trailer, railcar, or truck).

(d) Total number of units of equipment.

(e) Definition and distinguishing mark of the equipment for which certification is sought, referring to ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3 and Appendix 4.

(f) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal office of the equipment manufacturer, and name and title of the person to contact.

(g) Name and address of the plant at which the equipment was manufactured.
