
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIII - Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3300 - AGREEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE OF PERISHABLE FOODSTUFFS AND ON THE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE USED FOR SUCH CARRIAGE (ATP); INSPECTION, TESTING, AND CERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Certification of New Equipment
###### ยง 3300.58 General.
####### i.e.

(c) For equipment manufactured (, produced or assembled) in the United States:

(1) When the complete unit of equipment is tested, the test shall be performed in a U.S. ATP testing station.

(2) When the mechanical refrigerating appliance and the insulated body are tested separately, such tests shall be performed in approved testing facilities in the United States or in test facilities located in, and approved by, a foreign country which is a Contracting Party.

(d) For equipment manufactured in a foreign country which is a Contracting Party, a domestic owner may receive a U.S. ATP certiticate in exchange for the Foreign-ATP certificate issued by the country of manufacture.

(e) For equipment manufactured in a foreign country which is not a Contracting Party, tests shall be performed in approved testing facilities in the United States or in facilities located in and approved by a foreign country which is a Contracting Party.

(f) In accordance with ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 2(a) and (d), the validity of a test report for a reference equipment shall expire at the end of a period of 3 years or at the end of the manufacture of 1,000 units of serially-produced equipment, whichever occurs first.

(g) The validity of a test report for a reference mechanical refrigerating appliance shall expire at the end of a period of three years, or at the end of the manufacture of 1,000 identical mechanical refrigerating appliances, whichever occurs first.

(h) The validity of a test report for a reference insulated body shall expire at the end of a period of three years, or at the end of the manufacture of 1,000 serially-produced bodies, whichever occurs first.

(i) Serially-produced equipment shall be produced or assembled by the same manufacturer and at the same manufacturing plant as the reference equipment.

(j) Identical mechanical refrigerating appliances shall be manufactured by the same manufacturer and at the same manufacturing plant as the reference mechanical refrigerating appliance.

(k) Serially-produced bodies shall be manufactured by the same manufacturer and at the same manufacturing plant as the reference insulated body.

(l) Equipment manufacturers shall notify the ATP manager 30 days before start of manufacture so that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may observe the manufacturing operation.

(m) Owners who receive a U.S. ATP certificate have the responsibility to manitain the equipment in good repair and operating condition with the understanding that the certificate is valid only so long as:

(1) The insulated body and the thermal appliance are maintained in good condition;

(2) No material alteration is made to the thermal appliance which decreases its refrigerating capacity, and;

(3) If the thermal appliance is replaced, it is replaced by an appliance of equal or greater refrigerating capacity.
