
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIII - Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3300 - AGREEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE OF PERISHABLE FOODSTUFFS AND ON THE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE USED FOR SUCH CARRIAGE (ATP); INSPECTION, TESTING, AND CERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Certification of New Equipment
###### § 3300.64 Application for certificate for new equipment produced or assembled in the United States or in a foreign country which is not a contracting party to the ATP.
####### see

(ii) From the test report, the effective refrigerating capacity, W, in watts, of the appliance at an outside temperature of + 30 &#xB0;C and the inside temperature (ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3 and Appendix 4) for the class of equipment for which certification is sought. "W" must be equal to, or greater than, the increased heat transfer rate, H, for the reference insulated body. See paragraph (3)(iii) below.

(2) For the identical mechanical refrigerating appliances:

(i) Name and address of the plant at which the identical appliances and reference appliance were manufactured.

(ii) The manufacturer's make, model number, and a brief description of the appliances with enclosure of any brochure on the appliances which might be available.

(iii) A statement that the appliances meet the definition of identical mechanical refrigerating appliances.

(3) For the reference insulated body:

(i) The original or certified true copy of the test report.

(ii) The total heat transfer rate of the body, H= S x K x Δ T, in watts, where: "S" is the mean surface area of the body, from the test report; "K" is the heat transfer coefficient of the body, from the test report; and, "Δ T" is the difference in degrees Kelvin between an outside temperature of + 30 &#xB0;C and the inside temperature for the class of equipment for which certification is sought.

(iii) The increased beat transfer rate, H, obtained by multiplying the total heat transfer rate H, by the factor of 1.75.

(4) For the serially-produced insulated bodies:

(i) Name and address of the plant at which the serially-produced bodies and reference body were manufactured.

(ii) The manufacturer's make, model number, and a brief description of the bodies, with any brochure on the bodies which might be available.

(iii) The basis upon which the bodies meet the definition of serially-produced bodies, with respect to the reference insulated body.

(iv) A statement that production of the bodies was in conformity with the reference insulated body.

(j) Information on the equipment after manufacture:

(1) A statement that each mechanical refrigerating appliance, after it was installed in the body, was operated and thoroughly checked and that each appliance functioned properly.

(2) A statement that each body and each appliance has affixed to it a manufacturer's plate or other means of identification which shows the items of information required by ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 6.

(3) A statement that each unit of equipment, before it is put into service, will have affixed to it a certification plate and distinguishing mark as specified in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 4 and 5, and Appendixes 3 and 4.

(4) A list showing, for each unit of equipment, the serial number of the body and the corresponding owner's equipment identification number.
