
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIII - Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3300 - AGREEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE OF PERISHABLE FOODSTUFFS AND ON THE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE USED FOR SUCH CARRIAGE (ATP); INSPECTION, TESTING, AND CERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Certification of Equipment in Service
###### ยง 3300.79 Application for certificate.

An application shall be submitted to the ATP manager by an officer in the organization of the owner of the equipment. Copies of the Form, Application for U.S. ATP Certificate for Equipment in Service, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information is requested in the application:

(a) A statement that the owner is a domestic owner, with the name, address, and telephone number of its principal office, and name and title of person to contact.

(b) If the operator of the equipment is different from the owner, the name and address of the operator.

(c) The type of equipment (intermodal freight container, trailer, semi-trailer, railcar, or truck).

(d) The total number of units of equipment.

(e) The definition of the equipment for which certification is sought, referring to ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3 and Appendix 4.

(f) For equipment which has not been previously certified, one of the following:

(1) For each unit of equipment, the original or certified true copy of the test report, or;

(2) If the equipment is serially-produced by one manufacturer:

(i) Name of manufacturer.

(ii) The original or certified true copy of the test report(s) of 1 percent of the equipment which was tested to serve as reference equipment.

(iii) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.

(g) For renewal of a U.S. ATP Certificate which is nearing its expiration date:

(1) The original or certified true copy of that certificate, and;

(2) One of the following, (i) (ii), or (iii):

(i) For each unit of equipment, the original or certified true copy of the test report.

(ii) If the equipment is serially-produced by one manufacturer:

(A) Name of manufacturer.

(B) The original or certified true copy of the test report(s) of 1 percent of the equipment which was tested to serve as reference equipment.

(C) A report of inspection from each unit of equipment.

(iii) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.

(h) For equipment which is currently certified according to a U.S. ATP certificate, and which has been transferred from one domestic owner to another:

(1) The original or certified true copy of that certificate.

(2) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.

(i) For equipment which is currently certified according to a Foreign-ATP certificate, and which has been transferred from a foreign owner to a domestic owner:

(1) The original or certified true copy of the test report for the reference equipment.

(2) The original or certified true copy of the Foreign-ATP certificate.

(3) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.

(j) A statement that each unit of equipment has, or will have, affixed to it a certification plate and distinguishing mark as prescribed in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 4 and 5, and Appendices 3 and 4.

(k) A list showing, for each unit of equipment, the serial number of the body and the corresponding owner's equipment identification number.
