
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIII - Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3300 - AGREEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE OF PERISHABLE FOODSTUFFS AND ON THE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE USED FOR SUCH CARRIAGE (ATP); INSPECTION, TESTING, AND CERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Certification of New Equipment
###### ยง 3300.67 Application for certificate for new equipment produced or assembled in a foreign country which is a contracting party to the ATP.

An application for certification of equipment shall be submitted to the ATP manager by an officer in the organization of the owner of the equipment. Copies of the Form, Application for U.S. ATP Certificate for New Equipment Produced or Assembled in a Foreign Country Which is a Contracting Party, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information must be submitted in the application:

(a) A statement that the owner is a domestic owner, with the name, address and telephone number of its principal office, and the name and title of the person to contact.

(b) If the operator of the equipment is different from the owner, the name and address of the operator.

(c) The type of equipment (intermodal freight container, trailer, semi-trailer, railcar, or truck.)

(d) Total number of units of equipment.

(e) Definition of the equipment for which certification is sought, referring to ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3, and Appendix 4.

(f) Name, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer of the equipment, and the name and title of the person to contact.

(g) The manufacturer's make and model number for the equipment, including a brief description of the equipment and any brochure on the equipment which might be available.

(h) The original or certified true copy of the test report for the reference equipment.

(i) The original or certified true copy of the Foreign-ATP certificate issued for the equipment.

(j) A statement that each unit of equipment, before it is put into service, will have affixed to it a certification plate and distinguishing mark as specified in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 4 and 5, and Appendixes 3 and 4.

(k) A list showing, for each unit of equipment, the serial number of the body and the corresponding owner's equipment identification number.
