
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3401 - RANGELAND RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3401.8 Grant awards.
####### Continuation grant.

(3)This is a grant instrument by which the Department agrees to support a specified level of effort for a predetermined period of time with a statement of intention to provide additional support at a future date, provided that performance has been satisfactory, appropriations are available for this purpose, and continued support would be in the best interests of the Federal government and the public. It involves a long-term research project that is considered by peer reviewers and Departmental officers to have an unusually high degree of scientific merit, the results of which are expected to have a significant impact on the productivity of the Nation's rangelands, and it supports the efforts of experienced scientists with records of outstanding research accomplishments. This kind of document normally will be awarded for an initial one-year period and any subsequent continuation research project grants also will be awarded in one-year increments, but in no case may the cumulative period of the project exceed the statutory limit. The award of a continuation research project grant to fund an initial or succeeding budget period does not constitute an obligation to fund any subsequent budget period. A grantee must submit a separate application for continued support for each subsequent fiscal year. Requests for such continued support must be submitted in duplicate at least three months prior to the expiration date of the budget period currently being funded. Such requests must include: an interim progress report detailing all work performed to date; an Application for Funding; a proposed budget for the enuring period, including an estimate of funds anticipated to remain unobligated at the end of the current budget period; and current information regarding other extramural support for senior personnel. Decisions regarding continued support and the actual funding levels of such support in future years usually will be made administratively after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices and within the context of available funds. Since initial peer reviews were based upon the full term and scope of the original rangeland research application for funding, additional evaluations of this type generally are not required prior to successive years' support. However, in unusual cases (e.g., when the nature of the project or key personnel change or when the amount of future support requested substantially exceeds the application for funding originally reviewed and approved), additional reviews may be required prior to approval of continued funding.
