
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3403 - SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Information
###### ยง 3403.3 Eligibility requirements.
####### Eligibility of organization.

(a)(1) To receive SBIR funds, each awardee of a SBIR Phase I or Phase II must qualify as a small business concern.

(2) For Phase I, a minimum of two-thirds of the research or analytical effort, as measured by the budget, must be performed by the awardee. Occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur, and must be approved in writing by the ADO after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader.

(3) For Phase II, a minimum of one-half of the research or analytical effort, as measured by the budget, must be performed by the awardee. Occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur, and must be approved in writing by the ADO after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader.

(4) For both Phase I and Phase II, the primary employment of the principal investigator must be with the SBC at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. Primary employment means that more than one-half of the principal investigator's time is spent in the employ of the SBC. This precludes full-time employment with another organization. Occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur, and must be approved in writing by the ADO after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader. Further, an SBC may replace the principal investigator on an SBIR Phase I or Phase II award, subject to approval in writing by the ADO after consultation with the SBIR National Program Leader. For purposes of the SBIR Program, personnel obtained through a Professional Employer Organization or other similar personnel leasing company must be considered employees of the awardee. This is consistent with SBA's size regulations, 13 CFR 121.106-Small Business Size Regulations.

(5) For both Phase I and Phase II, the R/R&D must be performed in the United States. However, based on a rare and unique circumstance, ADO approval may be granted to perform a particular portion of the research or research and development work outside of the United States, for example, if a supply of material or other item or project requirement is not available in the United States. The ADO, after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader, must approve each such specific condition in writing.

(b) [Reserved]
