
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3403 - SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Preparation of Proposals
###### ยง 3403.6 Content of proposals.
####### i.e.

(b) Proposals must cover only scientific/technological research activities. A small business concern must not propose product development, technical assistance, demonstration projects, classified research, or patent applications. Many of the research projects supported by the SBIR program lead to the development of new products based upon the research results obtained during the project. However, projects that seek funding solely for product development where no research is involved,, funds are needed to permit the development of a project based on previously completed research, will not be accepted. Literature surveys should be conducted prior to preparing proposals for submission and must not be proposed as a part of the SBIR Phase I or Phase II effort. Proposals principally for the development of proven concepts toward commercialization or for market research should not be submitted since such efforts are considered the responsibility of the private sector and therefore are not supported by USDA.

(c) A proposal must be limited to only one topic. The same proposal may not be submitted under more than one topic as defined in the solicitation. However, an organization may submit separate proposals on the same topic. Where similar research is discussed under more than one topic, the proposer should choose that topic whose description appears most relevant to the proposer's research concept. USDA will not consider funding duplicate (essentially equivalent work) proposals. In addition, essentially equivalent work funded by another entity will be returned to the applicant without review.
