
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3403 - SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Preparation of Proposals
###### ยง 3403.7 Proposal format for phase I applications.
####### Similar Proposals or Awards.

(9)(i) WARNING-While it is permissible with proposal notification to submit identical proposals containing a significant amount of essentially equivalent work for consideration under numerous Federal program solicitations, it is unlawful to enter into funding agreements requiring essentially equivalent work. If there is any question concerning this, it must be disclosed to the soliciting agency or agencies before award. If an applicant elects to submit identical proposals or proposals containing a significant amount of essentially equivalent work under other Federal program solicitations, a statement must be included in each such proposal indicating:

(A) Name and address of the agency(ies) to which the proposal was submitted, or will be submitted, or from which an award is expected or has been received.

(B) Date of actual or anticipated proposal submission or date of award, as appropriate.

(C) Title of proposal or award, identifying number assigned to the solicitation or proposal by the agency involved, and the date the proposal(s) were submitted or the award was received.

(D) Applicable research topic area for each proposal submitted or award received.

(E) Titles of research projects.

(F) Name and title of principal investigator for each proposal submitted or award received.
