
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3403 - SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Supplementary Information
###### ยง 3403.14 Use of funds; changes.
####### Use of Change of Name and Novation Agreement.

(e)(1) Occasionally, after an award has been made the name of the Awardee may change. NIFA requires execution of a "Change of Name Agreement" in such instances. The specific circumstances of each situation will determine which kind of agreement should be executed. This decision will be determined by the ADO.

(i) A Change of Name Agreement is a legal instrument executed by the Awardee and the Government that recognizes a change of the legal name of the Awardee without disturbing the original rights and obligations of the parties. If only a change of the Awardee's name is involved and the Government's and Awardee's rights and obligations remain unaffected, the parties should execute an agreement to reflect the name change.

(ii) In order to execute the actual Change of Name Agreement with USDA, the Awardee is required to submit the following information:

(A) The document effecting the name change, authenticated by a proper official of the State having jurisdiction;

(B) The opinion of the Grantee's legal counsel stating that the change of name was properly effected under applicable law and showing the effective date;

(C) A list of all affected awards between the Grantee and NIFA.

(iii) When NIFA is notified that a change of name has taken place, the ADO will request the aforementioned information from the Grantee. Upon receipt and review of this information, parties will properly execute a Change of Name Agreement and the appropriate changes will be made to the Agency's records. The following suggested format for an agreement may be adapted for specific cases:

(2) From time to time the legal entity performing the research under the award may have to be changed. In such instances, USDA will ensure that all parties properly execute a Novation Agreement (Successor in Interest Agreement).

(i) A Novation Agreement is a legal instrument executed by the Grantee (transferor), the successor in interest (transferee), and the Government by which, among other things, the transferor guarantees performance of the award, the transferee assumes all obligations under the award, and the Government recognizes the transfer of the award and related assets. This occurs when the third party's interest in the award arises out of the transfer of all the Grantee's assets or the entire portion of the assets involved in performing the award. Examples include, but are not limited to: the sale of these assets with a provision for assuming liabilities; the transfer of these assets incident to a merger or corporate consolidation; and the incorporation of a proprietorship or partnership, or the formation of a partnership.

(ii) When a Grantee asks the Government to recognize a successor in interest, the responsible ADO shall obtain the following from the Grantee:

(A) An authenticated copy of the instrument effecting the transfer of assets; e.g., bill of sale, certificate of merger, contract, deed, agreement, or court decree;

(B) A list of all affected awards;

(C) A certified copy of each resolution of the corporate parties' boards of directors authorizing the transfer of assets;

(D) A certified copy of the minutes of each corporate party's stockholder meeting necessary to approve the transfer of assets;

(E) The opinion of legal counsel for the transferor and transferee stating that the transfer was properly effected under applicable law and the effective date of transfer;

(F) An authenticated copy of the transferee's certificate and articles of incorporation, if a corporation was formed for the purpose of receiving the assets involved in performing the Government award;

(G) Evidence of transferee's capability to perform the award; and

(H) Balance sheets of the transferor and transferee as of the dates immediately before and after the transfer of assets, certified for accuracy by independent accountants.

(iii) The ADO will review the Agency's financial records concerning the correct cash-on-hand balances held by the transferor to ensure that they are properly accounted for in the transfer process. If recognizing a successor in interest to a Government award is consistent with the Government's interest, the ADO will prepare a Novation Agreement for execution by all three parties. The agreement will provide that:

(A) The transferee assumes all the transferor's obligations under the award(s);

(B) The transferor waives all rights under the award against the Government;

(C) The transferor guarantees performance of the award by the transferee (a satisfactory performance bond may be accepted instead of the guarantee); and

(D) Nothing in the agreement shall relieve the transferor or transferee from compliance with any Federal law.

(E) The following suggested format for an agreement may be adapted for specific cases:
