
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3403 - SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Supplementary Information
###### ยง 3403.14 Use of funds; changes.
####### Changes in Project Plans.

(b)(1) The permissible changes by the grantee, Project Director, or other key project personnel in the approved project grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other similar aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the Project Director (PD) is uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO) for a final determination. The signatory of the award document is the ADO, not the program contact.

(2) Changes in approved goals or objectives shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved which are outside the scope of the original approved project.

(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes.

(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such transfers, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of the grant.
