
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3403 - SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Supplementary Information
###### ยง 3403.14 Use of funds; changes.
####### Changes in Project Period.

(c)The project period may be extended by NIFA without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the ADO determines may be necessary to complete or fulfill the purposes of an approved project provided Federal funds remain. Any extension of time shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the ADO unless otherwise noted in the award terms and conditions. In such cases the extension will not normally exceed 12 months. The Phase I award will still be limited to the approved award amount, and the submission of a Phase II proposal will normally be delayed by no more than one year. The extension allows the grantee to continue expending the remaining Federal funds for the intended purpose over the extension period. In instances where no Federal funds remain, it is unnecessary to approve an extension since the purpose of the extension is to continue using Federal funds. The grantee may opt to continue the Phase I project after the grant's termination and closeout, however, the grantee would have to do so without additional Federal funds. In the latter case, no communication with USDA is necessary.
