
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3405 - HIGHER EDUCATION CHALLENGE GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Preparation of a Proposal
###### ยง 3405.11 Content of a proposal.
####### Proposal cover page.

(a)(1) Form NIFA-712, "Higher Education Proposal Cover Page," must be completed in its entirety. Note that providing a Social Security Number is voluntary, but is an integral part of the NIFA information system and will assist in the processing of the proposal.

(2) One copy of the Form NIFA-712 must contain the pen-and-ink signatures of the Project Director(s) and authorized organizational representative for the applicant institution.

(3) The title of the project shown on the "Higher Education Proposal Cover Page" must be brief (80-character maximum) yet represent the major thrust of the project. This information will be used by the Department to provide information to the Congress and other interested parties.

(4) In block 7. of Form NIFA-712, enter "Higher Education Challenge Grants Program."

(5) In block 8.a. of Form NIFA-712, enter "Teaching." In block 8.b. identify the code for the targeted need area(s) as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple targeted need areas, enter each code associated with the project and place an asterisk (*) immediately following the code for the primary targeted need area. In block 8.c. identify the major area(s) of emphasis as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple areas of emphasis, enter each code associated with the project. This information will be used by program staff for the proper assignment of proposals to peer reviewers.

(6) In block 9. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a complementary project proposal or a joint project proposal as defined in ยง 3405.2(g) and ยง 3405.2(m), respectively, of this part. If it is not a complementary project proposal or a joint project proposal, identify it as a regular project proposal.

(7) In block 13. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a new, first-time submission or if the proposal is a resubmission of a proposal that has been submitted to, but not funded under, the Higher Education Challenge Grants Program in a previous competition.
