
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3406 - 1890 INSTITUTION CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Preparation of a Research Proposal
###### ยง 3406.16 Scope of a research proposal.
####### Studies and experimentation in food and agricultural sciences.

(a)(1) The purpose of this initiative is to advance the body of knowledge in those basic and applied natural and social sciences that comprise the food and agricultural sciences.

(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:

(i) Conduct plant or animal breeding programs to develop better crops, forests, or livestock (e.g., more disease resistant, more productive, yielding higher quality products).

(ii) Conceive, design, and evaluate new bioprocessing techniques for eliminating undesirable constituents from or adding desirable ones to food products.

(iii) Propose and evaluate ways to enhance utilization of the capabilities and resources of food and agricultural institutions to promote rural development (e.g., exploitation of new technologies by small rural businesses).

(iv) Identify control factors influencing consumer demand for agricultural products.

(v) Analyze social, economic, and physiological aspects of nutrition, housing, and life-style choices, and of community strategies for meeting the changing needs of different population groups.

(vi) Other high-priority areas such as human nutrition, sustainable agriculture, biotechnology, agribusiness management and marketing, and aquaculture.
