
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart L - Procedures Related to Administrative Hearings Under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986
##### ยง 1.340 Stay pending appeal.

(a) A decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the judicial officer.

(b) The respondent may file with the ALJ a request for stay of the effective date of a decision of the judicial officer pending judicial review. Such request shall state the grounds upon which respondent relies in requesting the stay, together with a copy of the notice(s) of appeal filed by respondent seeking review of a decision of the judicial officer. The filing of such a request shall automatically stay the effective date of the decision of the judicial officer until the ALJ rules upon the request.

(c) The representative for the USDA may file an opposition to respondent's request for a stay within 10 days of receipt of the request. If the representative for the USDA fails to file such an opposition within the allotted time, or indicates that the USDA has no objection to the request, the ALJ may grant the stay without requiring respondent to give a bond or other security.

(d) The ALJ may grant a contested request where justice so requires and to the extent necessary to prevent irreparable harm but only upon the respondent's giving of a bond or other adequate security. The ALJ shall rule promptly on a contested request for stay.

(e) A decision of the ALJ denying respondent's request for a stay shall constitute final agency action.
