
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3415 - BIOTECHNOLOGY RISK ASSESSMENT RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3415.4 How to apply for a grant.
####### Personnel support.

(8)To assist peer reviewers in assessing the competence and experience of the proposed project staff, key personnel who will be involved in the proposed project must be identified clearly. For each principal investigator involved, and for all senior associates and other professional personnel who expect to work on the project, whether or not funds are sought for their support, the following should be included:

(i) An estimate of the time commitments necessary;

(ii) Curriculum vitae. The curriculum vitae should be limited to a presentation of academic and research credentials, e.g., educational, employment and professional history, and honors and awards. Unless pertinent to the project, to personal status, or to the status of the organization, meetings attended, seminars given, or personal data such as birth date, marital status, or community activities should not be included. The vitae shall be no more than two pages each in length, excluding the publication lists. The Department reserves the option of not forwarding for further consideration a proposal in which each vitae exceeds the two-page limit; and

(iii) Publication List(s). A chronological list of all publications in referred journals during the past five years, including those in press, must be provided for each professional project member for whom a curriculum vitae is provided. Authors should be listed in the same order as they appear on each paper cited, along with the title and complete reference as these items usually appear in journals.
