
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3415 - BIOTECHNOLOGY RISK ASSESSMENT RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 3415.7 Use of funds; changes.
####### Change in project plans.

(b)(1) The permissible changes by the grantee, principal investigator(s), or other key project personnel in the approved grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the principal investigator(s) is uncertain whether a particular change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, for a final determination.

(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes. Normally, no requests for such changes that are outside the scope of the original approved project will be approved.

(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes.

(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant.
