
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3430 - COMPETITIVE AND NONCOMPETITIVE NON-FORMULA FEDERAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS - GENERAL AWARD ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Pre-award: Solicitation and Application
###### ยง 3430.12 Requests for applications.
####### General.,i.e.

(a)For each competitive and noncompetitive non-formula program, NIFA will prepare a program solicitation (also called a request for applications (RFA)), in accordance with appendix I to 2 CFR part 200, establishing a standard format for Federal agency announcements (, program solicitations or RFAs) of funding opportunities under programs that award discretionary grants or cooperative agreements. This policy directive requires the content of the RFA to be organized in a sequential manner beginning with overview information followed by the full text of the announcement and will apply unless superseded by statute or another OMB policy directive. The RFA may include all or a portion of the following items:

(1) Contact information.

(2) Directions for interested stakeholders or beneficiaries to submit written comments in a published program solicitation or RFA.

(3) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number.

(4) Legislative authority and background information.

(5) Purpose, priorities, and fund availability.

(6) Program-specific eligibility requirements.

(7) Program-specific restrictions on the use of funds, if Applicable.

(8) Matching requirements, if applicable.

(9) Acceptable types of applications.

(10) Types of projects to be given priority consideration, including maximum anticipated awards and maximum project lengths, if applicable.

(11) Program areas, if applicable.

(12) Funding restrictions, if applicable.

(13) Directions for obtaining additional requests for applications and application forms.

(14) Information about how to obtain application forms and the instructions for completing such forms.

(15) Instructions and requirements for submitting applications, including submission deadline(s).

(16) Explanation of the application evaluation Process.

(17) Specific evaluation criteria used in the review Process.
