
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Accounts and Records (General)
####### ยง 46.14 General.

(a) Every commission merchant, dealer, and broker shall prepare and preserve for a period of two years from the closing date of the transaction the accounts, records, and memoranda required by the Act, which shall fully and correctly disclose all transactions involved in his business. Licensees shall keep records which are adapted to the particular business that the licensee is conducting and in each case such records shall fully disclose all transactions in the business in sufficient detail as to be readily understood and audited. It is impracticable to specify in detail every class of records which may be found essential since many different types of business are conducted in the produce industry and many different types of contracts are made covering a wide range of services by agents and others. The responsibility is placed on every licensee to maintain records which will disclose all essential facts regarding the transactions in his business.

(b) Every commission merchant, dealer, and broker shall prepare and preserve records and memoranda required by the Act which shall fully and correctly disclose the true ownership and management of such business during the preceding four years. Such records shall include the number and location of all branches or additional business facilities operated by or for the commission merchant, dealer or broker. In the case of a corporation, such records shall include the corporate charter, record of stock subscription and stock issued, the amounts paid in for stock and minutes of stockholders' and directors' meetings showing the election of directors and officers, resignations and other pertinent corporate actions. In the case of a partnership, the records shall contain a copy of the partnership agreement showing the type of partnership, the full names and addresses of all partners including general, special or limited partners, the partnership interest of each individual and any other pertinent records of the partnership.
