
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Auction Sales
####### ยง 46.25 Auction sales.

Commission merchants, dealers and brokers who offer produce for sale through auction companies which publish catalogs of offerings will be responsible for furnishing the auction company for publication true and correct information concerning the ownership of the produce. When the produce is offered for sale by an owner, his name shall be shown in the catalog listing as owner. When a joint account partner makes an offering, his name as well as that of his joint partner, or partners, shall be shown. When any person offers produce for sale at auction for the account of another, the name, or names of the owner, if known, and of his principal shall be shown. In addition to listing such name or names he may show that he is acting in the capacity of agent. If a person instructs an auction company to catalog a shipment without disclosing true ownership, if known, or the name of an agent's principal, he shall be deemed to have made a false or misleading statement within the meaning of the Act. Since sales at auctions normally involve additional expenses, a broker, grower's agent or commission merchant shall have prior consent from his principal before such disposition is accomplished. Where a dispute exists regarding the ownership of produce, it may be listed in the auction catalog as being offered for sale "for the account of whom concerned" with the name of the party making the offering shown as agent.
