
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Brokers
####### ยง 46.28 Duties of brokers.
######## General.

(a)The function of a broker is to facilitate good faith negotiations between parties which lead to valid and binding contracts. A broker who fails to perform any specification or duty, express or implied, in connection with any transaction is in violation of the Act, is subject to the penalties specified in the Act, and may be held liable for damages which accrue as a result of the violation. It shall be the duty of the broker to fully inform the parties concerning all proposed terms and conditions of the proposed contract. After all parties agree on the terms and the contract is effected, the broker shall prepare in writing and deliver promptly to all parties a properly executed confirmation or memorandum of sale setting forth truly and correctly all of the essential details of the agreement between the parties, including any express agreement as to the time when payment is due. The confirmation or memorandum of sale shall also identify the party who engaged the broker to act in the negotiations. If the confirmation or memorandum of sale does not contain such information, the broker shall be presumed to have been engaged by the buyer. Brokers do not normally act as general agents of either party, and will not be presumed to have so acted. Unless otherwise agreed and confirmed, the broker will be entitled to payment of brokerage fees from the party by whom it was engaged to act as broker. The broker shall retain a copy of such confirmations or memoranda as part of its accounts and records. The broker who does not prepare these documents and retain copies in its files is failing to prepare and maintain complete and correct records as required by the Act. The broker who does not deliver copies of these documents to all parties involved in the transaction is failing to perform its duties as a broker. A broker who issues a confirmation or memorandum of sale containing false or misleading statements shall be deemed to have committed a violation of section 2 of the Act. If the broker's records do not support its contentions that a binding contract was made with proper notice to the parties, the broker may be held liable for any loss or damage resulting from such negligence, or for other penalties provided by the Act for failing to perform its express or implied duties. The broker shall take into consideration the time of delivery of the shipment involved in the contract, and all other circumstances of the transaction, in selecting the proper method for transmitting the written confirmation or memorandum of sale to the parties. A buying broker is required to truly and correctly account to its principal in accordance with ยง 46.2(y)(3). The broker should advise the appropriate party promptly when any notice of rejection or breach is received, or of any other unforeseen development of which it is informed.
