
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXIV - National Institute of Food and Agriculture
#### PART 3431 - VETERINARY MEDICINE LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Administration of the Veterinary Medicine Loan Repayment Program
###### ยง 3431.16 Certifications and verifications.

(a) The application for the loan repayment program shall include a personal statement describing how the applicant would meet the requirements of:

(1) The veterinary service shortage situations as defined in the RFA;

(2) The eligibility criteria for application of section ยง 3431.9 of this part; and

(3) The selection priority of ยง 3431.14 of this part.

(b) The applicant shall provide sufficient documentation to establish that the applicant has qualifying loans as described in ยง 3431.15 of this part.

(c) The applicant shall provide sufficient documentation to establish that the applicant has the capacity to secure an offer of employment or establish and/or maintain a veterinary practice in a veterinary service shortage situation as defined in subpart A of this part.

(d) The applicant shall provide, if applicable, sufficient documentation to establish that the applicant is licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the jurisdiction in which the applicant has an offer of employment.

(e) The applicant shall provide, if applicable, the required documentation to establish whether the applicant receives payments under any other Federal, State, institutional, or private loan repayment programs.

(f) The applicant shall provide the required documentation to show that he/she has completed, or is in the process of completing, the National Veterinary Accreditation Program (NVAP) if national accreditation is required for the veterinary shortage position for which the applicant has an offer of employment.

(g) The applicant shall provide authorization to the appropriate staff as designated by the Secretary to obtain a copy of the participant's credit report.
