
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Brokers
####### ยง 46.28 Duties of brokers.
######## Broker's responsibility for payment.

(c)In the absence of a specific agreement, a broker is not responsible for payment to the seller by the buyer. Agreement to collect from the buyer and remit to the seller is not a guarantee by the broker that the buyer will pay for the produce purchased, unless there is a specific agreement by the broker that he will pay if the buyer does not pay. A broker who agrees to collect funds from the buyer for his principal shall render an itemized accounting to the principal promptly on receipt of payment showing the true gross selling price, all brokerage fees deducted and all expenses including auction charges, incurred in connection with the sale of the shipment. The failure to account truly and correctly and make full payment promptly is a violation of the Act. While the broker is not obliged to furnish his principal information regarding the financial condition of the buyer, if the broker furnishes such information, he must truthfully report the information available to him, and any false or misleading statements for a fraudulent purpose to the principal to encourage the sale will be a violation of the Act. A buying broker who negotiates a purchase in his own name under an agreement with his principal, is responsible for payment of the purchase price to the seller. A broker has no authority to grant allowances or adjust the seller's invoice price to the buyer without the specific prior approval of his principal.
