
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Brokers
####### ยง 46.28 Duties of brokers.
######## Filing carrier claims by brokers.

(e)Without prior consent of the owner, a broker has no authority to file claims with carriers in his own name or any other name. A broker has no obligation to file carrier claims for the owners of the shipments. However, when a broker in a transaction receives information valuable to the owner in connection with carrier claim rights, the broker should promptly advise the owner. A broker who agrees to protect the carrier claims of owners shall at all times exercise reasonable care to fulfill such obligation. If a broker makes an agreement with a seller or a buyer to file and handle such a claim for the benefit of the owner of the produce, the claim shall be filed promptly with the carrier, supported by adequate evidence, and he shall take the necessary action to bring the matter to a conclusion. A copy of the claim shall be forwarded to the owner of the shipment when the claim is filed. When settlement of the claim is effected, the broker shall promptly remit the net amount due the owner, after deducting the agreed or customary charges for handling the claim. Adequate information shall be furnished the owner regarding the claim while the matter is being handled with the carrier. If the owner files the claim, the broker shall promptly furnish any necessary information available in his records which is requested by the owner.
