
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Receiving Market Commission Merchants and Joint Account Partners
####### ยง 46.29 Duties.
######## General.

(a)All licensees who accept produce for sale on consignment or on joint account are required to exercise reasonable care and diligence in disposing of the produce promptly and in a fair and reasonable manner. A commission merchant engaged to sell consigned produce may not employ another person or firm, including auction companies, to dispose of all or part of such produce without the specific prior authority of the consignor. A commission merchant is not authorized to sell consigned produce outside the market area where he is located without obtaining the permission of the consignor. Averaging or pooling of sales is not permissible unless the receiver obtains the specific written permission of the consignor prior to rendering the accounting. Complete and detailed records shall be prepared and maintained by all commission merchants and joint account partners covering produce received, sales, quantities lost, dates and cost of repacking or reconditioning, unloading, handling, freight, demurrage or auction charges, and any other expenses which are deducted on the accounting, in accordance with the provisions of ยง 46.18 through ยง 46.23. When rendering account sales for produce handled for or on behalf of another, an accurate and itemized report of sales and expenses charged against the shipment shall be made. It is a violation of section 2 of the Act to fail to render true and correct accountings in connection with consignments or produce handled on joint account. Charges which cannot be supported by proper evidence in the records of the commission merchant or joint account partner shall not be deducted. The commission merchant or joint account partner may be held liable for any financial loss and for other penalties provided by the Act, due to his negligence or failure to perform any specification or duty, express or implied, arising out of any transaction subject to the Act.
