
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Receiving Market Commission Merchants and Joint Account Partners
####### ยง 46.29 Duties.
######## Filing carrier claims.,Provided,

(d)Without the prior consent of the owner of the produce, a commission merchant has no authority to file claims with carriers in his own name or any other name:That the commission merchant may file a claim for breakage where the owner has been paid for the full value of the produce without any deduction for damage. Commission merchants have no obligation to file carrier claims on shipments for the owners. However, when a commission merchant in a transaction receives information valuable to the consignor in connection with carrier claim rights, the commission merchant should promptly advise the consignor. Before a commission merchant files a carrier claim on a consigned shipment, a specific agreement shall be reached with the consignor. If a commission merchant is authorized and agrees to file the claim, he shall forward a copy of the claim filed with the carrier to the consignor and shall exercise reasonable care to protect the interests of the consignor by filing the claim promptly and in the proper amount, supported by adequate evidence, and shall take the necessary action to bring the matter to a conclusion. When settlement of the claim is effected, he shall promptly remit the net amount due the consignor, after deducting the agreed handling charges. Full and complete information shall be furnished the consignor while the claim is being handled. If the consignor is to file the claim, the commission merchant shall exercise reasonable care to protect the claim rights of the consignor and shall promptly furnish all necessary information and evidence from his records to enable the consignor to file a proper claim. A joint account partner who files a carrier claim on behalf of the partnership shall forward a copy of the claim filed with the carrier to his partner, keep him advised of its status, and remit promptly his share of the net proceeds realized from such claim.
