
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Growers' Agents and Shippers
####### ยง 46.30 Types of operations by growers' agents and shippers.

(a) The usual operations of shippers consist of purchasing produce from growers in their own names. They distribute the produce in commerce by selling, consigning, or jointing the shipments, assuming any loss or profits that result from these operations. In addition, shippers may handle produce on joint account with growers or others.

(b) Growers' agents sell and distribute produce for or on behalf of growers and others and, in addition, may perform a wide variety of services, such as financing, planting, harvesting, grading, packing, furnishing labor, seed, containers, and other supplies or services. They usually distribute the produce in their own names and collect payment direct from the consignees. They render accountings to their principals, paying the net proceeds after deducting their expenses and fees. Some agents are limited by contract to making only sales and cannot joint or consign produce without obtaining the prior consent of the growers. Other agents are granted blanket authority by the growers to market and distribute the produce, using their discretion as to the best methods, depending on market conditions and the quality of the produce available. They can sell, consign or ship on joint account, use the services of brokers or sell through terminal market auctions. They are authorized to grant credits, make adjustments in the invoice price, handle claims with the carriers, or even abandon shipments, when circumstances justify such action, without consulting the growers. Some agents have an agreement with the growers to pool the produce and render accountings on the basis of the average or prorated selling prices after deducting the prorated expenses incurred for the various operations performed and the agents' selling fees. Some agents's contracts require an accounting on the basis of actual selling prices after deducting the actual expenses incurred for services performed and the selling fees. Some agents' contracts specify a fixed charge for harvesting, grading, packing, furnishing the container or other services, plus a selling fee, and thereby substantially reduce the record requirements necessary to prove the cost of the various operations.
