
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Growers' Agents and Shippers
####### ยง 46.31 Duties of shippers.
######## Joint accounts with growers.

(d)When a shipper enters into a joint account transaction with growers or others, the agreement between the parties should be reduced to a written contract clearly defining the duties and responsibilities of both parties and the extent of the shipper's authority in distributing the produce. The shipper shall prepare and maintain records to show in detail the actual expenses incurred for the services he furnishes, such as harvesting, grading, packing and selling the produce (unless a fixed charge is agreed upon by the parties to cover the cost of these services), methods of distribution and proceeds received for the produce. If a shipper is at the same time handling similar produce not involved in the joint account transaction, a lot number or other positive means of identification shall be assigned to each lot of produce received in order to segregate and identify the various lots of produce. If a shipper consigns all or part of the produce or employs the services of brokers or terminal market auctions, his records shall show the results of these transactions, including the expenses involved and the names and addresses of the commission merchants, brokers, and the auctions. The shipper shall render a detailed and accurate accounting and pay promptly the net proceeds due the joint partner, in accordance with ยง 46.2(y), (z), and (aa). The accounting shall disclose the status of all claims collected or filed with the carriers.
