
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Section 502 Origination
###### ยง 3550.52 Loan purposes.
####### Eligible costs.

(d)Improvements financed with loan funds must be on land which, after closing, is part of the security property. In addition to acquisition, construction, repairs, or the cost of relocating a dwelling, loan funds may be used to pay for:

(1) Reasonable expenses related to obtaining the loan, including legal, architectural and engineering, technical, title clearance, and loan closing fees; and appraisal, surveying, environmental, tax monitoring, and other technical services; and personal liability insurance fees for Mutual Self-Help borrowers.

(2) The cost of providing special design features or equipment when necessary because of a physical disability of the applicant or a member of the household.

(3) Reasonable connection fees, assessments, or the pro rata installment costs for utilities such as water, sewer, electricity, and gas for which the borrower is liable and which are not paid from other funds.

(4) Reasonable and customary lender charges and fees if the RHS loan is being made in combination with a leveraged loan.

(5) Real estate taxes that are due and payable on the property at the time of closing and for the establishment of escrow accounts for real estate taxes, hazard and flood insurance premiums, and related costs.

(6) Packaging fees resulting from the certified loan application packaging process outlined in ยง 3550.75. The Agency will determine the limit, based on factors such as the level of service provided and the prevailing cost to provide the service, and such cap will not exceed two percent of the national average area loan limit. Nominal packaging fees not resulting from the certified loan application process are an eligible cost provided the fee does not exceed a limit determined by the Agency based on the level and cost of service factors, but no greater than one half percent of the national average area loan limit; the loan application packager is a nonprofit, tax exempt partner that received an exception to all or part of the requirements outlined in ยง 3550.75 from the applicable Rural Development State Director; and the packager gathers and submits the information needed for the Agency to determine if the applicant is eligible along with a fully completed and signed uniform residential loan application.

(7) Purchasing and installing essential equipment in the dwelling, including ranges, refrigerators, washers or dryers, if these items are normally sold with dwellings in the area and if the purchase of these items is not the primary purpose of the loans.

(8) Purchasing and installing approved energy savings measures and approved furnaces and space heaters that use fuel that is commonly used, economical, and dependably available.

(9) Providing site preparation, including grading, foundation plantings, seeding or sodding, trees, walks, yard fences, and driveways to a building site.

(10) Reasonable fees for homeownership education as determined by the State Director under ยง 3550.11 of this subpart. Such fees may be added to the loan amount in excess of the area loan limit and appraised value of the house.
