
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Section 502 Origination
###### ยง 3550.53 Eligibility requirements.
####### Credit qualifications.

(h)Applicants must be unable to secure the necessary credit from other sources on terms and conditions that the applicant could reasonably be expected to fulfill. Applicants must have a credit history that indicates reasonable ability and willingness to meet debt obligations. An applicant with an outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a federal court, other than the United States Tax Court, is not eligible for a loan or grant from RHS.

(1) Indicators of unacceptable credit include:

(i) Payments on any account where the amount of the delinquency exceeded one installment for more than 30 days within the last 12 months.

(ii) Payments on any account which was delinquent for more than 30 days on two or more occasions within a 12-month period.

(iii) A foreclosure which has been completed within the last 36 months.

(iv) An outstanding Internal Revenue Service tax lien or any other outstanding tax liens with no satisfactory arrangement for payment.

(v) A court-created or court-affirmed obligation or judgment caused by nonpayment that is currently outstanding or has been outstanding within the last 12 months, except for those excluded in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.

(vi) Two or more rent payments paid 30 or more days late within the last 2 years. If the applicant has experienced no other credit problems in the past 2 years, only 1 year of rent history will be evaluated. Rent payment history requirements may be waived if the RHS loan will reduce shelter costs significantly and contribute to an improved repayment ability.

(vii) Outstanding collection accounts with a record of irregular payment with no satisfactory arrangements for repayment, or collection accounts that were paid in full within the last 6 months.

(viii) Non-agency debts written off within the last 36 months unless paid in full at least 12 months ago.

(ix) Agency debts that were debt settled within the last 36 months or are being considered for debt settlement.

(x) Delinquency on a federal debt.

(2) The following will not be considered indicators of unacceptable credit:

(i) A bankruptcy in which debts were discharged more than 36 months prior to the date of application or where an applicant successfully completed a bankruptcy debt restructuring plan and has demonstrated a willingness to meeting obligations when due for the 12 months prior to the date of application.

(ii) A judgment satisfied more than 12 months before the date of application.

(3) When an application is rejected because of unacceptable credit, the applicant will be informed of the reason and source of information.
