
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Section 502 Origination
###### ยง 3550.54 Calculation of income and assets.
####### Adjusted income.

(c)Adjusted income is used to determine program eligibility for sections 502 and 504 and the amount of payment subsidy for which the household qualifies under section 502. Adjusted income is annual income as defined in paragraph (b) of this section less any of the following deductions for which the household is eligible.

(1) For each household member, except the head of household or spouse, who is under 18 years of age, 18 years of age or older with a disability, or a full-time student, the amount determined pursuant to section 501(b)(5) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended.

(2) A deduction of reasonable expenses for the care of minor 12 years of age or under that:

(i) Enable a family member to work or to further a member's education;

(ii) Are not reimbursed or paid by another source; and

(iii) In the case of expenses to enable a family member to work do not exceed the amount of income earned by the family member enabled to work.

(3) Expenses related to the care of household members with disabilities that:

(i) Enable a family member to work;

(ii) Are not reimbursed from insurance or another source; and

(iii) Are in excess of three percent of the household's annual income.

(4) For any elderly family, a deduction in the amount determined pursuant to section 501(b)(5) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended.

(5) For elderly households only, a deduction for household medical expenses that are not reimbursed from insurance or another source and which in combination with any expenses related to the care of household members with disabilities described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, are in excess of three percent of the household's annual income.
