
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Section 502 Origination
###### ยง 3550.55 Applications.
####### Selection for processing and funding.

(c)Applications will be selected for processing using the priorities specified in this paragraph (c). Within priority categories, applications will be processed in the order that the completed applications are received. In the case of applications with equivalent priority status that are received on the same day, preference will first be extended to applicants qualifying for a veterans' preference. When funds are limited and eligible applicants will be placed on the waiting list, the priorities specified in this paragraph (c) will be used to determine the selection of applications for available funds.

(1) First priority will be given to existing customers who request subsequent loans to correct health and safety hazards.

(2) Second priority will be given to loans related to the sale of an REO property or the transfer of an exisiting RHS financed property.

(3) Third priority will be given to applicants facing housing related hardships including applicants who have been living in deficient housing for more than 6 months, current homeowners in danger of losing a property through foreclosure, and other circumstances determined by RHS on a case-by-case basis to constitute a hardship.

(4) Fourth priority will be given to applicants seeking loans for the construction of dwellings in an RHS-approved Mutual Self-Help project, loan application packages funneled through an Agency-approved intermediary under the certified loan application packaging process, and loans that will leverage funding or financing from other sources at a level published in the program handbook.

(5) Applications from applicants who do not qualify for priority consideration in paragraph (c)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section will be selected for processing after all applications with priority status have been processed.
