
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Section 502 Origination
###### ยง 3550.75 Certified loan application packaging process.
####### Qualified employer.

(2)Individuals who have been designated as an Agency-certified loan application packager must be employed (either as an employee or as an independent contractor) by a qualified employer. To be considered a qualified employer, the packager's employer must meet each of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. Tribal housing authorities and the States' Housing Finance Agencies are eligible and are exempt from the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section.

(i) Be a nonprofit organization or public agency in good standing in the State(s) of its operation.

(ii) Be tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code and be engaged in affordable housing per their regulations, articles of incorporation, or bylaws.

(iii) Notify the Agency and the applicant if they or their Agency-certified packager(s) are the developer, builder, seller of, or have any other such financial interest in the property for which the application package is submitted. The Agency may disallow a particular qualified employer and/or Agency-certified packager from receiving part or all of a packaging fee if the Agency determines that the financial interest is improper or the qualified employer or Agency-certified packager has a history of improperly using its position when there has been a financial interest in the property.

(iv) Prepare an affirmative fair housing marketing plan for Agency approval as outlined in RD Instruction 1901-E (or in any superseding guidance provided in the impending RD Instruction 1940-D).

(v) Submit applications to the Agency via an intermediary if determined necessary by a State Director.
