
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Section 504 Origination and Section 306C Water and Waste Disposal Grants
###### ยง 3550.110 Insurance (loans only).
####### Losses.

(d)(1) Loss deductible clauses for required insurance coverage may not exceed the generally accepted minimums based on current and local market conditions.

(2) Borrowers must immediately notify RHS of any loss or damage to insured property and collect the amount of the loss from the insurance company.

(3) RHS may require that loss payments be supervised. All repairs and replacements done by or under the direction of the borrower, or by contract, will be planned, performed, inspected, and paid for in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A.

(4) When insurance funds remain after all repairs, replacements, and other authorized disbursements have been made, the funds will be applied in the following order:

(i) Prior liens, including delinquent property taxes.

(ii) Delinquency on the account.

(iii) Advances due for recoverable cost items.

(iv) Released to the borrower if the RHS debt is adequately secured.

(5) If a loss occurs when insurance is not in force, the borrower is responsible for making the needed repairs or replacements and ensuring that the insurance is reinstated on the property.

(6) If the borrower is not financially able to make the repairs, RHS may take one of the following actions:

(i) Make a subsequent loan for repairs.

(ii) Subordinate the RHS lien to permit the borrower to obtain funds for needed repairs from another source.

(iii) Permit the borrower to obtain funds secured by a junior lien from another source.

(iv) Make a protective advance to protect the Government's interest.

(v) Accelerate the account and demand payment in full.
