
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Regular Servicing
###### ยง 3550.159 Borrower actions requiring RHS approval.
####### Partial release of security.

(c)RHS may consent to transactions affecting the security, such as sale or exchange of security property or granting of a right-of-way across the security property, and grant a partial release provided:

(1) The compensation is:

(i) For sale of the security property, cash in an amount equal to the value of the security being disposed of or rights granted.

(ii) For exchange of security property, another parcel of property acquired in exchange with value equal to or greater than that being disposed of.

(iii) For granting an easement or right-of-way, benefits derived that are equal to or greater than the value of the security property being disposed of.

(2) An appraisal must be conducted if the latest appraisal is more than 1 year old or if it does not reflect market value and the amount of consideration exceeds $5,000. The appraisal fee will be charged to the borrower.

(3) The security property, after the transaction is completed, will be an adequate but modest, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling and related facilities.

(4) Repayment of the RHS debt will not be jeopardized.

(5) Environmental requirements are met and environmental documentation is submitted in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(6) When exchange of all or part of the security is involved, title clearance is obtained before release of the existing security.

(7) Proceeds from the sale of a portion of the security property, granting an easement or right-of-way, damage compensation, and all similar transactions requiring RHS consent, will be used in the following order:

(i) To pay customary and reasonable costs related to the transaction that must be paid by the borrower.

(ii) To be applied on a prior lien debt, if any.

(iii) To be applied to RHS indebtedness or used for improvements to the security property in keeping with purposes and limitations applicable for use of RHS loan funds. Proposed development will be planned and performed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A and supervised to ensure that the proceeds are used as planned.
