
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Regular Servicing
###### ยง 3550.163 Transfer of security and assumption of indebtedness.
####### Requirements for an assumption.

(d)(1) Loans secured by program-eligible properties to be assumed by program-eligible purchasers may be assumed on program terms. Loans secured by nonprogram properties and loans to be assumed by purchasers who are not eligible for program terms may be assumed on NP terms.

(2) The amount the transferee will assume will be either the current market value less any prior liens and any required down payment, or the indebtedness, whichever is less.

(3) For loans assumed on program terms, the interest rate charged by RHS will be the rate in effect at loan approval or loan closing, whichever is lower. For loans assumed on nonprogram terms, the interest rate will be the rate in effect at the time of loan approval.

(4) If additional financing is required to purchase the property or to make repairs, RHS may approve a subsequent loan under subparts B or C of this part.

(5) If an appraisal is required for an assumption on new terms, the purchaser is responsible for the appraisal fee.

(6) If all or a portion of the borrower's account balance is assumed, the borrower and cosigner, if any, will be released from liability on the amount of the indebtedness assumed. If an account balance remains after the assumption, RHS may pursue debt settlement in accordance with subpart F of this part.

(7) Unless it is in the Government's best interest, RHS will not approve an assumption of a secured loan if the seller fails to repay any unsecured RHS loan.

(8) If a loan is secured by a property with a dwelling situated on more than a minimum adequate site and the excess property cannot be sold separately as a minimum adequate site for another dwelling, RHS may approve a transfer of the entire property. If the excess property can be sold separately as a minimum adequate site, RHS will approve assumption of only the dwelling and the minimum adequate site. If the value of the dwelling on the minimum adequate site is less than the amount of the outstanding RHS debt, the remaining debt will be secured by the excess property. The outstanding debt will be converted to an NP loan and reamortized over a period not to exceed 10 years or the final due date of the original promissory note, whichever is sooner.
