
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Regular Servicing
###### ยง 3550.163 Transfer of security and assumption of indebtedness.
####### Exceptions to due-on-sale clauses.

(c)(1) Due-on-sale clauses are not triggered by the following types of transfers:

(i) A transfer from the borrower to a spouse or children not resulting from the death of the borrower.

(ii) A transfer to a relative, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety resulting from the death of the borrower.

(iii) A transfer to a spouse or ex-spouse resulting from a divorce decree, legal separation agreement, or property settlement agreement.

(iv) A transfer to a person other than a deceased borrower's spouse who wishes to assume the loan for the benefit of persons who were dependent on the deceased borrower at the time of death, if the dwelling will be occupied by one or more persons who were dependent on the borrower at the time of death, and there is a reasonable prospect of repayment.

(v) A transfer into an inter vivos trust in which the borrower does not transfer rights of occupancy in the property.

(2) A transferee who obtains property through one of the types of transfer listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section:

(i) Is not required to assume the loan, and RHS is not permitted to liquidate the loan, if the transferee continues to make scheduled payments and meet all other obligations of the loan. A transferee who does not assume the loan is not eligible for payment assistance or a moratorium.

(ii) May assume the loan on the rates and terms contained in the promissory note, with no down payment. If the account is past due at the time an assumption is executed, the account may be brought current by using any of the servicing methods discussed in subpart E of this part.

(iii) May assume the loan under new rates and terms if the transferee applies and is program-eligible.

(3) Any subsequent transfer of title, except upon death of the inheritor or between inheritors to consolidate title, will be treated as a sale.
