
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Regular Servicing
###### ยง 3550.164 Unauthorized assistance.
####### Unauthorized assistance due to inaccurate information.

(c)(1) Inaccurate information includes incorrect information inadvertently provided, used, or omitted without the intent to obtain benefits for which the recipient was not eligible.

(2) RHS will permit a recipient who receives an unauthorized loan due to inaccurate information to retain the loan under the following conditions.

(i) If the inaccurate information was related to the purpose of the loan or the recipient's eligibility, with the exception of income, or the income used was incorrect, but the recipient still qualified as income-eligible, RHS will allow the recipient to continue the loan on existing terms.

(ii) If a section 502 recipient's income was above the moderate-income level, RHS will convert the loan to an NP loan, using the nonprogram interest rate in effect on the date the loan was approved.

(iii) If a section 504 recipient's income was above the very low-income level, RHS will apply the applicable 502 or nonprogram interest rate in effect on the date the loan was approved.

(iv) If an incorrect interest rate was used, RHS will adjust the account using the correct interest rate.

(3) If the recipient receives unauthorized subsidy due to inaccurate information, RHS will require the recipient to repay it within 30 days. If the recipient cannot repay it within 30 days, the account may be reamortized. If the recipient repays the unauthorized subsidy or reamortizes the loan, the loan may be continued.
