
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3550 - DIRECT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart E - Special Servicing
###### ยง 3550.208 Reamortization using promissory note interest rate.
####### Permitted uses.

(a)Reamortization at the promissory note interest rate may be used to accomplish a variety of servicing actions, including to:

(1) Repay unauthorized assistance due to inaccurate information.

(2) Repay principal and interest accrued and advances made during a moratorium.

(3) Bring current an account under a delinquency workout agreement after the borrower has demonstrated the willingness and ability to meet the terms of the loan and delinquency workout agreement and reamortization is in the borrower's and Government's best interests.

(4) Bring a delinquent account current in the case of an assumption where the due on sale clause is not triggered as described in ยง 3550.163(c).

(5) Cover the remaining debt when a portion of the security property is being transferred but the acquisition price does not cover the outstanding debt. The remaining balance will be reamortized for a period not to exceed 10 years or the final due date of the note being reamortized, whichever is sooner.

(6) Bring an account current where the National Appeals Division (NAD) reverses an adverse action, the borrower has adequate repayment ability, and RHS determines the reamortization is in the best interests of the Government and the borrower.
