
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Lender Participation
###### ยง 3555.51 Lender eligibility.
####### Ability to underwrite and service loans.

(a)The lender must have a demonstrated ability to underwrite and service single-family home loans. A lender will be considered to have such a demonstrated ability if it qualifies as one of the following:

(1) A State Housing Agency;

(2) A lender approved as a supervised or nonsupervised mortgagee by HUD with direct endorsement authority for submission of applications for Federal Housing Mortgage Insurance;

(3) A supervised or nonsupervised mortgagee with authority to close VA-guaranteed loans on the automatic basis;

(4) A lender approved by Fannie Mae for single-family loans;

(5) A lender approved by Freddie Mac for single-family loans;

(6) A Farm Credit System institution that provides documentation of its ability to underwrite and service single-family loans. Lenders who are a Farm Credit System lender with direct lending authority meet demonstrated ability;

(7) A lender participating in other Rural Development or Farm Service Agency guaranteed loan programs that provide documentation of its ability to underwrite and service single family loans. Documentation criteria for other Rural Development or Farm Service Agency guarantee loan programs require an active lender agreement; or

(8) A Federally supervised lender that provides documentation of its ability to originate, underwrite, and service single-family loans. Acceptable sources of supervision include:

(i) Being a member of the Federal Reserve System.

(ii) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).

(iii) The National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).

(iv) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).

(v) The Federal Housing Finance Board regulating lenders within the Federal Home-Loan Bank (FHLB) system.

(9) If lenders cannot meet the requirements under paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, they may demonstrate its ability to originate and underwrite loans by submitting appropriate documentation, examples of which include, but are not limited to:

(i) A summary of residential mortgage lending activity.

(ii) Written criteria outlining the lender's policy and procedures for originating, underwriting and closing residential mortgage loans.

(iii) Evidence of an experienced loan underwriter on staff.

(iv) Certification the lender will contract with an Agency-approved lender meeting the criteria to participate in the program as a servicer.

(10) A lender that proposes to service loans that cannot meet paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section must demonstrate its ability by submitting appropriate documentation, examples of which include but are not limited to:

(i) Evidence of a written plan when contracting for escrow services.

(ii) Evidence the lender has serviced single-family residential mortgage loans in the year prior to request lender approval to participate in the SFHGLP.

(11) The financial requirements for non-supervised lenders not covered in paragraph (a)(8), must have:

(i) A minimum adjusted net worth of $250,000, or $50,000 in working capital plus one percent of the total volume in excess of $25 million in guaranteed loans originated, serviced, or purchased during the lender's prior fiscal year, up to a maximum required adjusted net worth of $2.5 million, and

(ii) One or more lines of credit with a minimum aggregate of one million dollars.
