
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Loan Requirements
###### ยง 3555.101 Loan purposes.
####### Eligible costs.

(b)Loan funds also may be used to pay for the following items associated with the acquisition of a dwelling:

(1) Purchase and installation of essential household equipment in the dwelling such as wall-to-wall carpeting, ovens, ranges, refrigerators, washing machines, clothes dryers, heating and cooling equipment, and other similar items as long as the equipment is conveyed with the dwelling and such items are typically included in the purchase of similar dwellings in the area.

(2) Purchase and installation of energy-saving measures.

(3) Site preparation including grading, foundation, plantings, seeding or sodding, trees, walks, fences, and driveways to the home.

(4) A supplemental loan to provide funds for seller equity or essential repairs when an existing guaranteed loan is assumed simultaneously.

(5) Special design features or equipment when necessary because of a physical disability of the applicant or a member of the household.

(6) Loan funds may be used to pay for reasonable and customary expenses related to obtaining the loan. Allowable loan expenses include:

(i) Legal, architectural, and engineering fees;

(ii) Title exam, title clearance and title insurance;

(iii) Transfer taxes and recordation fees;

(iv) Appraisal, property inspection, surveying, environmental, tax monitoring, and technical services;

(v) Homeownership education.

(vi) Reasonable and customary loan discount points to reduce the note interest rate from the rate authorized in ยง 3555.104(a).

(vii) Reasonable and customary non-recurring closing costs associated with the mortgage transaction that do not exceed those charged other applicants by the lender for similar transactions such as FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed first mortgage loans. If the lender does not participate in such programs, the loan closing costs may not exceed those charged other applicants by the lender for a similar loan program that requires conventional mortgage insurance or guarantee. Allowable closing costs include the actual cost of credit reports, the loan origination fee, settlement fee, deposit verification fees, document preparation fees (if performed by a third party not controlled by the lender), and other reasonable and customary costs as determined by Rural Development. Payment of finder's fees or placement fees for the referral of an applicant to the lender is prohibited.

(viii) Reasonable connection fees, assessments, or the pro rata installment costs for utilities such as water, sewer, electricity and gas for which the borrower is responsible.

(ix) The prorated portion of real estate taxes that is due and payable on the property at the time of closing and to establish escrow accounts for real estate taxes, hazard and flood insurance premiums, and related costs.

(x) The amount of the loan up-front guarantee fee required by ยง 3555.107(g).

(xi) The cost of establishing a cushion in the mortgage escrow account for payment of the annual fee required by ยง 3555.107(h), not to exceed 2 months.

(xii) If the seller or other third party pays any of the costs described in this section, the amount of the costs paid by the seller or other third party may not be included in the loan amount to be guaranteed.
