
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Loan Requirements
###### ยง 3555.105 Combination construction and permanent loans.
####### Terms.

(d)The following terms apply to guarantees of combination construction and permanent loans:

(1) The interest rate for the construction and permanent loan will be established in accordance with ยง 3555.104 at the time the rate is locked, which must occur prior to closing.

(2) The fair market value as determined by a licensed or certified appraiser in accordance with regulation 3555.107(d) will be used to establish the maximum loan amount.

(3) Annual fees will begin in the month immediately following loan closing and will not be affected by loan reamortization following the completion of construction. Lenders may fund a lender imposed escrow account for borrower payments of the annual fee in accordance with ยง 3555.101(b)(6)(xi), as an eligible loan purpose, provided the market value of the property is not exceeded.

(4) Interest on the construction loan is payable monthly either directly from the borrower or indirectly drawn from an established interest reserve. Real estate taxes and property insurance due during the construction period may also be paid using the same draw process. The annual fee will be due and payable from the lender on the 1st of the month following the anniversary date the construction to permanent loan closed.

(5) Initial payment of the regularly scheduled (amortized) principal and interest payment may be postponed up to one year, if necessary, based upon the construction period. Local conditions and the proposed construction contract may dictate the term.

(6) The loan will be modified and re-amortized to achieve full repayment within its remaining term once construction is complete. Within a reasonable time, as specified by the Agency, after the final inspection, the borrower will begin making regularly scheduled (amortized) principal and interest payments once the loan is re-amortized.

(7) Lenders may fund a reserve account for up to 12 months of regularly scheduled (amortized) principal and interest payments along with taxes and insurance (PITI). In such cases, a loan modification is not required after construction is complete. Funds remaining in the PITI reserve after construction is complete will be applied by the lender as a principal payment.
