
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Loan Requirements
###### ยง 3555.105 Combination construction and permanent loans.
####### Use of loan funds.

(c)(1) The loan is to finance the purchase of real estate and construction of a single family dwelling or the purchase and required rehabilitation of an existing single family dwelling. Condominiums, including detached condominiums and site condominiums, are ineligible for combination construction and permanent loans.

(2) The loan amount may include:

(i) The price of the lot.

(ii) Reasonable and customary construction costs related to the construction administration, such as architectural and engineering fees, building permits and fees, surveys, title updates, contingency reserves, not exceeding a percentage specified by the Agency of the cost of construction, draw control and inspection fees, builder's risk insurance or course of construction insurance, and landscaping costs;

(iii) Reasonable and customary closing costs as defined at ยง 3555.101; and

(iv) The costs of an interim construction financing interest rate and PITI reserve under ยง 3555.104(e) and ยง 3555.105(d)(7), respectively.

(3) Funds remaining after full disbursement of construction costs will be applied by the lender as a principal payment. Borrowers are not to receive funds after closing except that the borrower may receive funds remaining from certain unused prepaid expenses if the borrower used personal, non-loan funds to pay those expenses.
