
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Loan Requirements
###### ยง 3555.107 Application for and issuance of the loan guarantee.
####### Automated underwriting.

(b)Approved lenders are required to process SFHGLP loans using Rural Development's automated systems. The automated underwriting system is a tool to help evaluate credit risk but does not substitute or replace the careful judgment of experienced underwriters and shall not be the exclusive determination on extending credit. The lender must apply for and receive approval from Rural Development to utilize the automated underwriting system. Rural Development reserves the right to terminate the lender's use of the automated underwriting system.

(1) Lenders are responsible for ensuring all data is true and accurately represented in the automated underwriting system.

(2) Full documentation and verification, in accordance with Subparts C, D and E of this part, will be retained in the lender's permanent loan file and must confirm the applicant's eligibility, creditworthiness, repayment ability, eligible loan purpose, sufficient collateral, and all other regulatory requirements.

(3) The use of Rural Development's automated underwriting system subjects the lender to indemnification requirements in accordance with ยง 3555.108.

(4) If a loan receives an "Accept" underwriting recommendation, the lender is generally permitted to submit minimal documentation including the appraisal, flood hazard determination and fully executed request for guarantee, unless the lender is instructed to provide other documentation.

(5) Loan requests that receive a "Refer" or "Refer with Caution" underwriting recommendation require further review and manual underwriting by the lender to determine whether the applicant meets SFHGLP eligibility requirements.

(6) Lenders will validate findings based on the output report of the automated underwriting system.

(7) The final submission of the last scoring event must be retained in the lender's permanent loan file.
