
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Loan Requirements
###### ยง 3555.107 Application for and issuance of the loan guarantee.
####### Proper closing and requesting the loan note guarantee.

(i)The lender must ensure that any loan to be guaranteed is properly closed using documents acceptable to Rural Development.

(1) Within 30 days of loan closing, the lender must request issuance of a loan guarantee.

(2) The lender will certify the loan was closed in accordance with the conditional commitment and that no major changes have taken place since issuance of a commitment, except any changes specifically approved by the Agency.

(3) The lender will maintain evidence of hazard insurance and, if applicable, flood insurance.

(4) For all loan submissions, evidence of documentation supporting the properly closed loan will be submitted using Rural Development's automated systems.

(5) Lenders will submit full documentation supporting a closed loan or evidence of self-certification status, as described in this section. Self-certified lenders must still submit the settlement statement and promissory note. Lenders must obtain written authorization from the Agency prior to submitting evidence of self-certification in lieu of full documentation. Authorization for self-certification may be granted by the Agency if:

(i) The lender has an active lender agreement.

(ii) The lender is actively engaged in originating SFHGLP loans and has closed a minimum of 10 loans in the past 12 months.

(iii) The lender has successfully submitted 10 consecutive loan closing to the Agency that were in compliance with loan closing requirements and procedures.

(iv) The lender agrees to retain evidence of confirmed closing conditions in accordance with the issued conditional commitment in the lender's permanent loan file.
