
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Loan Requirements
###### ยง 3555.107 Application for and issuance of the loan guarantee.
####### Appraisals.

(d)The lender must supply a current appraisal report of the property for which the guarantee is requested.

(1) Appraisals must be conducted in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices.

(2) Approved lenders are responsible for selecting a qualified appraiser and the integrity, accuracy and thoroughness of the appraisals used to support their loan guarantee request.

(3) The appraiser must report all readily observable property deficiencies, potential environmental hazards, as well as any adverse conditions discovered performing the research involved in completing the appraisal.

(4) The Agency will conduct reviews of the appraisals prior to issuance of the conditional commitment, and other reviews may be conducted to ensure overall quality of appraisals. The lender is responsible for correcting any appraisal deficiencies reported by the Agency.

(5) The Agency may determine an appraiser ineligible to conduct appraisals for SFHGLP due to the failure to comply with applicable requirements and regulations. Appraisals from the ineligible appraisers will not be accepted.

(6) Use of an alternative approach to value for appraisals performed in remote rural areas, on tribal lands, or where a lack of market activity exists may be accepted at the Agency's discretion.

(7) The validity period of an appraisal will be 120 days, unless otherwise provided by the Agency.
