
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Underwriting the Applicant
###### ยง 3555.151 Eligibility requirements.
####### Repayment ability.

(h)Applicants must demonstrate adequate repayment ability. Lenders must maintain documentation supporting the repayment ability analysis in the loan file. Refer to ยง 3555.152(a) for further information.

(1) A repayment ratio will be used to determine an applicant's ability to repay a loan. The Agency will utilize two ratios, principal, interest, taxes and insurance (PITI) ratio and total debt (TD) ratio, to determine adequate repayment for the requested loan. The Agency reserves the right to consider calculation of a single ratio in determining repayment for the requested loan.

(i) An applicant is considered to have adequate repayment ability when the monthly amount required for payment of PITI, homeowners' association dues, the monthly calculation of an annual fee, as applicable, and other real estate assessments does not exceed 29 percent of the applicant's repayment income and the monthly amount of PITI plus recurring monthly debts (total debt) does not exceed 41 percent of the applicant's repayment income.

(ii) For home purchases under the Rural Energy Plus provision of ยง 3555.209, the Agency reserves the right to allow flexibility in the PITI and TD ratio. The handbook will define what flexibilities can be extended.

(iii) Contributions to personal income taxes, retirement accounts (including the repayment of personal loans from those retirement accounts), savings (including repayment of loans secured by such funds), the cost to commute, membership fees in unions or like organizations, childcare or other voluntary obligations will not be considered in the TD ratio.

(iv) Except for obligations specifically excluded by State law, the debts of non-purchasing spouse must be included in the applicant's repayment ratios if the applicant resides in a community property state.
