
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Underwriting the Applicant
###### ยง 3555.152 Calculation of income and assets.
####### Adjusted annual income.

(c)Adjusted annual income is used to determine program eligibility and is annual income as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, less any of the following verified deductions for which the household is eligible.

(1) A reduction for each family member, except the head of household or spouse, who is under 18 years of age, 18 years of age or older with a disability, or a full-time student, the amount of which will be determined pursuant to HUD definition of adjusted income at 24 CFR 5.611.

(2) A deduction of reasonable expenses for the care of a child 12 years of age or under that:

(i) Enables a family member to work, to actively seek work, or to further a member's education;

(ii) Are not reimbursed or paid by another source; and

(iii) In the case of expenses to enable a family member to work, do not exceed the amount of income, including the value of any health benefits, earned by the family member enabled to work. If the child care provider is a household member, the cost of the children's care cannot be deducted.

(3) A deduction of reasonable expenses related to the care of household members with disabilities that:

(i) Enable a family member or the individual with disabilities to work, to actively seek work, or to further a member's education;

(ii) Are not reimbursed from insurance or another source; and

(iii) Are in excess of 3 percent of the household's annual income and do not exceed the amount of earned income included in annual income by the person who is able to work as a result of the expenses.

(4) For any elderly family, a deduction in the amount determined pursuant to HUD definition of adjusted income at 24 CFR 5.611.

(5) For elderly and disabled families only, a deduction for household medical expenses that are not reimbursed from insurance or another source and which, in combination with any expenses related to the care of household members with disabilities described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, are in excess of 3 percent of the household's annual income.
