
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Underwriting the Applicant
###### ยง 3555.151 Eligibility requirements.
####### Credit qualifications.

(i)Applicants generally must have a verifiable credit history that indicates a reasonable ability and willingness to meet their debt obligations as evidenced by an acceptable credit score, a credit report from a recognized credit repository meeting the requirements of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA, and other credit qualifications satisfactory to Rural Development.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(6) of this section, the applicant's credit history must demonstrate a past willingness and ability to meet credit obligations to enable the lender to evaluate each applicant and draw a logical conclusion about the applicant's commitment and ability to handling financial obligations successfully and ability to make payments on the new mortgage obligation.

(2) A loan's acceptance by an Agency approved automated underwriting system eliminates the need for the lender to submit documentation of the credit qualification decision as loan approval requirements will be incorporated in the automated system.

(3) For manually underwritten loans, lenders must submit documentation of the credit qualification decision. Lenders will use credit scores to manually underwrite loan mortgage requests. Lenders are required to validate the credit scores utilized in the underwriting determination. Indicators of significant derogatory credit will require further review and documentation of that review. Indicators of significant derogatory credit include, but are not limited to:

(i) A foreclosure that has been completed in the 36 months prior to application by the applicant.

(ii) A bankruptcy in which debts were discharged within 36 months prior to the date of application by the applicant. A lender may give favorable consideration to applicants who have entered into a bankruptcy debt restructuring plan who have completed 12 months of consecutive payments. The payment performance must have been satisfactory with all required payments made on time, and the Trustee or the Bankruptcy Judge must approve of the new credit.

(iii) One rent or mortgage payment paid 30 or more days late within the last 12 months prior to application by the applicant.

(iv) A previous Agency loan that resulted in a loss to the Government.

(4) When evidence of significant derogatory credit is present, lenders may consider extenuating circumstances, including but not limited to, whether the problems were caused by factors temporary in nature, if the circumstances leading to the derogatory credit were beyond the control of the applicant, and if the loan would significantly reduce the applicant's housing expenses.

(5) In all cases, the applicant cannot have an outstanding Federal judgment, other than a judgment obtained in the United States Tax Court, or a delinquent non-tax Federal debt that has not been paid in full or otherwise satisfied.

(6) For applicants without an established credit history, alternative methods may be used to evidence an applicant's willingness to pay, such as a non-traditional mortgage credit report or multiple independent verifications of trade references.

(7) A credit report for a non-purchasing spouse must be obtained in order to determine the debt-to-income ratio referenced at ยง 3555.151(h) if the applicant resides in a community property state.

(8) Lenders are encouraged to offer or provide for home ownership counseling. Lenders may require first-time homebuyers to undergo such counseling if it is reasonably available in the local area. When home ownership counseling is provided or sponsored by Rural Development or another Federal agency in the local area, the Lender must require the borrower to successfully complete the course.

(9) Applicants with delinquent child support payments subject to collection by administrative offset are ineligible unless the payments are brought current, the debt is paid in full, or otherwise satisfied.
