
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Underwriting the Applicant
###### ยง 3555.151 Eligibility requirements.
####### https://www.rd.usda.gov/sites/default/files/hb-1-3555.pdf,

(2) The repayment ratio may exceed the percentage in paragraph (h)(1) of this section when certain compensating factors exist. The handbook, HB-1-3555, Appendix I, located atwill provide examples of when a debt ratio waiver may be granted. The automated underwriting system will consider any compensating factors in determining when the variance is appropriate. Loans downgraded in the automated underwriting system which must be manually underwritten will require the lender to document compensating factors. The presence of compensating factors does not strengthen a ratio exception when multiple layers of risk are present in the application. Acceptable compensating factors, supporting documentation, and maximum ratio thresholds, will be further defined and clarified in the handbook. Compensating factors include but are not limited to:

(i) A credit score at an acceptable level of 680 or higher for any applicants, unless otherwise provided by the Agency. The Agency reserves the right to change the acceptable level of credit score.

(ii) A minimal increase in housing expense, i.e. the current rent payment is comparable to the proposed mortgage loan payment PITI and if applicable, homeowner association dues.

(iii) The demonstrated ability to accumulate savings and cash reserves post loan closing.

(iv) Continuous employment with a current primary employer.

(3) Loan ratio exceptions require written approval by Rural Development, or acceptance by an Agency approved automated underwriting system. Flexibilities surrounding loan ratio exceptions will be further clarified in the handbook. Lenders with loans accepted by an Agency approved automated underwriting system need not submit documentation for the need for a ratio waiver.

(4) If an applicant does not meet the repayment ability requirements, the applicant can increase repayment ability by having other eligible household members join the application.

(5) Mortgage Credit Certificates may be considered in determining an applicant's repayment ability.

(6) Section 8 Homeownership Vouchers may be used in determining an applicant's repayment ability. The monthly subsidy may be treated as repayment income in accordance with ยง 3555.152(a) or offset in the PITI.

(7) A funded buydown account may be used to reduce the borrower's monthly mortgage payment during the early years of repayment when all of the following requirements are met:

(i) The loan will be underwritten at the note rate.

(ii) The interest rate may be bought down to no more than 2 percentage points below the note rate.

(iii) The interest rate paid by the borrower may increase no more frequently than annually.

(iv) The interest rate paid by the borrower may increase no more than 1 percentage point annually.

(v) Funds must be placed in an escrow account with monthly releases scheduled directly to the lender.

(vi) Funds must be placed with a Federal- or state-regulated lender.

(vii) The escrow account must be fully funded for the buydown period.

(viii) The borrower is not permitted to use personal funds or funds borrowed from another source to establish the escrow account for the buydown.

(ix) The borrower must not be required to borrow or repay the funds.
