
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Underwriting the Applicant
###### ยง 3555.152 Calculation of income and assets.
####### Annual income.

(b)Annual income is the income of all household members, regardless of whether they will be parties to the promissory note.

(1) Applicants must provide the income, expense and household information necessary to enable the lender to make income determinations.

(2) Lenders must verify employment and income information provided by the applicant for all household members. Lenders will verify the income for each adult household member for the previous 2 years. Written or oral verifications provided by third-party sources or documents prepared by third-party sources are acceptable. Lenders must project the expected annual income for the next 12 months from the verified sources.

(3) The lender remains responsible for the quality and accuracy of all information used to establish a household's eligibility.

(4) Household income from all sources including, but not limited to, income from temporarily absent household members, allowances for tax-exempt income and net family assets as defined in paragraph (d) of this section are to be considered in the calculation of annual income.

(5) The following sources of income will not be considered in the calculation of annual income:

(i) Earned income of persons under the age of 18 unless they are an applicant or a spouse of a member of the household;

(ii) Payments received for the care of foster children or foster adults and incomes received by foster children or foster adults who live in the household;

(iii) Amounts granted for, or in reimbursement of, the cost of medical expenses;

(iv) Earnings of each full-time student 18 years of age or older, except the head of household or spouse, that are in excess of any amount determined pursuant to HUD definition of annual income at 24 CFR 5.609(c);

(v) Temporary, nonrecurring, or sporadic income (including gifts);

(vi) Lump sum additions to family assets such as inheritances; capital gains; insurance payments under health, accident, or worker's compensation policies; settlements for personal or property losses; and deferred periodic payments of supplemental social security income and Social Security benefits received in a lump sum;

(vii) Any earned income tax credit;

(viii) Adoption assistance in excess of any amount determined pursuant to HUD's definition of annual income at 24 CFR 5.609(c);

(ix) Amounts received by the family in the form of refunds or rebates under State or local law for property taxes paid on the dwelling;

(x) Amounts paid by a State agency to a family with a developmentally disabled family member living at home to offset the cost of services and equipment needed to keep the developmentally disabled family member at home;

(xi) The full amount of any student financial aid;

(xii) Any other revenue exempted by a Federal statute, a list of which is available from any Rural Development office;

(xiii) Income received by live-in aides, regardless of whether the live-in aide is paid by the family or a social service program;

(ix) Employer-provided fringe benefit packages unless reported as taxable income; and

(x) Amounts received through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
