
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Underwriting the Property
###### ยง 3555.202 Dwelling requirements.
####### Escrow account for exterior or interior development.

(c)This paragraph does not apply if the development is related to a "combination construction and permanent loan" under ยง 3555.101(c). If a dwelling is complete with the exception of interior or exterior development work, Rural Development may issue the Loan Note Guarantee on the loan if the following conditions are met:

(1) The incomplete work does not affect the habitability of the dwelling, nor the health or safety of the housing occupants.

(2) The cost of any remaining interior or exterior work is not greater than 10 percent of the final loan amount.

(3) An escrow account is funded in an amount sufficient to assure the completion of the remaining work. This figure must be at least 100 percent of the cost of completion but may be higher if the lender determines a higher amount is needed.

(4) The builder or a licensed contractor has executed a contract providing for completion of the planned development within 180 days of loan closing. If the borrower will be completing the planned development on an existing dwelling without the services of a contractor, the requirement for an executed contract is waived when all of the following conditions are met:

(i) The estimated cost to complete the work is less than 10 percent of the total loan amount;

(ii) The escrow amount is less than or equal to $10,000; and

(iii) The lender has determined the borrower has the knowledge and skills necessary to complete the work.

(5) The lender may release escrowed funds only after obtaining a final inspection report acknowledged by the borrower and indicating all planned development has been satisfactorily completed.

(6) The lender remains responsible to ensure a final inspection is performed and required repairs are completed.

(7) The settlement statement reflects the amounts escrowed.
