
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Underwriting the Property
###### ยง 3555.208 Special requirements for manufactured homes.
####### Loan restrictions.

(b)The following loan restrictions are in addition to the loan restrictions contained in ยง 3555.102:

(1) A loan will not be guaranteed if it is used to purchase a site without also financing a new unit.

(2) A loan will not be guaranteed if it is used to purchase furniture, including but not limited to: movable articles of personal property such as drapes, beds, bedding, chairs, sofas, divans, lamps, tables, televisions, radios, and stereo sets. Furniture does not include wall-to-wall carpeting, refrigerators, ovens, ranges, washing machines, clothes dryers, heating or cooling equipment, or other similar items.

(3) A loan will not be guaranteed to purchase an existing manufactured home and site unless:

(i) The unit and site are already financed with an Agency direct single family or guaranteed loan;

(ii) The unit and site are being sold by Rural Development as REO property;

(iii) The unit and site are being sold from the lender's inventory, and the loan for which the unit and site served as security was a loan guaranteed by Rural Development; or

(iv) The unit was installed on its initial installation site on a permanent foundation complying with the manufacturer's and HUD installation standards.

(4) A loan will not be guaranteed for repairs to an existing unit, unless the unit meets the requirements of ยง 3555.208(b)(3).

(5) A loan will not be guaranteed for the purchase of an existing manufactured home that has been moved from another site.
