
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Servicing Performing Loans
###### ยง 3555.252 Required servicing actions.
####### Insurance.

(c)(1) Until the loan is paid in full, lenders must ensure that borrowers maintain hazard and flood insurance as required, on property securing guaranteed loans. The insurance must be issued by companies in amounts, and on terms and conditions, acceptable to Rural Development. Flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance Program must be maintained for all property located in special flood or mudslide areas identified by FEMA and must be consistent with mortgage industry standards, as determined by the Agency.

(2) Lenders must ensure that borrowers immediately notify them of any loss or damage to insured property securing guaranteed loans and collect the amount of the loss from the insurance company. Unless the borrower pays off the guaranteed loan using the insurance proceeds, the following requirements must be met:

(i) All repairs and replacements using the insurance proceeds must be planned, performed, and inspected in accordance with Agency construction requirements and procedures.

(ii) When insurance funds remain after payments for all repairs, replacements, and other authorized disbursements have been made, the funds must be applied in the following order: prior liens (including past-due property taxes); past-due amounts; protective advances; and released to the borrower if the lender's debt is adequately secured.

(3) If the insurance claim is de minimis as determined by the Agency, the lender may release the funds directly to the borrower to advance funds to contractors, provided that the account is current and the borrower has a history of timely payments; the borrower occupies the property; and the borrower executes an affidavit agreeing to apply the funds for repairs or reconstruction of the dwelling.
