
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Servicing Performing Loans
###### ยง 3555.256 Transfer and assumptions.
####### Transfer with assumption.

(b)(1) The lender must obtain Agency approval before consenting to a transfer with an assumption of the outstanding debt.

(2) Rural Development may approve a transfer with an assumption of the outstanding debt if the following conditions are met:

(i) The transferee must assume the entire outstanding debt and acquire all property securing the guaranteed loan balance; however, the transferor must remain personally liable. The transferor must pay any recapture as a result of interest subsidy granted, if applicable, owed at the time of the transfer and assumption.

(ii) The transferee must meet the eligibility requirements described in subpart D of this part.

(iii) The property must meet the site and dwelling requirements described in subpart E of this part, or be brought to those standards prior to the transfer. Guaranteed loans secured by properties located in areas that have ceased to be rural may be assumed notwithstanding the fact that the property is located in a non-rural area.

(iv) The priority of the existing lien securing the guaranteed loan must be maintained or improved.

(v) Any new rates and terms must not exceed the rates and terms allowed for new loans under this part, and the interest rate must not exceed the interest rate on the initial loan.

(vi) A new guarantee fee, calculated based on the remaining principal balance, must be paid to Rural Development in accordance with ยง 3555.107(g).

(vii) If additional financing is required to complete the transfer and assumption or to make needed repairs, Rural Development may approve a supplemental guaranteed loan provided adequate security exists.

(viii) The lender must verify and document their permanent file in accordance with subpart C of this part.

(ix) A written request supported by the lender demonstrating the applicant's credit worthiness, income eligibility and underwriting analysis must be submitted to the Agency for approval of a transfer and assumption.

(x) The lender may close the loan in accordance with ยง 3555.107.
