
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3555 - GUARANTEED RURAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart G - Servicing Non-Performing Loans
###### ยง 3555.306 Liquidation.
####### Foreclosure.

(b)(1) The lender must initiate foreclosure within 90 calendar days of the decision to liquidate unless Federal, State, or local law requires that foreclosure action be delayed. When there is a legal delay (such as bankruptcy), foreclosure must be initiated within 90 calendar days after it becomes possible to do so. Foreclosure initiation begins with the first public action required by law such as filing a complaint or petition, recording a notice of default, or publication of a notice of sale.

(2) Lenders must exercise due diligence in completing the liquidation process to ensure the foreclosure is cost effective, expeditious, and completed in an efficient manner, as otherwise provided by the Agency. The lender must choose the foreclosure method representing the best interest of the Federal Government.

(3) The lender's decision to bid at foreclosure and any bid amount will be based upon the property value, whether the property value is sufficient to cover the existing debt and incurred costs, and any potential to recover a deficiency. The lender will encourage third party bidding at a foreclosure sale when the total debt, including the cost of acquiring, managing and disposing of the property, if acquired, is greater than the gross proceeds expected from a foreclosure sale at market value.

(c) Unless State law imposes other requirements, the lender may reinstate an accelerated account if the borrower pays, or makes acceptable arrangements to pay, all past-due amounts, any protective advances, and any foreclosure-related costs incurred by the lender.
