
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### Good Delivery Standards
####### ยง 46.44 Good delivery.
######## Lettuce.

(a)(1) If the contract specifies a U.S. grade, the lettuce may contain an average of not more than 3 percent condition defects, including not more than 2 percent decay affecting any portion of the head exclusive of wrapper leaves in excess of the destination tolerances provided for the applicable grade in the U.S. Standards for Grades of Lettuce. (For example, the U.S. No. 1 grade provides a 12 percent tolerance for damage at destination. If a lot contains 5 percent damage by permanent grade factors, 7 percent of the tolerance can be applied to damage by condition factors. The additional 3 percent Good Delivery tolerance would then allow a total of 10 percent damage by condition factors in this shipment at destination.)

(2) If the contract does not specify a U.S. grade or percentage of condition defects, the lettuce at destination may contain a maximum of 15 percent, by count, of the heads in any lot which are damaged by condition defects, including therein not more than 9 percent serious damage of which not more than 5 percent may be decay affecting any portion of the head exclusive of wrapper leaves. Sales made on a percentage of a U.S. grade, without specifying the percentage of condition defects separately from the permanent defects, fall under this provision, and the lettuce may not contain more than a total of 15 percent condition defects at destination. However, if the condition defects are specified, provision No. 3 will apply.

(3) If the contract specifies a percentage of individual or combined condition defects, the lettuce at destination may contain either of the following, whichever is greater:
