
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan and Grant Origination
###### ยง 3560.56 Processing section 515 housing proposals.
####### Scoring and ranking project proposals.

(c)The Agency will score and rank each housing proposal that meets the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) The following criteria will be used to score housing proposals as more completely established in the NOFA:

(i) The presence and extent of leveraged assistance in the proposal for the units that will serve tenants meeting Agency income limits at basic rents comparable to what the rent would be if the Agency provided full financing.

(ii) The proposal will provide rental units in a colonia, tribal land, Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) community, Enterprise Zone or Empowerment Community (EZ/EC) or in a place identified in the state Consolidated Plan or a state needs assessment as a high need community for MFH.

(iii) The proposal supports Agency initiatives announced in the NOFA.

(iv) The proposal uses a donated site which meets the following conditions:

(A) The site is donated by a state, unit of local government, public body or a nonprofit organization;

(B) The site is suitable for the housing proposals and meets Agency requirements;

(C) Site development costs do not exceed what they would be to purchase and develop an alternative site;

(D) The overall cost of the MFH is reduced by the donation of the site; and

(E) A return on investment is not paid to the borrower for the value of the donated site nor is the value of the site considered as part of the borrower's contribution.

(2) The Agency will rank housing proposals based on their scoring.

(i) When proposals have an equal score, preference will be given to Indian tribes as defined in ยง 3560.11 and local nonprofit organizations or public bodies whose principal purposes include low-income housing that meet the conditions of ยง 3560.55(c) and the following conditions.

(A) Is exempt from Federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue code;

(B) Is not wholly or partially owned or controlled by a for-profit or limited-profit type entity;

(C) Whose members, or the entity, do not share an identity of interest with a for-profit or limited-profit type entity;

(D) Is not co-venturing with another entity; and

(E) The entity or its members will not be receiving any direct or indirect benefits pursuant to LIHTC.

(ii) A drawing will be held in the event of a tie score, first for proposals from applicants who meet the conditions of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section and next for proposals from applicants for which paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section is not applicable. Each proposal will be numbered in the order in which it is drawn.

(3) The Agency will request initial loan applications from parties who submitted the housing proposals with the highest ranking, taking into consideration available funds. The Agency will notify non-selected parties with the reasons for their non-selection, and the process that may be used to seek a review of the non-selection decision.
