
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan and Grant Origination
###### ยง 3560.58 Site requirements.
####### Location.

(a)(1) New construction section 515 loans will be made only in designated places selected by the Agency in accordance with the requirements of ยง 3560.57.

(2) Agency-financed MFH must be located in residential areas as part of established rural communities, except as permitted in ยง 3560.58(b), and for farm labor housing units financed under sections 514 and 516, which may be developed in any area where a need for farm labor housing exists.

(3) Communities in which Agency-financed MFH is located must have adequate facilities and services to support the needs of tenants.

(4) Housing complexes will not be located in areas where there are undesirable influences such as high activity railroad tracks; adjacent to or near industrial sites; bordering sites or structures which are not decent, safe, or sanitary; or bordering sites which have potential environmental concerns such as processing plants. Sites which are not an integral part of a residential community and do not have reasonable access, either by location or terrain, to essential community facilities such as water, sewerage removal, schools, shopping, employment opportunities, medical facilities, may not be acceptable. Consistent with Federal law and Departmental Regulation, the Agency must conduct an environmental assessment and a civil rights impact analysis before a site can be accepted. Sites may be determined by the Agency to be unacceptable if any of the adverse conditions described in this paragraph exist.
