
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan and Grant Origination
###### ยง 3560.60 Design requirements.
####### Economical construction, operation and maintenance.

(c)Taking into consideration life-cycle costs, all housing must be economical to construct, operate, and maintain and must not be of elaborate design or materials.

(1) Economical construction means construction that results in housing of at least average quality with amenities that are reasonable and customary for the community and necessary to appropriately serve tenants.

(2) Economical operating and maintenance means housing with operational and maintenance costs that allow a basic rent structure less than or consistent with conventional rents for comparable units in the community or in a similar community except that when determined necessary by the Agency to allow for decent, safe and sanitary housing to be provided in market areas where conventional rents are not sufficient to cover necessary operating, maintenance, and reserve costs. Basic rents may be allowed to exceed comparable rents for conventional units, but in no case may the rent exceed 150% of the comparable rent for conventional unit rent level.

(3) In meeting the Agency objective of economical construction, operation and maintenance, housing proposals must:

(i) Contain costs without jeopardizing the quality and marketability of the housing;

(ii) Employ life-cycle cost analyses acceptable to the Agency to determine the types of materials which will reduce overall costs by lowering operation and maintenance costs, even though their initial costs may be higher; and

(iii) Provide assurances that costs will be reduced when the Agency determines that housing costs are not economical. If assurances cannot be provided, funding may be withdrawn.

(4) The housing proposal will give maximum consideration to energy conservation measures and practices.
