
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan and Grant Origination
###### ยง 3560.61 Loan security.
####### Housing and land ownership.

(d)Applicants must own the MFH and related land for which the loan is being requested, or become the owner when the loan is closed or have a leasehold interest in the land. If an applicant is not the owner of the housing and the related land, the following conditions must be met prior to or at loan closing.

(1) A recorded mortgage on the improvements is given as collateral.

(2) The amount of the loan against the collateral does not exceed its estimated security value.

(3) The unexpired term of the lease on the date of loan closing is at least 50 percent longer than the term of the loan and rent charged for the lease does not exceed the rate being paid for similar leases in the area.

(4) The applicant's leasehold interest is not subject to summary foreclosure or cancellation.

(5) The lease permits:

(i) The Agency to foreclose the mortgage and to transfer the lease;

(ii) The Agency to bid at a foreclosure sale or to accept voluntary conveyance of the security in lieu of foreclosure;

(iii) The Agency to occupy the property, sublet the property, or sell the leasehold for cash or credit if the leasehold is acquired through foreclosure, if the Agency accepts voluntary conveyance in lieu of foreclosure, or if the borrower abandons the property; and

(iv) The applicant, in the event of default or inability to continue with the lease and the loan, to transfer the leasehold subject to the mortgage to a transferee that will assume the property ownership obligations.
