
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan and Grant Origination
###### ยง 3560.65 Reserve account.

(a) For new construction, to meet major capital expenses of a housing project, applicants must establish and fund a reserve account that meets the requirements of ยง 3560.306. The applicant must agree to make monthly contributions to the reserve account pursuant to a reserve account analysis which sets forth how the reserve account funds will meet the capital needs of the property over an acceptable 20-year period. The reserve account analysis is based on either a Capital Needs Assessment or life cycle cost analysis, provided and acceptable to Rural Development by the applicant. Adjustments may be made to the contribution amount at 5 or 10-year intervals, either through an updated Capital Needs Assessment or as part of the original life cycle cost analysis. The cost of conducting either a Capital Needs Assessment or life cycle cost analysis will be paid for by the applicant. The cost of the initial Capital Needs Assessment or life cycle cost analysis may be included in the loan financing.

(b) For ownership transfers or sales, the requirements of ยง 3560.406(d)(5) will be met.

(c) For other existing properties, at a minimum the borrower must agree to make monthly contributions to the reserve account at the rate of 1 percent annually of the amount of total development cost until the reserve account equals 10 percent of the total development cost.

(d) The agency may establish an escrow account for the collection and disbursement of reserve account funds.
