
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan and Grant Origination
###### ยง 3560.64 Initial operating capital contribution.

Borrowers are required to make an initial operating capital contribution to the general operating account in the amount of at least 2 percent of the total development cost or appraised value, whichever is less.

(a) Borrowers that are nonprofit organizations, consumer cooperatives, or state or local public agencies and are not receiving low-income housing tax credits, may use loan funds for their initial operating capital contribution. All other borrowers must fund the initial operating capital contribution from their own resources.

(b) Borrowers must provide to the Agency for approval a list of materials and equipment to be funded from the general operating account for initial operating expenses. As specified in ยง 3560.304(b), initial operating capital may be used only to pay for approved budgeted expenses. If total initial operating expenses exceed 2 percent, the additional amount must be paid by the borrower from its own resources, except that borrowers meeting the provisions of ยง 3560.64(a) who do not have sufficient resources for this purpose may request Agency assistance. Withdrawals from the reserve account will not be approved for such expenses.

(c) Borrowers must provide the Agency with documentation of their initial operating capital contribution deposited into the general operating account prior to the start of construction or loan closing, whichever comes first, and such funds thereafter, may only be used for authorized budgeted purposes.

(d) If the conditions specified in ยง 3560.304(c) are met, funds contributed as initial operating capital may be returned to the borrower.
