
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan and Grant Origination
###### ยง 3560.66 Participation with other funding or financing sources.
####### General requirements.

(a)The Agency encourages the use of funding or financing from other sources in conjunction with Agency loans. When the Agency is not the sole source of financing for MFH, the following conditions must be met.

(1) The Agency will enter into a participation (or intercreditor) agreement with the other participants that clearly defines each party's relationship and responsibilities to the others.

(2) The rental units that will serve tenants eligible for housing under the Agency's income standards must meet Agency standards and the number of units that will serve the Agency's tenants are at least equal to the units financed by the Agency.

(3) All rental units must be operated and managed in compliance with the requirements of the Agency and the other sources. To the extent these requirements overlap, the most stringent requirement must be met. The Agency may negotiate the resolution of overlapping requirements on a case-by-case basis; however, at a minimum, Agency requirements must be met.

(4) If the number of units subject to the LIHTC rent and income restrictions is greater than the number of units projected to receive Agency rental assistance (RA) or similar tenant subsidy, the market feasibility documentation must clearly reflect a need and demand by LIHTC income-eligible households financially able to afford the projected rents without such a subsidy for the units not receiving RA or similar tenant subsidy.
