
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Borrower Management and Operations Responsibilities
###### ยง 3560.102 Housing project management.
####### Acceptable management agents.

(e)Borrowers must obtain Agency approval of the agent proposed to manage a housing project prior to entering into any formal agreement with the agent and prior to allowing the agent to assume responsibility for housing project operations. Borrowers that plan to self-manage a housing project also must receive Agency approval before assuming responsibility for housing operations.

(1) Borrowers must submit a written request for Agency approval of the proposed management agent at least 45 days prior to the date the agent is to assume responsibility for operations. This request must include a profile of the proposed management agent that provides sufficient information to allow the Agency to evaluate whether the agent is acceptable.

(2) The Agency will deny approval of any proposed management agent that cannot provide evidence of at least two years of experience and satisfactory performance in directing and overseeing the management of similar federally-assisted MFH.

(3) The Agency may issue approval of a management agent that does not meet the requirements of ยง 3560.102(e)(2) if the management agent can provide evidence that indicates the ability to successfully manage a MFH project in accordance with Agency requirements.

(4) If a borrower enters into an agreement with a management agent or begins to self-manage prior to receiving Agency approval, the Agency will place the borrower in non-monetary default status and will require the borrower to immediately terminate the contract with the management agent.
