
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Borrower Management and Operations Responsibilities
###### ยง 3560.102 Housing project management.
####### Management fees.

(i)Management fees will be an allowable expense to be paid from the housing project's general operating account only if the fee is approved by the Agency as a reasonable cost to the housing project and documented on the management certification. Management fees must be developed in accordance with the following:

(1) The management fee may compensate the management entity for the following costs and services:

(i) Supervision by the management agent and its staff (time, knowledge, and expertise) of overall operations and capital improvements of the site.

(ii) Hiring, supervision, and termination of on-site staff.

(iii) General maintenance of project books and records (general ledger, accounts payable and receivable, payroll, etc.). Preparation and distribution of payroll for all on-site employees, including the costs of preparing and submitting all appropriate tax reports and deposits, unemployment and workers' compensation reports, and other IRS- or state-required reports.

(iv) In-house training provided to on-site staff by the management company.

(v) Preparation and submission of proposed annual budgets and negotiation of approval with the Agency.

(vi) Preparation and distribution of the Agency forms and routine financial reports to borrowers.

(vii) Preparation and distribution of required year-end reports to the Agency.

(viii) Preparation of requests for reserve withdrawals, rent increases, or other required adjustments.

(ix) Arranging for preparation by outside contractors of utility allowance analysis.

(x) Preparation and implementation of Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plans as well as general marketing plans and efforts.

(xi) Review of tenant certifications and submission of monthly rental assistance requests, and overage. Submission of payments where required.

(xii) Preparation, approval, and distribution of operating disbursements; oversight of project receipts; and reconciliation of deposits.

(xiii) Overhead of management agent, including:

(A) Establish, maintain, and control an accounting system sufficient to carry out accounting supervision responsibilities.

(B) Maintain agent office arrangements, staff, equipment, furniture, and services necessary to communicate effectively with the properties, to include consultation and support to site-staff, the Agency and with the borrowers.

(C) Postage expenses unrelated to site operation.

(D) Expense of telephone and facsimile communication, unrelated to site operations.

(E) Direct costs of insurance (fidelity bonds covering central office staff, computer and data coverage, general liability, etc.) directly related to protection of the funds and records of the borrower. Insurance coverage for agent's office and operations (Property, Auto, Liability, Errors and Omissions, Casualty, Workers Compensation, etc.).

(F) Central office staff training and ongoing certifications.

(G) Maintenance of all required profession and business licenses and permits. (This does not include project site office permits or licenses.)

(H) Travel of agent staff to the properties for on-site inspection, training, or supervision activities.

(I) Agent bookkeeping for their own business.

(xiv) Attendance at meetings (including travel) with tenants, owners, and the Agency or other governmental agency.

(xv) Development, preparation, and revision of management plans, agreements, and management certifications.

(xvi) Directing the investment of project funds into required accounts.

(xvii) Maintenance of bank accounts and monthly reconciliations.

(xviii) Preparation, request for, and disbursement of borrower's initial operating capital (for new projects) as well as administration of annual owner's return on investment.

(xix) Account maintenance, settlement, and disbursement of security deposits.

(xx) Working with auditors for initial Agency annual financial reports.

(xxi) Storage of records, to include electronic records, and adherence to records retention requirements.

(xxii) Assist on-site staff with tenant relations and problems. Provide assistance to on-site staff in severe actions (eviction, death, insurance loss, etc.).

(xxiii) Oversight of general and preventive maintenance procedures and policies.

(xxiv) Development and oversight of asset replacement plans.

(xxv) Oversight of preparation of section 504 reviews, development of plans, and implementation of improvements necessary to comply with plans and section 504 requirements.

(2) Management fees may consist of a base per occupied revenue producing unit fee and add-on fees for specific housing project characteristics. Management entities may be eligible to receive the full base per occupied unit fee for any month or part of a month during which the unit is occupied.

(i) Periodically, the Agency will develop a range of base per occupied unit fees that will be paid in each state. The Agency will develop the fees based on a review of housing industry data. The final base for occupied unit fees for each state will be made available to all borrowers.

(ii) Periodically, the Agency will develop the amount and qualifications to receive add-on fees. The final set of qualifications will be made available to all borrowers.

(3) Management plans and agreements must describe if administrative expenses are to be paid from the management fee or paid for as a project cost.

(i) A task list should be used to identify which services are included in the management fee, which services are included in project operations, and which are pro-rated along with the methodology used to pro-rating of expenses between management agent fees and project operations. Some property responsibilities are completed at the property and some offsite. Agent responsibilities may be performed at the property, the management office, or at some other location.

(ii) Disputes may arise as to who performs certain services. The management plan and job descriptions should normally provide sufficient clarity to avoid or resolve any such disputes; however, sometimes clarifications and supporting materials may be required to resolve disputes. The decision must be made based on the most complete evaluation of the facts presented.
