
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Borrower Management and Operations Responsibilities
###### ยง 3560.103 Maintaining housing projects.
####### Capital budgeting and planning.

(c)(1) Borrowers must develop a capital budget as part of their annual housing project budget required under ยง 3560.303. The capital budget must include anticipated expenditures on the long-term capital needs of the housing project to assure adequate maintenance and replacement of capital items.

(2) If the borrower requests an increase in the project's reserve for replacement account, the borrower must have a capital needs assessment prepared and submitted to the Agency to reflect anticipated needs of the housing project for replacement of capital equipment and systems. The cost for preparation of a capital needs assessment will be approved by the Agency as an eligible housing project expense provided the capital needs assessment is reasonable in cost and meets Agency requirements.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) As a part of the annual budget process, borrowers may request an increase in the amount to be contributed and held in the housing project reserve account to fund the needs identified in an Agency-approved capital needs assessment.

(5) At any time, borrowers may request and the Agency may approve amendments to loan or grant documents to increase the amount of funds to be contributed and held in a reserve account to cover the cost of capital improvements based on the needs identified in an Agency approved capital needs assessment. Borrowers must assure improvements are performed as specified in the capital needs assessment.
