
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Borrower Management and Operations Responsibilities
###### ยง 3560.104 Fair housing.
####### Housing sign requirements.

(d)(1) A permanent sign identifying the housing project is required for all housing projects approved on or after September 13, 1977. Permanent signs are recommended for all housing projects approved prior to September 13, 1977. The sign must meet the following requirements:

(i) Must be located at the primary site entrance and be readable and recognizable from the roadside;

(ii) Must be located near the site manager's office when the housing project has multiple sites and portable signs must be placed where vacancies exist at other site locations of a "scattered site" housing project;

(iii) May be of any shape;

(iv) Must be not less than 16 square feet of area for housing projects with 8 or more rental units (smaller housing projects may have smaller signs);

(v) Must be made of durable material including its supports;

(vi) Must include the housing project name;

(vii) Must show rental contact information including but not limited to the office location of the housing project and a telephone number where applicant inquiries may be made;

(viii) Must show either the equal housing opportunity logotype (the house and equal sign, with the words equal housing opportunity underneath the house); the equal housing opportunity slogan "equal housing opportunity"; or the equal housing opportunity statement, "We are pledged to the letter and spirit of U.S. policy for the achievement of equal housing opportunity throughout the nation. We encourage and support an affirmative advertising and marketing program in which there are no barriers to obtaining housing because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin." If the logotype is used, the size of the logo must be no less than 5 percent of the total size of the project sign.

(ix) May display the Agency or Department logotype; and

(x) Must comply with state and local codes.

(2) Accessible parking spaces must be reserved for individuals with disabilities by a sign showing the international symbol of accessibility. The sign must be mounted on a post at a height that is readily visible from an occupied vehicle. In snow areas, the sign must be visible above piled snow. If there is an office, the designated parking space must be van accessible.

(3) When the continuous unobstructed ingress or egress disabled accessibility route to a primary building entrance is other than the usual or obvious route, the alternate route for disabled accessibility must be clearly marked with international accessibility symbols and directional signs to aid a disabled person's ingress or egress to the building, through an accessible entrance, and to the accessible common use and public and living areas.
