
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Borrower Management and Operations Responsibilities
###### ยง 3560.104 Fair housing.
####### Accommodations and communication.

(c)The borrower must take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, tenants, and members of the public with disabilities. At a minimum, the following steps must be taken:

(1) Furnish appropriate auxiliary aids (electronic, mechanical, or personal assistance) where necessary, to afford an individual with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in and enjoy the benefits of Agency financed housing.

(i) In determining what auxiliary aids are necessary, the borrower must give primary consideration to the requests of individuals with disabilities.

(ii) The borrower is not required to provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) Where a borrower communicates with applicants and tenants by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons or equally effective communication systems must be available for use.

(3) The borrower must implement procedures to ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information concerning the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities in the housing project and community.

(4) The borrower is required to provide reasonable accommodations at the project's expense unless doing so would result in undue financial or administrative burden on the project. Examples of reasonable accommodations may include such items as the installation of grab bars, ramps, and roll-in showers. Reasonable accommodations may also include the modification of rules or policies such as permitting a disabled tenant to have a two-bedroom unit to accommodate a resident assistant or to permit a disabled tenant to have a companion animal. The decision whether the requested accommodation is reasonable or unreasonable or whether to provide the accommodation would cause an undue financial or administrative burden lies with the borrower and would be for the borrower to defend should a complaint subsequently be filed. Borrowers may wish to consult with their legal counsel prior to denying a request. If the borrower takes the position that providing an accommodation would cause an undue financial or administrative burden, the borrower must permit the tenant to make reasonable modifications at the tenant's expense. Requests for reasonable accommodations must be handled in accordance with the management plan.
