
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Borrower Management and Operations Responsibilities
###### ยง 3560.105 Insurance and taxes.
####### Elevators, boiler, and machinery coverage.

(iv)This coverage is required for properties that operate elevators, steam boilers, turbines, engines, or other pressure vessels.

(2) Other types of insurance that the Agency may require:

(i) Windstorm Coverage.

(ii) Earthquake Coverage.

(iii) Sinkhole Insurance or Mine Subsidence Insurance.

(3) For property insurance, the minimum coverage amount must equal the "Total Estimated Reproduction Cost of New Improvements," as reflected in the housing project's most recent appraisal. At a minimum, property insurance coverage must be adequate to cover the lesser of the depreciated replacement value of essential buildings or the unpaid balance of all secured debt, unless such coverage is financially unfeasible for the housing project.

(i) If the cost of the minimum level of property insurance coverage exceeds what the housing project can reasonably afford, the borrower, with Agency concurrence, must obtain the maximum amount of property insurance coverage that the housing project can afford.

(ii) If the coverage amount is less than the depreciated replacement value of all essential buildings, borrowers must obtain coverage on one or more of the most essential buildings, as determined by the Agency.

(iii) When required, the coverage amount for flood insurance must equal the outstanding loan balance or the maximum coverage allowed by FEMA's "National Flood Insurance Program."

(4) Except for flood insurance, property insurance is not required if the housing project:

(i) Has a depreciated replacement value of $2,500 or less; or

(ii) Is in a condition which the Agency determines makes insurance coverage not economical.

(5) Policies for several buildings or properties located on noncontiguous sites are acceptable if the insurer provides proof that each secured building or property related to the housing project is as fully protected as if a separate policy were issued.

(6) Borrowers must notify the Agency and their insurance company agents of any loss or damage to insured property and collect the amount of the loss.

(7) When the Agency is in the first lien position and an insurance settlement represents a satisfactory adjustment of a loss, the insurance settlement will be deposited in the housing project's general operating account unless the settlement exceeds $5,000. If the settlement exceeds $5,000, the funds will be placed in the reserve account for the housing project.

(i) Insurance settlement funds which remain after all repairs, replacements, and other authorized disbursements have been made retain their status as housing project funds.

(ii) If the indebtedness secured by the insured property has been paid in full or the insurance settlement is in payment for loss of property on which the Agency has no claim; a loss draft which includes the Agency as co-payee may be endorsed by the Agency without recourse and delivered to the borrower.

(8) When the Agency is not in the first lien position and the insurance settlement represents satisfactory adjustment of the loss, the Agency will release the settlement funds to the primary mortgagee upon agreement of all parties to the provisions contained in agreements between the Agency and the primary lienholder.

(9) Allowable deductible amounts are as follows:
