
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### OMB Control No.
####### ยง 46.48 Procedure for investigating complaints involving commodities of a unique nature or coming from a distinct geographic area.
######## Handling complaints.

(c)(1) Upon receiving a written complaint, supporting evidence, and the $250.00 preliminary investigation fee from a complaining person, the Director, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture shall order a preliminary investigation to determine if the complaint can be substantiated. If the initial investigation discloses no violation of the Act, no further action shall be taken and the complaining person shall be informed of the finding. The $250.00 filing fee shall be considered full payment for the preliminary investigation.

(2) If the Director finds reasonable cause for further investigation, the complaining person shall be duly notified of the findings. Prior to any further investigation, the Director shall advise the complaining person of the estimated fees and charges which the complaining person must pay. In calculating the estimated fees, the Director shall use the hourly salary rate of a GS-5, Step 4, for clerical time and GS-13, Step 1, for professional time, plus benefits and other related expenses including travel associated with the investigation.

(3) At the conclusion of the investigation, the Department will inform the complaining person of the results, provided, however, that any findings, the release of which may jeopardize an ongoing formal disciplinary proceeding initiated under the PACA, may be withheld pending completion of the disciplinary case.
