
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart C - Borrower Management and Operations Responsibilities
###### ยง 3560.105 Insurance and taxes.
####### Fidelity coverage.

(h)Borrowers must provide fidelity coverage on any personnel entrusted with the receipt, custody, and disbursement of any housing monies, securities, or readily salable property other than money or securities. Borrowers must have fidelity coverage in force as soon as there are assets within the organization and it must be obtained before any loan funds or interim financing funds are made available to the borrower. In addition, the following conditions apply to fidelity insurance:

(1) Fidelity insurance coverage must be documented on a bond form acceptable to the Agency.

(2) Fidelity coverage policies must declare in the insuring agreements that the insurance company will provide protection to the insured against the loss of money, securities, and property other than money and securities, through any criminal or dishonest act or acts committed by any employee, whether acting alone or in collusion with others, not to exceed the amount of indemnity stated in the declaration of coverage.

(i) The fidelity insurance policy, at a minimum, must include an insuring agreement that covers employee dishonesty.

(ii) Fidelity coverage amounts and deductible:

(3) Blanket crime insurance coverage or fidelity bonds are acceptable types of fidelity coverage.

(4) At a minimum, borrowers must provide an endorsement, listing all of the borrower's Agency financed properties and their locations covered under the policy or bond as evidence of required fidelity insurance. The policy or bond may also include properties or operations other than Agency financed properties on separate endorsement listings.

(5) Individual or organizational borrowers must have fidelity coverage when they have employees with access to the MFH complex assets. Borrowers who use a management agent with exclusive access to housing assets must require the agent to have fidelity coverage on all principals and employees with access to the housing assets. If active management reverts to the borrower, the borrower must obtain fidelity coverage, as a first course of business.

(6) Fidelity coverage is not required under the following circumstances:

(i) The borrower is an individual or a general partnership and the individual or general partner will be responsible for the financial activities of the housing project.

(ii) In the case of a land trust where the beneficiary is responsible for management, the beneficiary will be treated as an individual.

(iii) A limited partnership (or its general partners) unless one or more of its general partners perform financial acts within the scope of the usual duties of an "employee."

(7) The premium for fidelity coverage of employees and general partners at a housing project is an eligible operating account expense.
