
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Multi-Family Housing Occupancy
###### ยง 3560.152 Tenant eligibility.
####### Borrower requirements.

(2)(i) Borrowers must verify household income and other information necessary to establish tenant eligibility for the requested rental unit type, in a format approved by the Agency, prior to a tenant's initial occupancy and prior to annual or other recertifications.

(ii) Borrowers must review all reported changes in household status and assess the impact of these changes on the tenant's eligibility or tenant contribution.

(iii) Borrowers must submit initial or updated tenant certification forms to the Agency within 10 days of the effective date of an initial certification or any changes in a tenant's status. The effective date of an initial or updated tenant certification form will always be a first day of the month.

(iv) Since tenant certifications are used to document interest credit and rental assistance eligibility and are a basic responsibility of the borrower under the loan documents, borrowers who fail to submit annual or updated tenant certification forms within the time period specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section will be charged overage, as specified in ยง 3560.203(c) and lost rental assistance. Unauthorized assistance, if any, will be handled in accordance with subpart O of this part.

(v) Borrowers must submit tenant certification forms to the Agency using a format approved by the Agency.

(vi) Borrowers must retain executed tenant certification forms and any supporting documentation in the tenant file for at least 3 years or until the next Agency monitoring visit or compliance review, whichever is longer.

(3) The Agency maintains the right to independently verify tenant eligibility information.
