
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 46 - REQUIREMENTS (OTHER THAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930
###### OMB Control No.
####### ยง 46.48 Procedure for investigating complaints involving commodities of a unique nature or coming from a distinct geographic area.
######## Collection of fees.

(e)(1) Any person bringing a complaint, alleging a violation of section 1309 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 shall reimburse the Secretary of Agriculture for any and all costs associated with the enforcement of that section.

(2) A non-refundable $250.00 fee for the preliminary investigation shall accompany the written complaint.

(3) An estimate of fees and charges to conduct the further investigation calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be provided the complaining person.

(i) Payment of the fees and charges shall be collected in advance by the Secretary prior to continuation of investigation of a complaint.

(ii) Payment of fees and charges may be made by cash, check, or money order payable to the Agricultural Marketing Service.

(iii) In the event that the estimated fees and charges prove to be inadequate, the complaining person will be informed of the deficiency. Any complaining person that does not reimburse the Secretary full payment for fees and charges associated with a completed investigation shall be liable to be proceeded against in any court of competent jurisdiction in a suit by the United States to collect any monetary or other damages connected with the investigation.

(iv) The complaining person will be reimbursed by the Secretary for any overpayment of fees and charges, except for the $250.00 preliminary investigation fee which is nonrefundable.
