
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Multi-Family Housing Occupancy
###### ยง 3560.152 Tenant eligibility.
####### Ineligible tenant waiver.

(d)The Agency may authorize the borrower in writing, upon receiving the borrower's written request with the necessary documentation, to rent vacant units to ineligible persons for temporary periods to protect the financial interest of the Government. Likewise, this provision may extend to a cooperative. This authority will be for the entire project for periods not to exceed one year. Within the period of the lease, the tenant may not be required to move to allow an eligible applicant to obtain occupancy, should one become available. The Agency must make the following determinations:

(1) There are no eligible persons on a waiting list.

(2) The borrower provided documentation that a diligent but unsuccessful effort to rent any vacant units to an eligible tenant household has been made. Such documentation may consist of advertisements in appropriate publications, posting notices in several public places, including places where persons seeking rental housing would likely make contacts, holding open houses, making appropriate contacts with public housing agencies and organizations, Chambers of Commerce, and real estate agencies.

(3) The borrower agrees to continue with aggressive efforts to locate eligible tenants and retain documentation of all marketing.

(4) The borrower is temporarily unable to achieve or maintain a level of occupancy sufficient to prevent financial default and foreclosure. The Agency's approval of the waiver would then be for a limited duration.

(5) The lease agreement will not be more than 12 months and at its expiration will convert to a month-to-month lease. The monthly lease will require that the unit be vacated upon 30 days notice when an eligible applicant is available.

(6) Tenants residing in Rural Rental Housing (RRH) units who are ineligible because their adjusted annual income exceeds the maximum for the RRH project will be charged the Rural Housing Service (RHS) approved note rent for the size of unit occupied in a Plan II RRH project. In projects operated under Plan I, ineligible tenants will be charged a rental surcharge of 25 percent of the approved note rent.
