
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Multi-Family Housing Occupancy
###### ยง 3560.152 Tenant eligibility.
####### Requirements for elderly housing, congregate housing, and group homes.

(c)In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the following occupancy requirements apply to elderly housing and congregate housing or group homes:

(1) For elderly housing and congregate housing, the following provisions apply:

(i) Households must meet the definition of an elderly household in ยง 3560.11 to be eligible for occupancy in elderly or congregate housing.

(ii) If non-elderly persons are members of a household where the tenant or co-tenant is an elderly person, the non-elderly persons are eligible for occupancy in the tenant's or co-tenant's rental unit.

(iii) Applicants who will agree to participate in the services provided by a congregate housing project may be given occupancy priority.

(2) For group homes, the following provisions apply:

(i) Occupancy may be limited to a specific group of tenants, such as elderly persons or persons with developmental disabilities, or mental impairments, if such an occupancy limitation is contained in the borrower's management plan.

(ii) Tenants must be able to demonstrate a need for the special services provided by the group home.

(iii) Tenants cannot be required to participate in an ongoing training or rehabilitation program.

(iv) Tenants must be selected from the market area prior to considering applicants from other areas.
