
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Multi-Family Housing Occupancy
###### ยง 3560.154 Tenant selection.
####### Priorities and preferences for admission.

(g)(1) Eligible applicants that meet the following conditions must be given priority for occupancy over all other tenants regardless of income. Such applicants, however, will be ranked among themselves by income level, giving priority first to very low-income households, then to low-income households, and finally to moderate-income households.

(i) Persons who require the special design features of a unit accessible to individuals with disabilities will have priority only for units with these features.

(ii) In congregate housing facilities, persons who agree to use the services provided by the facility will have priority over other applicants.

(2) Eligible applicants that meet any of the following conditions must be given priority over other applicants in their same income category.

(i) The applicant has a Letter of Priority Entitlement (LOPE) issued in accordance with ยง 3560.660(c).

(ii) The applicant was displaced from Agency-financed housing but was not issued a LOPE.

(iii) The applicant was displaced in a Federally declared disaster area.

(3) Borrowers receiving Section 8 project-based assistance may establish preferences in accordance with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) regulations. The use of such preferences must be documented in the project's management plan.
