
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Multi-Family Housing Occupancy
###### ยง 3560.154 Tenant selection.
####### Waiting lists.

(f)(1) When an applicant has submitted an application form the borrower must place the applicant on the waiting list. All applications, whether complete, eligible, or ineligible, will be placed on the list. The waiting list will document the final disposition of all applications (rejected, withdrawn, or placed in a unit).

(2) The date and time a complete application was submitted will be recorded on the waiting list and will establish priority for selection from the list. If an applicant submits an incomplete application (see paragraph (a) of this section), they must be notified in writing within 10 days of the items that are needed for the application to be considered complete and that priority will not be established until the additional items are received.

(3) The race and the ethnicity of each applicant shall be recorded on the waiting list. This information shall be collected for statistical purposes only and must not be used when making eligibility determinations or in any other discriminatory manner. The information shall be recorded using the race and ethnicity codes that are utilized on the Agency tenant certification form available in the servicing office.

(4) Within 10 days of receipt of a complete application, the Borrower must notify the applicant in writing that he has been selected for immediate occupancy, placed on a waiting list, or rejected.

(5) Selections from the completed applications on the waiting list shall be made in the following priority order:

(i) Very low-income applicants;

(ii) Low-income applicants; and

(iii) Moderate-income applicants.
