
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Multi-Family Housing Occupancy
###### ยง 3560.160 Tenant grievances.
####### Requirements governing the hearing.

(h)The following requirements will govern the hearing process.

(1) Subject to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the hearing will proceed before a hearing officer or hearing panel at which evidence may be received without regard to whether that evidence could be used in judicial proceedings.

(2) The hearing must be structured so as to provide basic due process safeguards for both the borrower and the tenants or prospective tenants, which must protect:

(i) The right of both parties to be represented by counsel or another person chosen as their representative;

(ii) The right of the tenant or prospective tenant to a private hearing unless a public hearing is requested;

(iii) The right of the tenant or prospective tenant to present oral or written evidence and arguments in support of their grievance or appeal and to cross-examine and refute the evidence of all witnesses on whose testimony or information the borrower relies; and

(iv) The right of the borrower to present oral and written evidence and arguments in support of the decision, to refute evidence relied upon by the tenant or prospective tenant, and to confront and cross-examine all witnesses in whose testimony or information the tenant or prospective tenant relies.

(3) At the hearing, the tenant or prospective tenant must present evidence that they are entitled to the relief sought, and the borrower must present evidence showing the basis for action or failure to act against that which the grievance or appeal is directed.

(4) The hearing officer or hearing panel must require that the borrower, the tenant or prospective tenant, counsel, and other participants or spectators conduct themselves in an orderly manner. Failure to comply may result in exclusion from the proceedings or in a decision adverse to the interests of the disorderly party and granting or denial of the relief sought, as appropriate.

(5) If either party or their representative fails to appear at a scheduled hearing, the hearing officer or hearing panel may make a determination to postpone the hearing for no more than five days or may make a determination that the absent party has waived their right to a hearing under this subpart. If the determination is made that the absent party has waived their rights, the hearing officer or hearing panel will make a decision on the grievance. Both the tenant or prospective tenant and the borrower must be notified in writing of the determination of the hearing officer or hearing panel.
