
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart E - Rents
###### ยง 3560.204 Security deposits and membership fees.
####### Allowable amounts.

(b)Borrowers may charge security deposits that are typical for the area in which the housing is located, as long as the security deposit charged a tenant does not exceed that tenant's net contribution for one month's rent or basic rent, whichever is greater.

(1) As noted in ยง 3560.102(b)(1)(viii) and ยง 3560.156(c)(18)(iii), borrowers must specify in the housing project's management plan how the amount to be charged as a security deposit will be established and must specify the amount to be charged to individual tenants in the lease to be signed by the tenant.

(2) Borrowers may charge security deposits to households receiving HUD assistance in accordance with HUD requirements.

(3) Members of a cooperative shall be required to pay a membership fee no greater than one month's occupancy charge.

(4) Additional security deposits for pets may be charged as long as the additional deposit is not greater than basic rent for 1 month. No additional security deposit for assistance animals is allowed where an assistance animal is necessary for the normal functioning of a household member with a disability.

(5) Borrowers must not charge additional security deposits based on disabilities of tenants or other personal characteristics.
