
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart F - Rental Subsidies
###### ยง 3560.257 Assigning rental assistance.
####### Priorities for rental assistance.

(a)(1) Borrowers must use the following priorities when assigning available rental assistance.

(i) First priority is to eligible very low-income tenants paying the highest percentage of their adjusted annual income for Agency approved shelter costs.

(ii) Second priority, if the housing project has vacant rental units, is to eligible very low-income applicants on the waiting list.

(iii) Third priority is to eligible low-income tenants paying the highest percentage of their adjusted annual income for Agency approved shelter costs.

(iv) Fourth priority, if the housing project has vacant rental units, is to eligible low-income applicants on the waiting list.

(v) Fifth priority is to households which are residing in a rental unit for which they do not qualify on the basis of an occupancy waiver or other special approval situations.

(2) In order to provide rental assistance to the third, fourth, and fifth priority categories, a borrower must fully document either that there are no very low-income households on the housing project's waiting list or that occupancy by low-income households is limited as follows:

(i) For housing occupied on or after November 30, 1983, no more than 5 percent of the units in the housing are occupied by low-income households; or

(ii) For housing occupied before November 30, 1983, no more than 25 percent of the units in the housing are occupied by low-income households.
