
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart G - Financial Management
###### ยง 3560.303 Housing project budgets.
####### Allowable expenses.

(1)Allowable expenses include those expenses that are directly attributable to housing project operations and are necessary to carry out successful operations.

(i) Housing project expenses must not duplicate expenses included in the management fee as defined in ยง 3560.102(i).

(ii) Actual costs for direct personnel costs of permanent and part-time staff assigned directly to the project site. This includes managers, maintenance staff, and temporary help including their:

(A) Gross salary;

(B) Employer Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) contribution;

(C) Federal unemployment tax;

(D) State unemployment tax;

(E) Workers compensation insurance;

(F) Health insurance premiums;

(G) Cost of fidelity or comparable insurance;

(H) Leasing, performance incentive, or annual bonuses that are clearly provided for by the site manager salary contract;

(I) Direct costs of travel to off-site locations by on-site staff for property business or training; and/or

(J) Retirement benefits.

(iii) Legal fees directly related to the operation and management of the property including tenant lease enforcement actions, property tax appeals and suits, and the preparation of all legal documents.

(iv) All outside account and auditing fees, if required by the Agency, directly related to the preparation of the annual audit, partnership tax returns, and 401-K's, as well as other outside reports and year-end reports to the Agency, or other governmental agency.

(v) All repair and maintenance costs for the project including:

(A) Maintenance staffing costs and related expenses.

(B) Maintenance supplies.
