
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart G - Financial Management
###### ยง 3560.302 Accounting, bookkeeping, budgeting, and financial management systems.
####### Account requirements.

(c)(1) As used in this paragraph, the term account is used interchangeably to mean a bookkeeping account (ledger) or a bank account.

(2) At a minimum, borrowers must maintain the accounts required by their loan agreement or resolution.

(3) The following list identifies the financial accounts that are required for each housing project. Additional accounts may be required by third-party lenders. Accounts are to be funded in the following priority order, except that paragraphs (c)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi) of this section are funded directly by tenant security deposits or patron capital receipts respectively:

(i) General operating account;

(ii) Real estate tax and insurance account (if not part of the general operating account or unless escrowed by the Agency);

(iii) Reserve account (unless escrowed by the Agency in accordance with ยง 3560.65);

(iv) Tenant security deposit account;

(v) Membership fee account for cooperative housing; and

(vi) For cooperative housing only, a patron capital account.

(4) Amounts escrowed for taxes and insurance may be kept in the general operating account as long as the accounting system reflects the amount escrowed.

(5) Regardless of the number or types of accounts established, the borrower must meet the following requirements:

(i) All housing project funds must be held only in financial institution accounts insured by an agency of the Federal Government or held in securities meeting the conditions in this subpart.

(ii) Funds maintained in an institution may not exceed the limit established for Federal deposit insurance. Funds exceeding the Federally insured limit under a Tax ID Number must be moved to a different qualified banking institution that will ensure the funds unless the current financial institution provides additional surety such as a collateral pledge that may already be in place.

(iii) All funds and proceeds in any account must be used only for authorized purposes as described in Agency's regulations, loan or grant documents. Use of funds for non-program purposes constitutes non-monetary default as described in ยง 3560.452(c).

(iv) All funds received and held in any account, except the tenant security deposit, membership fee, and patron capital accounts, are considered assets of the property and must be held in trust by the borrower for the loan obligations until used and serve as security, through transfers or assumptions for the Agency loan or grant until all outstanding balances are satisfied.

(v) Borrowers must be able to account for housing project funds with accounting methods or practices that maintain the proprietary identity of the funds for each project. A borrower may operate one account for multiple projects as long as the funds for each project themselves are accounted for separately.

(vi) Each borrower must have access to at least one demand deposit or checking account.

(vii) Housing project funds may not be pledged as collateral for debts without Agency approval. If such a need arises for an eligible program purpose, the borrower must obtain prior Agency approval.

(6) Tenant security deposit accounts or membership fee accounts and patron capital accounts must be maintained in a separate account in trust for the tenants or members and handled in a manner consistent with state and local laws.
