
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart G - Financial Management
###### ยง 3560.303 Housing project budgets.
####### e.g.,

(C) All bank charges related to the property including purchases of supplies (checks, deposit slips, returned check fees, service fees).

(D) Costs of site-based telephone including initial installation, basic services, directory listings, and long-distances charges.

(E) All advertising costs related specifically to the operations of that project. This can include advertising for applicants or employees in newspapers, newsletters, social media, radio, cable TV, and telephone books.

(F) Postage expense to mail out rental applications, third-party (asset income and adjustments to income) verifications, application processing correspondence (acceptance or denial letters), mailing project invoice payments, required correspondence, report submittals to various regulatory authorities for the managed property are allowable project expenses no matter what location or point of origin the mail is generated.

(G) State taxes and other mandated Tribal, State, or local fees as well as other relevant expenses required for operation of the property by a third-party governmental unit. Costs of continuation financing statements and site license and permit costs.

(H) Expenses related to site utilities.

(I) Site office furniture and equipment including site-based computer and copiers. Service agreements and warranties for copiers, telephone systems and computers are also included (if approved by the Agency).

(J) Real estate taxes (personal tangible property and real property taxes) and expenses related to controlling or reducing taxes.

(K) All costs of insurance including property liability and casualty as well as fidelity or crime and dishonesty coverage for on-site employees and the owners.

(L) All bookkeeping supplies and recordkeeping items related to costs of collecting rents on-site.

(M) All office supplies and copies related to costs of preparing and maintaining tenant files and processing tenant certifications to include electronic storage.

(N) Public relations expense relative to maintaining positive relationships between the local community and the tenants with the management staff and the borrowers. Chamber of Commerce dues, contributions to local charity events, and sponsorship of tenant activities, are examples.

(O) Tax credit compliance monitoring fees imposed by Housing Finance Authorities (HFAs).

(P) All insurance deductibles as well as adjuster expenses.

(Q) Professional service contracts (audits, owner-certified submissions in accordance with ยง 3560.308(a)(2), tax returns, energy audits, utility allowances, architectural, construction, rehabilitation and inspection contracts, capital needs assessments (CNA), etc.).

(R) Association dues to be paid by the project should be related to training for site managers or management agents. To the extent that association dues can document training for site managers or management agents related to project activities by actual cost or pro-ration, a reasonable expense may be billed to the project.

(S) Legal fees if found not guilty of civil lawsuits, commercially reasonable legal expenses and costs for defending or settling lawsuits.

(vii) With prior Agency approval, cooperatives and nonprofit organizations may use housing project funds to reimburse actual and typical asset management expenses directly attributable to ownership responsibilities. Such expenses may include:

(A) Errors and omissions insurance policy for the Board of Directors. The cost must be prorated if the policy covers multiple Agency housing properties.

(B) Board of Directors review and approval of proposed Agency's annual operating budgets, including proposed repair and replacement outlays and accruals. The cost must be prorated if the policy covers multiple Agency housing properties.

(C) Board of Directors review and approval of capital expenditures, financial statements, and consideration of any management comments noted. The cost must be prorated if the policy covers multiple Agency housing properties.

(D) The cost must be prorated if the policy covers multiple Agency housing properties.

(viii) Agency approved third party debt service for the project.
