
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart G - Financial Management
###### ยง 3560.306 Reserve account.
####### Use of the reserve account.

(g)(1) Borrowers must request Agency approval of reserve account withdrawals prior to the withdrawal. Borrowers must inform the Agency of planned uses of reserve accounts in their annual capital budget if known at budget planning time. Any item on the approved capital budget does not require additional pre-approval by the Agency.

(2) Borrowers should include any needed capital improvements based on the needs identified in an Agency approved Capital Needs Assessment (if obtained) are completed within a reasonable timeframe.

(3) The Agency will indicate any conditions governing withdrawals from a reserve account at the time it approves the withdrawal.

(4) In emergency situations, the Agency may specify special procedures to provide an expedited approval process for the use of the reserve account.

(5) The Agency may approve the use of reserve funds for operating costs when circumstances that are determined by the Agency to be beyond the borrower's control have resulted in a shortfall in the housing project's general operating account.

(6) Funds from the replacement reserve account cannot be used to pay any fees associated with the Section 538 GRRH loan guarantee, as determined by the Agency.
