
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart I - Servicing
###### ยง 3560.405 Borrower organizational structure or ownership interest changes.
####### Agency requirements.

(b)Borrowers must notify the Agency prior to the implementation of any changes in a borrower entity's organizational structure. The Agency must give its consent prior to the implementation of changes in a borrower entity's controlling interest.

(1) Borrowers must submit written requests for Agency consent to the Agency at least 45 days prior to the anticipated effective date of the proposed organizational change. The request must document that the proposed changes will not adversely affect the program purposes or security interest of the Agency and will not adversely affect tenants.

(2) If the controlling interest change involves a transfer of interest to an entity not previously holding an ownership interest in the borrower entity, the request for consent must include a written certification, executed by the party receiving the ownership interest, certifying that the recipient of the ownership interest agrees to assume responsibilities and obligations required of a borrower as established in Agency program requirements including requirements in the promissory note, loan agreement, or other document related to Agency loans held by the borrower entity.

(3) The Agency will not take a consent request for a controlling interest change under consideration if the borrower's request fails to meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
