
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart I - Servicing
###### ยง 3560.406 MFH ownership transfers or sales.
####### Requirements for ownership transfers or sales.

(d)An ownership transfer or sale of a housing project with an assumption of Agency loans by the transferee or buyer must comply with the following conditions:

(1) The transferee or buyer must be an eligible borrower under the requirements established by subpart B of this part;

(2) The transferee or buyer must agree to set basic rents at the housing project covered by the assumed loans at levels that do no exceed conventional rents for comparable units in the area, except that when determined necessary by the Agency to allow for decent, safe and sanitary housing to be provided in market areas where conventional rents are not sufficient to cover necessary operating, maintenance, and reserve costs. Basic rents may be allowed to exceed comparable rents for conventional units, but in no case by more than 150% of the comparable rent for conventional unit rent level; and

(3) The value of the housing project covered by the loans to be assumed, at the time of an ownership transfer or sale, must be sufficient to ensure that all Agency loans being assumed and all subsequent loans being offered as a part of the transfer or sale can be secured to a level that fully protects the Agency's interest. Loans from third-party sources that are not dependent on project revenue for payment will not be included in this determination.

(i) If the total value of the loans being offered as a part of an ownership transfer or sale is $100,000 or less, the security value of the housing project may be determined through either: An Agency review of monitoring reports conducted in accordance with the requirements in subpart H of this part or an appraisal paid for by the borrower and conducted in accordance with subpart P of this part.

(ii) If the total value of the loans being offered as a part of an ownership transfer or sale exceeds $100,000, the security value of the housing project must be determined through an appraisal obtained by the Agency and conducted in accordance with subpart P of this part.

(iii) The Agency may approve a loan write-down, in accordance with ยง 3560.455, prior to an ownership transfer or sale to reduce the amount of debt being assumed by the transferee or buyer.

(4) Prior to Agency approval of an ownership transfer or sale, the appropriate level of environmental review in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970 must be completed by the Agency on all property related to the ownership transfer or sale. If releases of or contamination from hazardous substances or petroleum products is found on the property, the finding must be disclosed to the Agency and the transferee or buyer and must be taken into consideration in the determination of the housing project's value.

(5) All immediate and long-term repair and rehabilitation needs must be identified by a capital needs assessment. The reserve requirements for the housing project will be reviewed by the Agency and adjusted, if necessary, to adequately cover the cost of addressing the property's capital needs. The Agency may approve the release of the current reserve amount to the transferor provided the transferee agrees to deposit the amount to cover the project's immediate needs into the reserve account at closing.

(6) The borrower and transferee must disclose to the Agency all terms, conditions, or other considerations related to the ownership transfer or sale. All side or other agreements must be disclosed and all sources and uses of funds related to the ownership transfer or sale must be disclosed.

(7) An agreement must be signed between the borrower and the transferee listing all repairs known by the borrower to be necessary to bring the housing project into compliance with Agency requirements for decent, safe, and sanitary housing as listed in subpart C of this part.

(i) The agreement must include repairs required to correct compliance violations cited in a compliance violation notice issued by the Agency.

(ii) The agreement must specify whether each repair listed will be completed by the borrower prior to the ownership transfer or by the transferee in accordance with a workout agreement developed in accordance with the requirements of ยง 3560.453 and executed between the transferee or buyer and the Agency.

(8) A civil rights compliance review, as required by 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E, will be conducted by the Agency prior to the ownership transfer or sale.

(9) During or immediately after the transfer, a review of the property must be conducted to ensure that it complies with or will comply with section 504(c) of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), which covers accessibility requirements, and the Title VI of the Fair Housing Act of 1968.

(10) A transferee must ensure that tenant certifications in compliance with subpart D of this part for all occupied rental units are on file with the Agency.

(11) A transferee must comply with insurance and bonding requirements established in subpart C of this part at the time of the transfer.

(12) A transferee must agree to submit financial reports to the Agency according to subpart G of this part.

(13) A transferee must establish that there are no liens, judgments, or other claims against the housing project other than those by the Agency and those to which the Agency has previously agreed.

(14) A limited profit Rural Rental Housing transferee's initial investment and return on investment will remain the same as that originally provided to the transferor unless:

(i) The property is transferred to a non-profit entity and the return on investment is eliminated; or

(ii) The transferee contributes additional funds for repair or rehabilitation and the Agency agrees to recognize a higher initial investment.
