
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart I - Servicing
###### ยง 3560.406 MFH ownership transfers or sales.
####### Consent request requirements.

(c)Borrowers must submit written requests for Agency consent to an ownership transfer or sale of a housing project to the Agency at least 45 days prior to proposed ownership transfer or sale date. The consent request must document that the proposed transfer or sale meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section and must include the following items:

(1) A statement disclosing any identity-of-interest between the borrower and the party to which the housing project ownership is being transferred or sold.

(2) A statement certifying that the housing project's financial accounts are funded at required levels, less authorized withdrawals, and that payments due for operation and maintenance expenses, tax assessments, insurance premiums, any required tenant security deposit accounts, and other obligations incurred as a part of the housing project operations are paid in full with no overdue balances or a statement explaining the housing project's financial situation and the reasons for overdue payments or under funded accounts.

(3) A proposed housing project budget covering the partial year, if applicable, and first full year operation following the ownership transfer or housing project sale.

(4) A written statement, signed by the proposed transferee or buyer, certifying that the transferee or buyer will assume the borrower responsibilities and obligations specified in Agency program requirements including requirements in a promissory note, loan agreement or other documents related to Agency loans held by the borrower entity.

(5) A certification from the borrower and the proposed transferee or buyer that the borrower does not and will not have a reversionary interest in the housing project.
