
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart I - Servicing
###### ยง 3560.406 MFH ownership transfers or sales.
####### Equity payments.

(e)The Agency will withhold any equity payment due to the borrower, as part of an ownership transfer or sale, if any of the following conditions exist:

(1) The borrower's indebtedness to the Agency has not been paid in full or is not being assumed by the transferee. The Agency will require that all or part of an equity payment be applied against other Agency loans owed by the borrower if payments on the other loans are not current.

(2) Any non-Agency prior liens against a housing project are not paid in full.

(3) Any housing project financial accounts are not funded at required levels, less authorized withdrawals, or any payments due for operation and maintenance expenses, tax assessments, insurance premiums, tenant security deposits or other obligations incurred as a part of housing project operations are not paid in full.

(4) Any management deficiencies cited in a compliance violation notice issued by the Agency to the borrower have not been corrected or the housing project is not operating under an approved management plan or, if applicable, an approved management agreement.

(5) Any operation and maintenance deficiencies cited in compliance violation notices issued by the Agency have not been corrected or are not scheduled for correction in a workout agreement developed in accordance with the requirements of ยง 3560.453.

(6) The borrower entity is, at the time of the ownership transfer or sale, cited by the Agency or other Federal, state, or local agencies for violations of Fair Housing or Equal Opportunity requirements.

(7) The borrower entity is, at the time of the ownership transfer or sale, cited by the Agency or any other entity involved in the financing of the housing project for misappropriation of funds.
