
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart I - Servicing
###### ยง 3560.407 Sales or other disposition of security property.
####### Request requirements.

(b)Requests for Agency approval of transactions related to security property must document that the following conditions will be met.

(1) The borrower's ability to repay the Agency debt will not be impaired;

(2) The transaction will not interfere with the successful operation of the housing project or prevent the borrower from carrying out the purpose for which the loan was made.

(3) The monetary or other consideration offered in the transaction is equal to or greater than the market value of the security property being disposed of or the rights being granted, except that right-of-way easements may be granted or conveyed with minimal or no consideration being offered if:

(i) The value of the security property will not be reduced;

(ii) The suitability of the security property for the intended purpose will not be impaired; and

(iii) The easement is granted to allow the borrower to develop additional lots or units that will be integrated into the housing project or for enhancement of streets, utilities or other services provided by a public body.

(4) The property that will remain as security for Agency loans, after any transaction related to security property, will fully secure the borrower's debt to the Agency.

(5) Borrowers must report to the Agency the total of all proceeds derived from the sale or other disposition of property serving as security for Agency loans. The proceeds from the disposition of the security property will be used for purposes approved by the Agency.
