
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart I - Servicing
###### ยง 3560.409 Subordinations or junior liens against security property.
####### Consent request requirements.

(b)Borrowers proposing to have the Agency subordinate its interest to another lender or to give a creditor a junior lien against property serving as security for an Agency loan must submit a consent request to the Agency. The consent request must document the following:

(1) The action will enable the borrower to obtain financial resources for improvements or repairs on the security property that are consistent with the purposes of the Agency loan secured by the property.

(2) The action will not adversely impact the borrower's financial condition and the borrower's ability to repay the Agency loan being secured by the property.

(3) The action will not result in basic rents at the security property that exceed conventional rents for comparable units in the area.

(4) The terms and conditions of the credit to be secured by the subordination or junior lien are not expected to adversely affect the borrowers ability to meet the terms and conditions of the Agency loan secured by the property.

(5) The proposed use of the funds obtained through the granting of a subordination or junior lien will not adversely affect the borrower's ability to meet Agency program requirements or to operate and manage the housing project in a manner consistent with program objectives.

(6) The creditor receiving the "subordination" of interest in the property or the junior lien will agree that a foreclosure or acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure will not be initiated without at least 30 days prior notice to the Agency.

(7) The subordination or junior lien is not being secured with any funding from housing project financial accounts.

(8) The "subordination" of interest or junior lien will not cause the debt from all sources to exceed the value of the security property.

(9) The transaction related to the placement of a "subordination" of interest or junior lien against the property serving as security for an Agency loan is in the best interest of the Federal Government.
