
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart I - Servicing
###### ยง 3560.408 Lease of security property.
####### Lease of a portion of the security property.

(c)The Agency may, subject to the applicable provisions governing loan purposes found in of ยง 3560.53, ยง 3560.553 and ยง 3560.603, approve the leasing of facilities related to a housing project (e.g., central kitchens, recreation facilities, laundry rooms, and community rooms) when the borrower will continue to operate the facilities for the purposes for which the loan was made. Agency approval is not required for leases with a term of less than 30 days. The Agency will only approve a lease with a term over 30 days if the following conditions are met:

(1) The lease is in the best interest of the borrower, the tenants, and the Federal Government.

(2) The amount of the consideration agreed to in the lease is adequate to pay all prorated operating and maintenance expenses, a prorated share of the annual reserve deposit, and the prorated part of the loan amortization at the note rate of interest.

(3) All compensation and considerations, whether payments, a share of proceeds, or improvements to the property paid for by the lessee, must be disclosed to the Agency. No payments or compensation for entering into a lease shall flow to the borrower or any identity-of-interest related to the borrower.

(4) The lease provides at its termination for the restoration of the leased space to its original condition or a condition acceptable to the owner and the Federal Government.

(5) Consent to the lease will not exceed 3 years at a time unless the Agency determines that a longer lease is advantageous to the borrower, the tenants, and the Federal Government.

(6) When another lienholder's mortgage requires that lienholder's consent to a lease, the borrower must obtain written consent from the lienholder before the Agency will consider approving the lease.
