
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart J - Special Servicing, Enforcement, Liquidation, and Other Actions
###### ยง 3560.453 Workout agreements.
####### Workout agreement required content.

(c)(1) Workout agreements submitted to the Agency for approval must be in writing and signed by the borrower. Workout agreements must describe proposed actions in sufficient detail to demonstrate the likelihood of the actions to prevent or correct compliance violations or cure defaults.

(2) At a minimum, workout agreements must include the following.

(i) The name and address of the housing project, project number, borrower's tax identification number, and other information necessary to identify the housing project.

(ii) A description of the potential or actual compliance violation or default situation, including an explanation of related causes, such as cash flow concerns, budget revisions, deferred maintenance, vacancies, or violations of statutes.

(iii) A definition and description of the housing project's market area, including information on housing availability, rents, and vacancy rates in the market area.

(iv) A description of the proposed actions to prevent or correct compliance violations or to cure defaults along with a date specific schedule indicating when interim and final actions will be taken to correct the compliance violation or cure the default.

(v) A description of financial and other resources necessary to prevent or correct the compliance violation or cure the default including an identification of the sources for such resources.
