
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart J - Special Servicing, Enforcement, Liquidation, and Other Actions
###### ยง 3560.455 Special servicing actions related to loan accounts.
####### Loan writedowns.

(c)A loan writedown is a reduction of a borrower's debt approved by the Agency.

(1) Loan writedowns will only be approved when they are in the best interest of the Federal Government and when the following conditions exist:

(i) Sound management of the housing project is evident or sound management practices are proposed for correction in accordance with an Agency approved workout agreement; and

(ii) The housing project's financial stability is being affected by conditions beyond the borrower's control, such as market weaknesses, unforeseen site problems, or natural disasters.

(2) Prior to Agency approval for a loan writedown, the borrower must obtain an appraisal of the housing project that concludes the " 'as-is' market value," subject to restricted rents, conducted in accordance with subpart P of this part. The Agency will not approve a loan write-down unless the appraisal indicates the Federal Government's interests are secured at the proposed writedown level.

(3) Any writedown will be conditioned on a finding that the borrower does not have the ability to pay a higher loan payment, even if the loan is reamortized.

(4) Loan writedowns may be used to allow for a loan transfer and assumption for less than the total amount of outstanding debt.
