
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart J - Special Servicing, Enforcement, Liquidation, and Other Actions
###### ยง 3560.454 Special servicing actions related to housing operations.
####### Special note rents.

(d)When a Plan II housing project is experiencing severe vacancies due to market conditions, the Agency may approve a rent less than the note rent to attract and keep tenants whose incomes, according to the formula in ยง 3560.203, would require them to pay the note rent. The reduced rent is called a Special Note Rent (SNR) and, as noted in ยง 3560.210, approval of an SNR may affect approvals of loan proposals submitted to the Agency for the market area where the SNR is in effect.

(1) An SNR rent may only be requested as a part of a proposed workout agreement and must include documentation of market conditions, the housing project's vacancy rates, evidence of marketing efforts, and other concerns necessitating the request for an SNR.

(2) Borrowers must forego the annual return to owner for each housing project's fiscal year that an SNR is in effect for all or part of a fiscal year at a housing project.

(3) SNR's may be increased, decreased, or terminated any time during a housing project's fiscal year when market conditions, vacancy rates, or other concerns that necessitated the SNR warrant a change.

(4) In addition to any state lease law requirements that might be related to the implementation of an SNR, the borrower must notify each tenant of any change in rents or utility allowances that result from approval of an SNR, in accordance with ยง 3560.205(c) and must submit the appropriate budget changes to the Agency for approval.
