
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart K - Management and Disposition of Real Estate Owned (REO) Properties
###### ยง 3560.504 Sales price and bidding process.

(a) The loan documents related to REO property sold for program purposes must contain the restrictive-use language specified in ยง 3560.662(a).

(b) Entities bidding on REO property designated to be sold as program property must submit a loan application package that meets the requirements specified in subpart B of this part.

(1) Bidders on REO property designated to be sold as program property must meet the eligibility requirements established under ยง 3560.55.

(2) Bidders determined by the Agency to be ineligible to purchase REO property designated to be sold as program property will be notified in writing. The bidding process will continue regardless of pending appeals.

(3) All offers from bidders determined to be eligible to purchase REO property designated to be sold as program property will be considered in the bidding process and must provide evidence of financial stability and credit worthiness.

(c) The Agency will determine the successful bidder on REO property designated to be sold as program property by conducting a drawing of sealed bids.

(1) The Agency may authorize the sale of an REO property by sealed bid or public auction when it is in the best interest of the Government. The Agency will publicly solicit requests for sealed bids and publicize auctions. If the highest bid is lower than the minimum acceptable bid established by the Agency, or if no acceptable bids are received, the Agency may negotiate a sale without further public notice.

(2) Bidders who desire to withdraw their bids must do so prior to the drawing date.

(d) Property designated to be sold as non-program property may be sold to entities that do not meet the Agency's eligible borrower requirements specified in ยง 3560.55, and must be sold for cash or on terms approved by the Agency. Cash sales will be given first preference and will be drawn before any sales on terms.
