
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart K - Management and Disposition of Real Estate Owned (REO) Properties
###### ยง 3560.505 Agency loans to finance purchases of REO properties.

(a) Agency loans to finance the purchase of REO property designated to be sold as program property must meet the same requirements as specified in subparts A and B of this part. In addition, the following provisions apply.

(1) At the borrower's option, the interest rate will be the prevailing rate at the time of loan approval or the prevailing rate at loan closing.

(2) Purchasers may pay closing costs from their own funds or, if allowable under subparts B, L, or M of this part, as applicable, may finance such costs as part of the Agency loan.

(b) Agency loans to finance the purchase of REO property designated to be sold as non-program property must meet the following terms.

(1) A down payment of not less than 10 percent of the purchase price is required at closing.

(2) The interest rate will equal the lesser of the prevailing interest rate at the time of loan approval or loan closing for MFH loans plus one-half percent.

(3) The note amount will be amortized over a period not to exceed 10 years. If the Agency determines that more favorable terms are necessary to facilitate the sale, the note amount may be amortized using a 30-year factor with payment in full due no later than 10 years from the date of closing (balloon payment). In no case will the term be longer than the useful life of the property.

(4) Agency loans to finance the purchase of non-program REO property are subject to the availability of funds.

(c) Loan limits and allowable uses of loan funds specified in subparts B, L, and M of this part, as applicable, are applicable to any Agency-financed (credit) sale of REO property.

(d) Title clearance and loan closing for an Agency financed sale and any subsequent loan to be closed simultaneously with the sale must meet the requirements in subpart B of this part for an initial loan, with the following exceptions:

(1) A "Quit Claim" or other non-warranty deed will be used; and

(2) The buyer must pay attorney's fees, insurance costs, recording fees and other customary fees unless they are included in a subsequent loan and the subsequent loan is for purposes other than closing costs and fees.

(e) After approval of an Agency-financed sale of occupied REO property designated to be sold as program property, but prior to closing, the purchaser must prepare a budget for housing operations in accordance with subpart B of this part. If a rent increase is necessary, procedures specified in subparts E and F of this part for calculating rents, net tenant contributions, and rental assistance will be followed by the borrower.
