
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart L - Off-Farm Labor Housing
###### ยง 3560.576 Occupancy restrictions.
####### Income.

(2)The household must meet the definition of income eligible as established in ยง 3560.152 and the tenant or co-tenant must receive a substantial portion of income from farm labor employment. To determine if a substantial portion of income is from farm labor employment, the following measures will be used.

(i) For housing rented to farm laborers and owned by public bodies, public or private nonprofit organizations, and limited partnerships when charging rent.

(A) Actual dollars earned from farm labor by domestic farm laborers other than migrant farmworkers must equal at least 65 percent of the annual income limits indicated for the Standard Federal regions as published by the Agency for their particular region of the country. For migrant farmworkers living in seasonal housing the actual dollars earned from farm labor by a domestic farm laborer must equal at least 50 percent of annual income limits indicated for the Standard Federal regions, as published by the Agency.

(B) An alternate measure for determining substantial portion of income when actual earnings are not available may be the duration of time a farm laborer worked on a farm or other farming enterprise as a domestic farmworker during the preceding 12 months. In order to be considered as substantial the farm laborer must have worked at least 110 whole days in farm work. For purposes of this section one whole day is the equivalent of at least 7 hours. When using a period of more than 1 year, a yearly average must amount to at least 110 days per year.

(ii) For housing owned by a farmer, family-farm partnership, family-farm corporation, or an association of farmers which was initially provided on a non-rental basis, a substantial portion of income is earned when housing is provided by the owner as part of employment compensation for farm labor.

(iii) When a natural disaster has occurred, such as a drought, flood, freeze, etc., figures for the 12 months preceding such disaster will be used to determine substantial portion of income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(iv) The tenant who qualifies as a domestic farm laborer residing in a property with a nonrestrictive farm labor clause in the mortgage covenants must not have adjusted income which exceeds the moderate income limit for the appropriate household size and appropriate geographical area.
