
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart M - On-Farm Labor Housing
###### ยง 3560.610 Security.

(a) Security instruments must meet the requirements established under ยง 3560.560.

(b) When feasible, the on-farm labor housing will be located on a tract of land that is surveyed such that, for security purposes, it is considered separate and distinct from the farm. The security for the loan must include a lien on the tract of land where the on-farm labor housing is located and the security must have adequate value to protect the Federal government's interest. The Agency will seek a first or parity lien position on Agency-financed property in all instances, however, the Agency may accept a junior lien position if the Federal government's interests are adequately secured.

(c) The Agency will determine the value of the security for the loan in accordance with 7 CFR part 1922, subpart B if the farm is used as security or in accordance with section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949, if only the on-farm labor housing and related land is used for security.

(d) If necessary to provide adequate security for the loan, the Agency may require that any household furnishings purchased with loan funds also be secured.

(e) Personal liability and recourse will be required of all borrowers, including the individual members, stockholders or partners of an association of farmers, family farm corporations or partnerships, respectively.
