
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### ยง 3560.653 Prepayment requests.

(a) Borrowers seeking to prepay an Agency loan must submit a written prepayment request to the Agency at least 180 days in advance of the anticipated prepayment date and must obtain Agency approval before the Agency will accept prepayment.

(b) Prior to submitting a prepayment request, borrowers must take whatever actions are necessary to provide the following items:

(1) A clear description of the loan to be prepaid, the housing project covered by the loan being prepaid, and the requested date of prepayment.

(2) A statement documenting the borrower's ability to prepay under the terms specified.

(3) A certification that the borrower will comply with any federal, state, or local laws or regulations which may relate to the prepayment request and a statement of actions needed to assure such compliance.

(4) A copy of lease language to be used during the period between the submission date and the final resolution of the prepayment request notifying tenant applicants that the owner of the housing project has submitted a prepayment request to the Agency and explaining the potential effect of the request on the lease.

(5) Borrowers are required to submit a signed release of information form along with the prepayment request. The Agency will notify nonprofit organizations and public bodies involved in providing affordable housing or financial assistance to tenants of the receipt of a borrower's request to prepay their loan(s). Additionally, the Agency is to notify nonprofit organizations and public bodies whenever a borrower, who has requested prepayment, is required or elects to offer their property for sale to a nonprofit or public body.

(6) A certification that the borrower has notified all governmental entities involved in providing affordable housing or financial assistance to tenants in the project and that the borrower has provided a statement specifying how long financial assistance from such parties will be provided to tenants after prepayment.

(7) A statement affirming that units in the property applying for prepayment will continue to be available for rent by eligible residents during the prepayment process.

(c) The Agency will review complete requests to determine if:

(1) The loan is eligible for prepayment under ยง 3560.652(b);

(2) The borrower has the ability to prepay; and

(3) The borrower has complied or has the ability to comply with applicable Federal, state, and local laws related to the prepayment request.

(d) If a prepayment request lacks full and complete information on any item, the Agency will return the prepayment request to the borrower with a letter citing the deficiencies in the prepayment request. The Agency will offer borrowers an opportunity, within 30 days following the date of the return, to address the reasons given by the Agency for the return of the prepayment request and will allow the borrower to submit a revised prepayment request.

(e) If the Agency determines that the prepayment request appropriately satisfies all the conditions listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the Agency will process the prepayment request and make a reasonable effort to enter into a new restrictive-use agreement with the borrower in accordance with ยง 3560.662 or ยง 3560.655. If the Agency determines that a loan is ineligible for prepayment or the borrower does not have the ability to prepay, the Agency will return the prepayment request to the borrower with a written explanation of the Agency's determinations.
