
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### ยง 3560.654 Tenant notification requirements.

(a) Within 30 calendar days of receiving a complete prepayment request, the Agency will send a prepayment request notice to each tenant in the housing project. Borrowers must post the Agency's prepayment request notice in public areas throughout the housing project from the date of the notice until the final resolution of the prepayment request. The prepayment request notice will establish a date and place where tenants may meet with the Agency to discuss the prepayment request and will advise tenants that:

(1) They may review all information submitted with the prepayment request except financial information regarding the borrower entity, which the Agency will withhold from tenant review unless given written permission for the release of the information from the borrower; and,

(2) They have 30 days from the date of the prepayment request notice to give the Agency comments on the prepayment request.

(b) Borrowers may provide a prepayment request notice of their own directly to tenants and may establish a date and place where tenants may meet with the borrower to discuss the prepayment request. The Agency and other providers of housing assistance for very-low, low, and moderate-income households may attend a borrower's prepayment request meeting with tenants.

(c) If the Agency agrees to accept prepayment on a loan, the Agency will send a prepayment acceptance notice to each tenant in the housing project at least 60 days prior to the prepayment date. Borrowers must post copies of the Agency's prepayment acceptance notice in public areas throughout the housing project until prepayment is made. If the prepayment acceptance was based on a borrower's agreement to comply with restrictive-use provisions, the notice will describe the restrictive-use provisions that will apply to the housing project after prepayment and the tenant's rights to enforcement of the provisions.

(d) If the borrower withdraws the prepayment request, the Agency will provide a prepayment request cancellation notice to each tenant in the housing project. Borrowers must post copies of the prepayment request cancellation notice in the public areas throughout the housing project for a period of 60 days following the date of the prepayment request cancellation notice.

(e) If the borrower agrees to accept incentives and restrictive-use provisions, the Agency will notify each tenant, in writing, of the agreement and provide a description of the restrictive-use provision.

(f) If a borrower agrees to sell a housing project involved in a prepayment request to a nonprofit organization or public body, the Agency will notify each tenant, in writing, of the proposed sale to a nonprofit organization or public body and will explain the timeframes involved with the proposed sale, any potential impact on tenants, and the actions tenants may take to alleviate any adverse impact. Borrowers must post copies of the Agency's proposed sale notice in public areas throughout the housing project until the housing project is sold or the offer to sell is withdrawn.

(g) If a tenant applicant signs a lease in a housing project for which a prepayment request has been submitted, the borrower must provide the tenant with copies of all notifications provided to tenants by the Agency or the borrower prior to the tenant's occupancy in the housing project.

(h) If a borrower is unable to sell a housing project involved in a prepayment request to a nonprofit organization or public body within 180 days as specified in ยง 3560.659, the Agency will send a notice to each tenant in the housing project explaining the potential impact of the borrower's inability to sell the housing project on tenants and the actions tenants may take to alleviate any adverse impact. Borrowers must post the Agency's notice in public areas throughout the housing project for a period of 60 days following the date of the notice.
