
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### ยง 3560.657 Processing and closing incentive offers.
####### Unfunded incentive offers.

(c)If the borrower accepts the incentive offer but the Agency is unable to fund the incentive within 15 months, the borrower may choose one of the following actions:

(1) The borrower may offer to sell the housing project in accordance with ยง 3650.659. In this case the borrower will be removed from the list of borrowers awaiting incentives.

(2) The borrower may stay on the list of borrowers awaiting incentives until the borrower's incentive offer is funded. The Agency will not negotiate the incentive offer; but, at a borrower's request, may adjust the incentive amount to reflect an updated appraisal, loan balance, and terms of third party financing.

(3) The borrower may withdraw the prepayment request and be removed from the list of borrowers awaiting incentives and either continue operating the housing project for program purposes and in accordance with Agency requirements or continue processing their prepayment process in accordance with ยง 3560.658. If the borrower chooses to withdraw their request, the borrower may resubmit an updated prepayment request, at any time, and repeat the prepayment process in accordance with this subpart.

(4) The borrower may elect to obtain a third-party equity loan provided rents will not exceed comparable rents in the market area.
