
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### § 3560.658 Borrower rejection of the incentive offer.

(a) If a borrower rejects the incentive package offered by the Agency or an Agency request to extended restrictive-use provisions, made in accordance with § 3560.662, the loan will only be prepaid if the borrower elects to agree to the following:

(1) The borrower agrees to sign restrictive-use provisions to extend restrictive-use by 10 years from the date of prepayment, and at the end of the restrictive-use period offer to sell the housing to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with § 3560.659.

(2) If housing opportunities for minorities would be lost as a result of prepayment, the borrower will offer to sell the housing to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with § 3560.659.

(b) If the borrower does not elect or agree to enter an agreement in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, then the Agency will assess the impact of prepayment on two factors: housing opportunities for minorities and the supply of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing in the market area. The Agency will review relevant information to determine the availability of comparable affordable housing for existing tenants in the market area and if minorities in the project, on the waiting list or in the market area will be disproportionately adversely affected by the loss of the affordable rental housing units.

(1) If restrictive-use provisions are in place, the borrower will agree to sign the restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, and at the end of the restrictive-use period, offer to sell the housing to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with § 3560.659.

(2) If the Agency determines that prepayment will have an adverse impact on minorities, then the borrower must offer to sell to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) If the Agency determines that the prepayment will not have an adverse effect on housing opportunities for minorities but there is not an adequate supply of decent, safe, and sanitary rental housing affordable to program eligible tenant households in the market area, the loan may be prepaid only if the borrower agrees to sign restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, to protect tenants at the time of prepayment.

(4) If the Agency determines that there is no adverse impact on minorities and there is an adequate supply of decent, safe, and sanitary rental housing affordable to program eligible tenant households in the market area the prepayment will be accepted with no further restriction.

(c) If the borrower agrees to the restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, the applicable language must be included in the release documents and the borrower must execute a restrictive-use agreement acceptable to the Agency and a deed restriction.

(d) If the borrower will not agree to applicable restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, the borrower must offer to sell to a nonprofit or public body in accordance with § 3560.659 or withdraw their prepayment request.
