
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### ยง 3560.659 Sale or transfer to nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
####### Marketing to nonprofit organizations and public bodies.

(b)If a borrower must offer the property for sale to a nonprofit organization or public body under this paragraph, the borrower must take the following actions to inform appropriate entities of the sale:

(1) The borrower must advertise and offer to sell the project for a minimum of 180 days. The borrower may choose to suspend advertising and other sales efforts while eligibility of an interested purchaser is determined. If the purchaser is determined to be ineligible, the borrower must resume advertising for the balance of the required 180 days.

(2) The Agency will assist the borrower in initially notifying nonprofit organizations and public bodies.

(3) The borrower must provide the nonprofit organizations and public bodies contacted with sufficient information regarding the housing project and its operations for interested purchasers to make an informed decision. The information provided must include the minimum value of the housing project based on the market value determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) If an interested purchaser requests additional information concerning the housing project, the borrower must promptly provide the requested materials.
