
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### ยง 3560.659 Sale or transfer to nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
####### Requirements for nonprofit organizations and public bodies.

(e)To purchase and operate a housing project, a nonprofit organization or public body must meet the following requirements:

(1) The purchaser must agree to maintain the housing project for very low- and low-income families or persons for the remaining useful life of the housing and related facilities. However, currently eligible moderate-income tenants will not be required to move.

(2) The purchaser must agree that no subsequent transfer of the housing project will be permitted for the remaining useful life of the housing project unless the Agency determines that the transfer will further the provision of housing for low-income households, or there is no longer a need for the housing project. Language to be included in the deed, conveyance instrument, loan resolution, and assumption agreement (as applicable) is provided in ยง 3560.662.

(3) The purchaser must demonstrate financial feasibility of the housing project including anticipated funding.

(4) The purchaser must certify to the Agency that no identity-of-interest relationships in accordance with ยง 3560.102(g). The purchaser must not have any identity of interest with the seller or any borrower that has previously prepaid or requested prepayment of an Agency MFH loan.

(5) The purchaser must complete an Agency-approved application and obtain Agency approval in accordance with subpart B of this part.

(6) The purchaser must make a ;good faith offer taking into consideration the value of the housing project as determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
