
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### ยง 3560.660 Acceptance of prepayments.

(a) When the Agency agrees to accept prepayment, the Agency will notify borrowers, in writing, of the conditions under which the Agency will accept prepayment including the specific restrictive-use provisions to which the borrower has agreed and the date by which the borrower must make the prepayment.

(1) Prepayment must be made 180 days from the date of the Agency's prepayment acceptance notice to the borrower.

(2) If the borrower's prepayment is not received within 180 days of the prepayment acceptance notice and the Agency has not agreed to an alternative date based on a written request from the borrower, the Agency may cancel the prepayment acceptance agreement.

(b) Tenants will be notified of the prepayment acceptance agreement in accordance with ยง 3560.654(c). If a prepayment is anticipated to result in increased net tenant contributions, displacements or involuntary relocations, the tenants, who are affected by such a circumstance, may request a Letter Of Priority Entitlement (LOPE) in accordance with ยง 3560.159(c). Tenants must request a LOPE within one year of the prepayment acceptance notice date.

(c) Owners will provide certification stating that they will meet state and local laws prior to prepayment acceptance.
