
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart O - Unauthorized Assistance
###### ยง 3560.705 Recapture of unauthorized assistance.

(a) The Agency will seek repayment of all unauthorized assistance received by a borrower or tenant, plus the cost of collection, to the fullest extent permitted by law. Agency efforts to collect unauthorized assistance may include offsets, the use of private or public collection agents, and any other remedies available. Agency findings related to unauthorized assistance determinations will be referred to credit reporting bureaus and other federal, state, or local agencies with jurisdictions related to the unauthorized assistance findings for suspension, debarment, civil or criminal action to the fullest extent permitted by law.

(b) If a borrower or tenant agrees to repay unauthorized assistance, the amount due will be the amount stated in the unauthorized assistance determination notice unless another amount has been approved by the Agency.

(c) Repayment may be made either with a lump sum payment or through payments made over a period of time. If a borrower or tenant agrees to repay unauthorized assistance, the borrower or tenant proposed repayment schedule must be approved by Agency prior to implementation. Agency approval of a repayment schedule will take into consideration the best interest of the borrower, the tenant, and the Federal Government.

(d) Borrowers must retain copies of all correspondence and a record of all conversations between the borrower and a tenant regarding unauthorized assistance received by a tenant.

(e) When a tenant, who has received unauthorized assistance due to tenant error or fraud as determined by the Agency, moves out of a housing project, the borrower is no longer responsible for recapturing the unauthorized assistance provided that the borrower notifies the Agency of the tenant's move and transfers all records related to the tenant's unauthorized assistance to the Agency within 30 days of the tenant's move. The Agency will pursue collection of the unauthorized assistance from the tenant.

(f) If a borrower refuses to enter into an unauthorized assistance repayment schedule with the Agency, the Agency will initiate liquidation procedures, in accordance with ยง 3560.456, or other enforcement actions, such as suspension, debarment, civil, or criminal penalties, in accordance with ยง 3560.461. If a tenant refuses to enter into an unauthorized assistance repayment schedule, the Agency will initiate recovery actions against the tenant.

(g) Borrowers may not use housing project funds to pay amounts due to the Agency as a result of unauthorized assistance due to borrower fraud.
