
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart N - Housing Preservation
###### ยง 3560.663 Post-payment responsibilities for loans subject to continued restrictive-use provisions.

(a) If a borrower prepays a loan and the housing project remains subject to restrictive-use provisions, the requirements of this section apply after prepayment.

(b) Owners of prepaid housing projects will be responsible for ensuring that the restrictive-use provisions agreed to as a condition of prepayment are observed.

(c) Owners must maintain appropriate documentation to demonstrate compliance with the restrictive-use provisions and must make the documentation and the housing project site available for Federal Government inspection upon request.

(1) Owners must document rent increases in accordance with subpart G of this part.

(2) Owners must document tenant eligibility in accordance with ยง 3560.152.

(3) In an Agency approved format, owners must provide the agency with a signed and dated certification within 30 days of the beginning of each calendar year for the full period of the restrictive-use provisions establishing that the restrictive-use provisions are being met.

(d) Owners must observe Agency policies on tenant grievances as described in ยง 3560.160. The Agency may enforce restrictive-use provisions through administrative and legal actions. Tenants may enforce the restrictive-use provisions by contacting the Agency or through legal action. The Agency will release the restrictive-use provisions when the Agency conditions have been met.
