
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3560 - DIRECT MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart O - Unauthorized Assistance
###### ยง 3560.708 Unauthorized assistance received by tenants.

(a) Tenant actions that require tenant repayment of unauthorized assistance received by tenants include, but are not limited to:

(1) Knowingly or mistakenly misrepresenting income, assets, adjustments to income, or household status to the borrower as required under subpart D of this part; or

(2) Failure to properly report changes in income, assets, adjustments to income, or household status to the borrower as required in subpart D of this part.

(b) Borrower actions that require borrower repayment of unauthorized assistance received by tenants include, but are not limited to:

(1) Incorrect determination of tenant income or household status by the borrower, resulting in rental assistance or interest credit that is not allowable under the provisions of subparts D, E, or F of this part, as applicable; or

(2) Assignment of rental assistance to a household that is ineligible under the requirements of subpart F of this part.

(c) When it is determined that a tenant has received unauthorized assistance, the borrower shall notify the tenant and the Agency through the procedure specified in ยง 3560.704.

(d) Borrowers may not charge tenants to pay amounts due to the Agency as a result of unauthorized assistance to tenants through borrower error.

(e) Borrowers must notify the Agency of all collections from tenants as repayments for unauthorized assistance and must remit or credit the amounts collected to applicable housing project accounts.

(f) When rental assistance was improperly assigned to a tenant, for any reason, the rental assistance benefit must be canceled and reassigned.

(1) Before a borrower notifies a tenant of rental assistance cancellation, the borrower must request Agency approval. If the Agency determines that the unauthorized rental assistance was received by the tenant due to borrower fraud or error, the borrower must give the tenant 30 days notice, in writing, that the unit was assigned in error and that the rental assistance benefit will be canceled effective on date that the next monthly rental payment is due after the end of the 30-day notice period.

(2) Tenants also must be notified, in writing, that they may cancel their lease without penalty at the time the rental assistance is canceled. Tenants must be offered an opportunity to meet with a borrower to discuss the rental assistance cancellation.
