
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3565 - GUARANTEED RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 3565.8 Civil rights compliance.

(a) All actions taken by the Agency, or on behalf of the Agency, by a lender will be conducted without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, income from public assistance or having exercised their right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, and in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA).

(b) Any action related to the sale, rental or advertising of dwellings; in the provision of brokerage services; or in making available residential real estate transactions involving Agency assistance, must be in accordance with the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicap. It is unlawful for a lender or borrower participating in the program to:

(1) Refuse to make accommodations in rules, policies, practices, or services if such accommodations are necessary to provide a person with a disability an opportunity to use or continue to use a dwelling unit and all public and common use areas; and

(2) Refuse to allow an individual with a disability to make reasonable modifications to a unit at his or her expense, if such modifications may be necessary to afford the individual full enjoyment of the unit.

(c) Any resident or prospective resident seeking occupancy or use of a unit, property or related facility for which a loan guarantee has been provided, and who believes that he or she is being discriminated against may file a complaint with the lender, the Agency or the Department of Housing and Urban Development. A written complaint should be sent to the Secretary of Agriculture or of the Department of Housing and Urban Development in Washington, DC.

(d) Lenders and borrowers that fail to comply with the requirements of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended (the Fair Housing Act), are liable for those sanctions authorized by law.

(e) For guaranteed loans with "interest credit," the following additional civil rights laws will apply and be enforced by the agency delivering this guarantee program: title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.

(f) In accordance with title VI, borrowers will be subjected to compliance reviews for projects that receive interest credit.
