
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3565 - GUARANTEED RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Guarantee Requirements
###### ยง 3565.52 Conditions of guarantee.
####### Rights and liabilities.

(a)A guarantee under this part is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States and is incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the lender had knowledge at the time the lender acquired the guarantee or assigned the loan, or in which a lender participates or condones. The guarantee will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent any loss is occasioned by a violation of usury laws, negligent servicing or origination by the lender, including a failure to acquire required security, or as a result of a use of loan funds for purposes other than those authorized by the Agency. The acts in the previous sentence constitute grounds for the refusal to make full payment under the guarantee to the lender, and will not be taken until the Agency gives the lender notice of the acts or omissions that it considers to constitute such grounds, specifying the applicable provisions of the Statute, Regulations, Loan Note Guarantee, or Lender's Agreement; the lender has not cured the acts or omissions within 90 calendar days after such notice; and the acts or omissions can reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the guaranteed mortgage or the physical condition of the property securing the guaranteed mortgage. If such acts or omissions cannot be cured within a 90 calendar day period, the 90 calendar day cure period automatically shall be extended so long as curative activities are commenced during the 90 calendar day period. At no time shall the curative period extend more than 270 calendar days from the expiration of the original 90 calendar day cure period. When a guaranteed portion of a loan is sold to a Holder, the Holder shall succeed to all rights of the lender under the Loan Note Guarantee to the extent of the portion purchased. The lender will remain bound to all obligations under the Loan Note Guarantee, Lender's Agreement, and the Agency program regulations.
