
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3565 - GUARANTEED RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Guarantee Requirements
###### ยง 3565.52 Conditions of guarantee.
####### Option Two.

(2)The Agency may provide a guarantee which will cover construction loan advances (advances) during construction. The maximum guarantee of construction advances related to a construction and permanent loan will not at any time exceed the lesser of 90 percent [or the percent established by the Agency and announced through a Notice in the] of the amount of principal and accrued interest up to default for amounts which exceed the original advance if for eligible uses of loan proceeds or 90 percent of the original principal amount and accrued interest up to default of the loan. The Agency's guarantee will cover losses to the extent aforementioned once all sureties/insurances and/or performance and payment bonds have fully performed their contractual obligations. A construction contingency reserve is required. This guarantee will be enforceable during the construction period but will cease to be enforceable once construction is completed unless and until the requirements for the continuation of the guarantee contained in the Conditional Commitment and this part are completed and approved by the Agency by the date stated in the Conditional Commitment and any Agency approved extension(s). The Agency will provide written confirmation to the lender when all of the requirements for continuation of the guarantee to cover the permanent loan have been satisfied. Any losses sustained while the guarantee is unenforceable (after the end of the construction period and, if applicable, before the continuation of the guarantee) are not covered by the guarantee. For purposes of this guarantee, the construction period will end on the earlier of:

(i) Twenty-four months from the closing of the construction loan, if the certificates of occupancy for all units in the project have not been issued by then, or

(ii) The date of the issuance of the last certificate of occupancy, if the certificates of occupancy for all units in the project are issued on or before 24 months from the closing of the construction loan.
