
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3565 - GUARANTEED RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Servicing Requirements
###### ยง 3565.405 Repurchase of guaranteed loans.
####### Repurchase by Agency.

(b)(1) If the lender does not repurchase the loan as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will purchase from the Holder the unpaid principal balance of the guaranteed portion together with accrued interest to date of repurchase, less the lender's servicing fee, within 30 calendar days after written demand to the Agency from the Holder. The guarantee will not cover the note interest to the Holder on the guaranteed loan accruing after 90 calendar days from the date of the original demand letter of the Holder to the lender requesting the repurchase. Holders of Loan Note Guarantees that have been issued prior to the effective date of this final rule may opt to adhere to the terms and conditions of the Loan Note Guarantee then in effect. In case of loan default, the Holder of a Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule will stipulate, in a written demand for repurchase, its preference for repurchase in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule. If the demand for repurchase does not stipulate a preference for repurchase in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule, the Agency will process the demand for repurchase as stated in this final rule. The Holder must stipulate a preference for repurchase in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule in the first demand for repurchase. The Holder of the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule cannot make a subsequent demand for repurchase changing the preference stipulated in the original demand for repurchase.

(2) The Holder's demand to the Agency must include a copy of the written demand made to the lender. The Holder must also include evidence of its right to require payment from the Agency. Such evidence will consist of either the original of the Loan Note Guarantee properly endorsed to the Agency or the original of an Agency approved assignment guarantee agreement, properly assigned to the Agency without recourse including all rights, title, and interest in the loan. The Holder must include in its demand the amount due including unpaid principal, unpaid interest to date of demand, and interest subsequently accruing from date of demand to proposed payment date. The Agency will be subrogated to all rights of the Holder.

(3) The Agency will notify the lender of its receipt of the Holder's demand for payment. The lender must provide the Agency with the information necessary for the Agency to determine the appropriate amount due the Holder within 10 business days from the date of the written demand letter to the lender from the Holder requesting repurchase of the guaranteed portion. The lender will furnish a current statement certified by an appropriate authorized officer of the lender stating the unpaid principal and interest then owed by the borrower on the loan and the amount then owed to any Holder. Any discrepancy between the amount claimed by the Holder and the information submitted by the lender must be resolved between the lender and the Holder before payment will be approved. The Agency will coordinate the resolution of the discrepancy. Such conflict will suspend the running of the 30 calendar day payment requirement.

(4) Purchase by the Agency does not change, alter, or modify any of the lender's obligations to the Agency arising from the loan or guarantee nor does it waive any of the Agency's rights against the lender. As Holder, the Agency will have the right to set-off any payments the Agency owes the lender.
