
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3565 - GUARANTEED RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Servicing Requirements
###### ยง 3565.405 Repurchase of guaranteed loans.
####### Repurchase by lender.

(a)The Holder may make written demand on the lender to repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan when the borrower is in default not less than 60 calendar days on principal or interest due on the loan; or the lender has failed to remit to the Holder its pro rata share of any payment made by the borrower within 30 calendar days of receipt by the lender. The Holder must concurrently send a copy of the demand letter to the Agency. The lender will notify the Holder and the Agency of its decision to repurchase within 10 business days from the date of the written demand letter by the Holder. The lender may agree to repurchase the unpaid portion of the entire loan from the Holder, even though the guarantee does not cover any unguaranteed portion of the loan held by the Holder. If the lender decides to repurchase, the lender has 30 calendar days from the date of the Holder's written demand letter to do so. The guarantee does not cover any unguaranteed portion of the loan or the note interest to the Holder on the guaranteed loan accruing after 90 calendar days from the date of the Holder's demand letter to the lender requesting the repurchase. The lender may deduct the lender's servicing fee from the repurchase amount. The lender will accept an assignment without recourse from the Holder upon repurchase. The lender is encouraged to repurchase the loan to facilitate the accounting of funds, resolve problems, and to prevent default where and when reasonable.
