
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3565 - GUARANTEED RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM
##### Subpart J - Assignment, Conveyance, and Claims
###### ยง 3565.457 Determination of claim amount.
####### Final loss.

(c)Within 30 calendar days after liquidation of all collateral, except for certain unsecured personal or corporate guarantees (as provided for in this section) is completed, a final report of loss on a form approved by the Agency must be prepared and submitted by the lender to the Agency. Before approval by the Agency of any final loss report, the lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. Upon receipt of the final accounting and report of loss, the Agency may audit all applicable documentation to determine the final loss. The lender will make its records available and otherwise assist the Agency in making any investigation. The documentation accompanying the report of loss must support the amounts shown on the report of loss form.

(1) A determination must be made regarding the collectability of unsecured personal and corporate guarantees. If reasonably possible, such guarantees should be promptly collected prior to completion of the final loss report. However, in the event that collection from the guarantors appears unlikely or will require a prolonged period of time, the report of loss will be filed when all other collateral has been liquidated, and unsecured personal or corporate guarantees will be treated as a future recovery with the net proceeds to be shared on a pro rata basis by the lender and the Agency.

(2) The lender must document that all of the collateral has been accounted for and properly liquidated and that liquidation proceeds have been properly accounted for and applied correctly to the loan.

(3) The lender will show a breakdown of any protective advance amount as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper and that payment was actually made.

(4) The lender will show a breakdown of liquidation expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper and that payment was actually made. Liquidation expenses are recoverable only from collateral proceeds.

(5) Accrued interest will be supported by documentation as to how the amount was accrued.

(6) Loss payments will be paid by the Agency within 60 calendar days after the receipt of the final loss report and accounting of the collateral.

(7) Should there be a circumstance where the lender cannot or will not sign a final report of loss, the State Director may complete the final report of loss and submit it to the Finance Office without the lender's signature. Before this action can be taken, all collateral must be disposed of or accounted for; there must be no evidence of fraud, misrepresentation, or negligent servicing by the lender; and all efforts to obtain the cooperation of the lender must have been exhausted and documented.
