
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3570 - COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Community Facilities Grant Program
###### ยง 3570.51 General.

(a) This subpart contains Rural Housing Service (RHS) policies and authorizations and establishes procedures for making essential Community Facilities Grants (CFG) authorized under section 306(a)(19) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(19)).

(b) Funds allocated for use in accordance with this subpart are also to be considered for use by federally recognized Indian tribes within a State regardless of whether State development strategies include Indian reservations within the State's boundaries. Indian tribes must have equal opportunity along with other rural residents to participate in the benefits of this program.

(c) Federal statutes provide for extending RHS financial assistance without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, and marital or familial status. To file a complaint, write the Secretary of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington DC 20250, or call 1-800-245-6340 (voice) or (202) 730-1127 (TDD). Persons with disabilities who require alternative means for communication of program information (Braille, large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TDD).

(d) Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, close relatives, or business or close personal associates is subject to the provisions of 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D. Applications for assistance are required to identify any relationship or association with an RHS employee.

(e) Copies of all forms referenced in this subpart are available in the Agency's National Office or any Rural Development field office.

(f) An outstanding judgment obtained against an applicant by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. Grant funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment.

(g) Grants made under this subpart will be administered under, and are subject to, 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, as appropriate.

(h) The income data used to determine median household income must be that which accurately reflects the income of the population to be served by the proposed facility. The median household income of the service area and the nonmetropolitan median household income for the State will be determined using 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median household income within the area to be served, this will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State, or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.

(i) CFG funds can be used for up to 75 percent of the cost to develop the facility, notwithstanding that other contributions may be from other Federal sources.

(j) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR part 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Departments' policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.
