
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 47 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT
###### Provisions Applicable to Reparation Proceedings
####### ยง 47.16 Depositions.
######## Procedure on examination.

(d)(1) The deponent shall be examined under oath or affirmation and shall be subject to cross-examination. The testimony of the deponent shall be recorded by the officer or some person under the officer's direction. In lieu of oral examination, parties may transmit written questions to the officer prior to examination and the officer shall propound the written questions to the deponent.

(2) The applicant shall arrange for the examination of the witness either by oral examination or by written questions. If the place of business of the opposing party is more than 100 miles from the place of the examination, the applicant will be required to conduct the examination by means of written questions, unless the parties otherwise agree or the examiner otherwise orders. If the examination is conducted by means of written questions, copies of the applicant's questions must be received by the other party to the proceeding and the officer at least 10 days prior to the date set for the examination unless otherwise agreed, and any cross questions of a party other than the applicant must be received by the applicant and the officer at any time prior to the time of the examination.
