
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3570 - COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Community Facilities Grant Program
###### ยง 3570.93 Regional Commission grants.

(a) Grants are sometimes made by Federal Regional Commissions (designated under Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965) for projects eligible for RHS assistance. RHS has agreed to administer such funds in a manner similar to administering RHS assistance.

(b) The transfer of funds from a Federal Regional Commission to RHS will be based on specific applications determined to be eligible for an authorized purpose in accordance with the requirements of RHS and the Federal Regional Commission.

(c) The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) is authorized under the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 to serve the Appalachian region. ARC grants are handled in accordance with the ARC Agreement which applies to all ARC grants administered by Rural Development. Therefore, a separate Project Management Agreement between RHS and ARC is not needed for each ARC grant.

(d) Grants by other Federal Regional Commissions are handled in accordance with a separate Project Management Agreement between the respective Federal Regional Commission and RHS for each Commission grant or class of grants administered by RHS.

(e) When the Agency has funds in the project, no charge will be made for administering Federal Regional Commission grant funds.

(f) When RHS has no loan or grant funds in the project, an administrative charge will be made pursuant to the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535).
