
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXV - Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3570 - COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Community Facilities Technical Assistance and Training Grants
###### ยง 3570.276 Reporting.

(a) The Grantee must provide periodic reports as required by the Agency. A financial status report, SF 425 "Federal Financial Report,", and a project performance report will be required as provided in the grant agreement. The financial status report must show how grant funds and matching funds have been used to date. A final report may serve as the last report. Grantees shall constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met and projected goals by time periods are being accomplished. The Project performance reports shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) A description of the activities that the funds reflected in the financial status report were used for;

(2) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives for that period;

(3) Reasons why established objectives were not met, if applicable;

(4) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will affect attainment of overall program objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular objectives during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accomplished by a Statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation;

(5) Objectives and timetables established for the next reporting period;

(6) A summary of the race, sex, and national origin of the Ultimate Recipients;

(7) The final report will also address the following:

(i) What have been the most challenging or unexpected aspects of this grant?

(ii) What advice would you give to other organizations planning a similar grant? What are the strengths and limitations of this grant? If you had the opportunity, what would you have done differently?

(iii) Are there any post-grant plans for this Project? If yes, how will they be financed?

(b) [Reserved]
