
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXVII - Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3700 - ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 3700.3 Functions.
###### Director, Rural Economy Division.

(f)The Director, Rural Economy Division, is responsible for conducting a program of economic and social science research and analysis on national rural and agricultural conditions and trends, and identifying and assessing the potential impact of public and private sector actions and policies that affect rural areas and the agricultural sector. General functions are:

(1) Analyzing and reporting on current economic and demographic issues facing rural areas and agricultural, especially how changes in the national and global economies affect rural areas and the agriculture sector.

(2) Determining the effects of economic, social, and governmental events and actions on the demand for and supply of rural local government services, the quality of such services, and the relationships between local services and the viability of rural communities.

(3) Developing and disseminating information on current trends in the non-metropolitan and farm populations, the number, location and characteristics of such people, and the factors associated with these trends.

(4) Developing estimates and analyzing labor force trends in rural labor markets, including analyses of unemployment and employment by industry and occupational groups, including farm labor.

(5) Developing data on the income situation of rural people and evaluating the effectiveness of alternative public policies and programs in improving incomes of rural people, especially people in disadvantaged groups.

(6) Monitoring information on and analyzing the development of rural portions of geographic regions of the United States, including changes in industry mix, impacts of energy costs, credit availability, and other economic activities.

(7) Analyzing and reporting on developments in rural and agricultural financial markets and in Federal tax laws, and their consequences for agriculture and rural economies.

(8) Collecting and disseminating financial information on farms and farm enterprises, and developing techniques necessary to measure and describe the financial condition of the agriculture sector and its components.
