
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXVII - Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3700 - ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 3700.3 Functions.
###### Director, Natural Resources and Environment Division.

(e)The Director, Natural Resources and Environment Division, is responsible for providing economic research, monitoring and statistical indicators, and staff and policy analysis of agricultural resource and environment issues including the relationship between agriculture-its practices, technologies, policies, and resource use-and the environment, including effects on the sustainability of the natural resource base, preservation of species and genetic diversity, and environmental quality. General functions are:

(1) Developing and disseminating data for assessing the use of agricultural resources and technologies by agricultural producers. These data include use and ownership of land, use of agricultural chemicals and equipment, and water use.

(2) Evaluating the implications of alternative agricultural and resource conservation policies and programs on commodity prices, consumer welfare, competitiveness, and long-range maintenance of agricultural land and water resources.

(3) Analyzing the costs, benefits, and distributional impacts of alternative policies to reduce environmental and health risk externalities associated with agriculture.

(4) Monitoring and analyzing the uses and conditions of the nation's water resources and the economic consequences of agricultural and environmental policies affecting water supply, use, and quality.

(5) Analyzing the impacts of national and global developments and domestic and international policies on the use and value of land, water, capital assets, and other agricultural production decisions.

(6) Assessing the possible impacts of proposed or anticipated domestic policy and program changes on agricultural production decisions.

(7) Assessing the effects of technology on input use and markets and evaluating the factors affecting input productivity and technology adoption.

(8) Analyzing the implications of global environmental change and sustainable development for U.S. agriculture.
