
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXVI - National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3601 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### ยง 3601.7 Requests for published data and information.
###### http://www.usda.gov/nass/

(a) Published data and reports produced by NASS since 1995 are available via the NASS Web site ator an e-mail subscription may be established via the website under Publications. Searching on the website is available by topic, by title, or by date. The titles displayed in the search include NASS's published periodicals and annual reports. Full text of all the titles is available at no cost (PDF Files beginning 1999). Printed copies and reports published after 1996 can be purchased from the ERS-NASS sales desk at the National Technical Information Center at 1 (800) 999-6779 (8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. Eastern Time, M-F).

(b) Information on published data, printed subscription rates, and historic publications is available from the Secretary, Agricultural Statistics Board, NASS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. This information is also available from the NASS website under Publications, NASS Catalog, NASS Periodicals and Annual Reports. Published data, from each State Statistical Office, are available via the NASS website under State Information or by e-mail subscription. Published data subscription forms are available from the State Statistician at each State Statistical Office. Addresses are listed in appendix A to part 3600 of this chapter.
