
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XXXVII - Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 3700 - ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 3700.3 Functions.
###### Director, Food and Consumer Economic Division.

(c)The Director, Food and Consumer Economic Division, is responsible for providing economic research, monitoring and statistical indicators, and staff and the policy analysis of consumer and food marketing issues, including: Consumption determinants and trends; consumer demand for food quality, safety, and nutrition; food security; market competition; vertical coordination; nutrition education and food assistance programs; and food safety regulation. General functions are:

(1) Analyzing consumer behavior and food choices, including research regarding the socio-demographic and economic determinants of food and nutrient consumption; consumer valuation of quality, safety, and nutrition characteristics; and the role of information in determining food choices.

(2) Examining food assistance and nutrition programs, nutritional adequacy of diets, and food security, including costs and benefits of food assistance and nutrition programs, program and policy alternatives, the extent and social cost of good insecurity, and the role of food assistance in meeting larger goals of welfare programs.

(3) Analyzing the food processing and distribution sector, including the ability of the sector to meet changing consumer demand; the effect of government market interventions to facilitate that response; and the effect of government interventions and rapid changes in the sector on consumer and producer welfare.

(4) Analyzing food safety issues, including consumer benefits from risk reduction, production tradeoffs in reducing hazards, impact of proposed regulations and international harmonization, and policy alternatives.

(5) Developing and monitoring indicators of individual, household, and market level food consumption, expenditures, and nutrients; food marketing costs, marketing margins, and farm-retail price spreads; and food safety hazards, their effects, and mitigation.
