
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.301 Introduction.

(a) This subpart contains regulations for loans made by the Agency to eligible intermediaries. This applies to borrowers, ultimate recipients and other parties involved in making such loans. The provisions of this subpart supersede conflicting provisions of any other subpart. All complete applications received before December 21, 2021 will be processed, awarded, and serviced in accordance with the existing regulatory provisions in effect at the complete application date for the program under which the application was submitted. An intermediary borrower may use the Agency-prescribed self-election template, available at the USDA Rural Development website under "Details" in the RBCS IRP program section to have its existing loans, and any loans approved under the previous regulation but not yet closed, serviced under these provisions.

(b) The purpose of the program is to alleviate poverty and increase economic activity and employment in rural communities, especially disadvantaged and remote communities in partnership with other public and private resources, and in accordance with State and regional strategy based on identified community needs. This purpose is achieved through loans made to intermediaries that establish a revolving loan fund for the purpose of providing loans to ultimate recipients to promote community development, establish new businesses, establish and support microlending programs, and create or retain employment opportunities in rural areas.

(c) Intermediaries are required to identify any known relationship or association with an Agency employee. Any processing or servicing Agency activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.

(d) Copies of all forms, regulations, and Agency procedures referenced in this subpart are available at USDA Rural Development's website under the "Resources" section, in the Rural Development National Office, or any Agency State Office.
