
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.305 Other regulatory requirements.
####### Environmental requirements.

(b)The requirements of 7 CFR part 1970 apply to this subpart. Intermediaries and ultimate recipients must consider the potential environmental impacts of their projects at the earliest planning stages and develop plans in order to minimize the potential to adversely impact the environment. Both the intermediaries and the ultimate recipients must cooperate and furnish such information and assistance as the Agency needs to make any of its environmental determinations.

(1) All IRP loans between the Agency and the intermediary are considered categorical exclusions absent the existence of extraordinary circumstances in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. All intermediaries must execute an Exhibit H, "Multi-tier Action Environmental Compliance Agreement," to RD Instruction 1970-A as part of their IRP application submitted to the Agency. The intermediary must sign a certification that they have National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) staff capable of undertaking an environmental review that meets Agency standards. For intermediaries that don't have capable staff, the Agency will deliver sufficient training to intermediaries on the environmental process and how to determine whether an ultimate recipient project is a categorical exclusion or requires an environmental assessment and review.

(2) For each proposed loan from an intermediary to an ultimate recipient using Agency IRP loan funds, an environmental review will be completed in accordance with 7 CFR 1970.55. For projects that do not qualify for a categorical exclusion, or which may be subject to an extraordinary circumstance under 7 CFR 1970.52, the intermediary will refer the project to the Agency for review under 7 CFR part 1970, subpart C. The intermediary retains responsibility for providing sufficient information for the Agency to make an environmental determination, though Agency staff may also opt to complete the environmental review with information provided by either the intermediary or ultimate recipient.

(3) The Agency will prepare an environmental impact statement for any application for a loan from Agency IRP loan funds determined to have a significant adverse effect on the quality of the human environment.
