
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.310 Eligibility requirements - intermediaries.
####### Proven record.

(c)The intermediary must have a proven lending record of successfully assisting rural business and industry or, for intermediaries that propose to finance community development, a proven lending record of successfully assisting rural community development projects of the type planned. The intermediary must have the capacity to conduct outreach and marketing, the underwriting of loan applications, and provide the servicing and monitoring of its proposed IRP portfolio.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, such record must include recent experience in loan making and servicing with loans that are similar in nature to those proposed by the intermediary and a delinquency and loss rate acceptable to the Agency. Any request for an exception must be specifically addressed in the loan application and be supported with concluding statements that relate to the items specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(2) The Agency may approve an exception to the requirement for loan making and servicing experience provided the intermediary:

(i) Itself has a proven record of successfully assisting (other than through lending) rural business and industry or rural community development projects through technical assistance or business development projects to the type and size of planned ultimate recipient borrowers; and

(ii) Will, before the loan is closed, employ individuals with loan making and servicing experience and qualifications and expertise for the operation and administration of an IRP revolving loan fund as described in ยง 4274.340(a)(1)(ii). These shall not include contracted staff and staff from affiliates of the intermediary.
