
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.320 Loan purposes.
####### IRP revolving loan fund loans.

(b)Ultimate recipients receiving loans from an IRP revolving loan fund must use those loans for business or community development projects and for projects that predominately serve communities and residents in rural areas.

(1) The Secretary may relend funds to eligible intermediaries for projects that:

(i) Promote community development;

(ii) Establish new businesses;

(iii) Establish and support microlending programs; and

(iv) Create or retain employment opportunities.

(2) Such loan purposes may include, but are not limited to, those purposes identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xx) of this section.

(i) Business and industrial acquisitions when the loan will keep the business from closing, prevent the loss of employment opportunities, or provide expanded job opportunities.

(ii) Business construction, conversion, enlargement, repair, modernization, or development.

(iii) Purchase and development of land, easements, rights-of-way, buildings, facilities, leases, or materials.

(iv) Purchase of equipment, leasehold improvements, machinery, or supplies.

(v) Pollution control and abatement.

(vi) Transportation services.

(vii) Start-up operating costs and working capital.

(viii) Interest (including interest on interim financing) during the period before the facility becomes income producing, but not to exceed three years.

(ix) Feasibility studies.

(x) Debt refinancing.

(A) The intermediary is responsible for making prudent lending decisions based on sound underwriting principles when considering the restructuring of an ultimate recipient's debt.

(B) Refinancing debts may be allowed only when it is determined by the intermediary that the project is viable, and refinancing is necessary to create new or save existing jobs or create or continue a needed service.

(xi) Reasonable fees and charges to the ultimate recipient are allowed only as specifically listed in this paragraph. Authorized fees include loan documentation and fees for recording a collateral lien, environmental data collection fees, management consultant fees, and other fees for services rendered by professionals in relation to the loan project. Professionals are generally persons licensed by States or accreditation associations, such as engineers, architects, lawyers, accountants, and appraisers. Additional charges to the ultimate recipient, whether by a fee or interest rate increase, for an intermediary's costs related to loan participations are not allowed. In addition, the intermediary shall not be charged fees related to the purchase or sale of a loan participation. The maximum amount of any fee will be what is reasonable and customary in the community or region where the project is located; provided, however, that all costs must be actual costs and shall not be marked-up beyond actual cost. Any such fees or charges are to be fully documented and justified.

(xii) Hotels, motels, tourist homes, bed and breakfast establishments, nonowner-occupied real estate, convention centers, and other tourist and recreational facilities except as prohibited by ยง 4274.321. These types of facilities are allowed when the pro rata value, supported by an analysis of the supporting real estate appraisal, of the owner's living quarters is deleted from the appraised value.

(xiii) Educational institutions.

(xiv) Revolving lines of credit provided the portion of the intermediary's total IRP revolving loan fund that is committed to, or in use for revolving lines of credit, will not exceed 25 percent at any time.

(A) All ultimate recipients receiving revolving lines of credit must reduce the outstanding balance of the revolving line of credit to zero at least once each year.

(B) The intermediary must approve all revolving lines of credit for a specific maximum amount and for a specific maximum time period, not to exceed two years.

(C) The intermediary must provide a detailed description, which will be incorporated into the intermediary's work plan and be subject to Agency approval, of how the revolving lines of credit will be operated and managed. The description must include evidence that the intermediary has an adequate system for:
