
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.330 Agency IRP loan conditions and terms.
####### Loan limits.

(f)(1) No loan to an intermediary will exceed the maximum amount the intermediary can reasonably be expected to lend to eligible ultimate recipients, in an effective and sound manner, within three years after loan closing. Only one Agency IRP loan will be approved by the Agency for an intermediary in any single fiscal year unless the additional request is from an IRP earmark that serves a different geographical area than the initial non-earmarked loan.

(2) The Agency IRP loan to an intermediary will not exceed the maximum award amount established by the Agency in an annual Notice.

(3) Intermediaries that have received one or more Agency IRP loans may apply for and be considered for additional Agency IRP loans provided that the outstanding loans of the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund are generally sound, the intermediary is in compliance with all applicable regulations and its loan agreements with the Agency, and either:

(i) The intermediary has insufficient IRP revolving loan funds available for lending to meet current and expected ultimate recipient loan demand. Funds available for lending consist of Agency IRP loan funds not yet disbursed by the Agency, revolved funds, and cash on-hand in the IRP revolving loan fund. Necessary cash reserves including, but not limited to, debt service reserves, may be deducted from the IRP revolving loan fund cash on-hand in determining funds available for lending. The intermediary must provide documentation acceptable to the Agency of the current and expected ultimate recipient loan demand; or

(ii) The Agency IRP loan will serve a geographic area not included in an area currently served by an existing IRP intermediary and it is not possible or feasible to expand the existing IRP loan's service area to include the new geographic area; and

(4) Total outstanding IRP indebtedness of an intermediary to the Agency will not exceed $15 million at any time.
