
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 47 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT
###### Provisions Applicable to Reparation Proceedings
####### ยง 47.20 Documentary procedure.
######## Where damages claimed exceed $30,000.

(2)In any proceeding in which the amount of damages claimed, either in the complaint or in the counterclaim, is greater than $30,000 (excluding interest), the examiner, whenever he or she is of the opinion that proof may be fairly and adequately presented by use of the documentary procedure provided for in this section, shall suggest to the parties that they consent to the use of such procedure. Parties are free to consent to such procedure if they choose, and declination of consent will not affect or prejudice the rights or interests of any party. A party, if he or she has not waived oral hearing, may consent to the use of the documentary procedure on the condition that depositions rather than affidavits be used. In such case, if the other party agrees, depositions shall be required to be filed in lieu of verified statements. If any party who has not waived oral hearing does not consent to the use of the documentary procedure, the proceeding will be set for oral hearing. The suggestion that the documentary procedure be used need not originate with the examiner. Any party may address a request to the examiner asking that the documentary procedure be used.
