
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.320 Loan purposes.
####### Participations.

(c)(1) Loans made to eligible ultimate recipients by eligible intermediaries in cooperation with banks and other organizations through loan participation agreements shall be considered an eligible loan to an ultimate recipient for the purposes of this program. Loan participations are allowed in the IRP program, subject to the provisions of this regulation, with the intent to assist intermediaries in the management of their revolving loan fund, to meet the needs of larger ultimate recipient projects, and to promote cooperation in community projects where multiple lenders may be involved. In a participation, the lead (originating) bank retains a partial interest in the loan, holds all loan documentation in its own name, services the loan, and deals directly with the customer for the benefit of all participants. All loan participants share in the credit risk of the associated loan up to the amount of their participation.

(2) Loan participant buyers are able to compensate for low loan demand or invest in large loans without servicing burdens and origination costs. Lenders selling loan participations can accommodate a larger credit while mitigating some of the risk by reducing their credit exposure.

(3)(i) Participation agreements between the lead lender and buying participants are executed with each transaction and must address, among other items:

(A) The obligation of the lead lender to furnish timely credit information and to provide notification of material changes in the borrower's status;

(B) Requirements that the lead lender consult with participants and obtain their consent prior to modifying any loan, guaranty, or security agreements and before taking any action on defaulted loans; and

(C) The specific rights and remedies available to the lead and participating lenders upon default of the borrower.

(ii) A Master (open ended) participation agreement between the intermediary and any lender is not allowed. All loans made through use of participation agreements must be to eligible ultimate recipients and for eligible purposes. The ultimate recipients, lead lender and all participating lenders must agree to be bound by the applicable requirements of this regulation.

(4) Participation in loans where 50 percent or more of the loan funds are used to refinance a lead lender's existing loans to the borrower are ineligible. The Agency does not consider take out or terming out a construction loan as refinancing.

(5) No more than 50 percent of an intermediary's loan funds may be used to purchase loans from any individual lender or affiliation of lenders, to prevent an exclusive relationship with a lender or lender holding company. Likewise, no more than 50 percent of the total intermediary loans to ultimate recipients may be sold or participated to an individual lender or affiliation of lenders. An exception to these limits may be requested by the intermediary and is subject to review by the Agency of the intermediary's lending portfolio, credit quality and overall use of loan participations.
