
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.330 Agency IRP loan conditions and terms.
####### Security.

(e)Security for all Agency IRP loans to intermediaries must ensure that the repayment of the loan is reasonably assured, when considered along with the intermediary's financial condition, work plan, and management ability. The intermediary is responsible for making loans to ultimate recipients in a manner that fully protects the interests of the intermediary and the Federal Government.

(1) Security for such loans may include, but is not limited to:

(i) Any realty, personalty, or intangible asset capable of being mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise encumbered by the intermediary in favor of the Agency; and

(ii) Any realty, personalty, or intangible asset capable of being mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise encumbered by an ultimate recipient in favor of the Agency.

(2) Initial security will consist of a pledge by the intermediary of all assets now in or hereafter placed in the IRP revolving loan fund, including cash and investments, notes receivable from ultimate recipients, and the intermediary's security interest in collateral pledged by ultimate recipients. Except for good cause shown, the Agency will not obtain assignments of specific assets at the time a loan is made to an intermediary or ultimate recipient. The intermediary must covenant that, in the event the intermediary's financial condition deteriorates or the intermediary takes action detrimental to prudent fund operation or fails to take action required of a prudent lender, the intermediary will provide additional security, execute any additional documents, and undertake any reasonable acts the Agency may request to protect the Federal Government interest or to perfect a security interest in any asset, including physical delivery of assets and specific assignments to the Agency. All debt instruments and collateral documents used by an intermediary in connection with loans to ultimate recipients, including all documents representing an interest in a participation loan made pursuant to ยง 4273.320 of this chapter, must be assignable.

(3) In addition to normal security documents, a first lien interest in the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund account(s) will be accomplished by a control agreement satisfactory to the Agency. Agency signatures for withdrawals are not required. The depository bank must waive its offset and recoupment rights against the depository account to the Agency and subordinate any liens it may have against the IRP depository bank account. The use of Form RD 402-1, "Deposit Agreement," or a similar form developed by the Agency's Office of the General Counsel is acceptable.
