
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.321 Ineligible loan purposes.
####### IRP revolving loan fund loans.

(b)IRP revolving loan fund loans cannot be used for any of the purposes identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (13) of this section.

(1) Assistance in excess of what is needed to accomplish the purpose of the ultimate recipient's project.

(2) Distribution, payment, or loans to the owner, partners, shareholders, or beneficiaries of the ultimate recipient or members of their families when such persons will retain any portion of their equity, or control, in the ultimate recipient. This is not intended to prevent the sale of a business among immediate family members as long as the selling immediate family member does not retain an ownership interest and the price paid is deemed to be reasonable. This type of transaction is not an arm's length transaction and reasonableness of the price paid will be based upon an appraisal acceptable to the Agency.

(3) Charitable institutions and fraternal organizations that would not have revenue from sales, fees, or stable revenue source to support their operation and repay the loan.

(4) Assistance to Federal government employees, active-duty military personnel, employees of the intermediary, or any organization for which such persons are directors or officers or have 20 percent or more ownership.

(5) A loan to an ultimate recipient that has an application pending with or a loan outstanding from another intermediary involving an IRP revolving loan fund if the total Agency IRP loans would exceed the limits established in ยง 4274.331(c).

(6) Agricultural production. For the purposes of this program, Agricultural production does not include those activities specifically listed as eligible uses of IRP revolving loan fund loans in ยง 4274.320(b)(15) through (19).

(7) The transfer of ownership unless the loan will keep the business from closing, prevent the loss of employment opportunities in the area, or provide expanded job opportunities.

(8) Community antenna television services or facilities.

(9) Any illegal activity.

(10) Any project that is in violation of either a Federal, State, or local environmental protection law or regulation or an enforceable land use restriction unless the assistance given will result in curing or removing the violation.

(11) Loans to lending and investment institutions and insurance companies.

(12) Golf courses, racetracks, or gambling facilities.

(13) An entity is ineligible if it derives more than 15 percent of its annual gross revenue (including any lease income from space or machines) from gambling activity, excluding State-authorized lottery proceeds or Tribal-authorized gambling proceeds, as approved by the Agency, conducted for the purpose of raising funds for the approved project.
