
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.320 Loan purposes.
####### 2

() Monitoring and control of the ultimate recipients' cash, inventory, and accounts receivable.

(D) If, at any time, the Agency determines that an intermediary's operation of revolving lines of credit is causing excessive risk of loss for the intermediary or the government, the Agency may terminate the intermediary's authority to use the IRP revolving loan fund for revolving lines of credit. Such termination will be by written notice and will prevent the intermediary from approving any new lines of credit or extending any existing revolving lines of credit beyond the effective date of termination contained in the notice.

(xv) Aquaculture and hydroponics, as defined in this subpart.

(xvi) Commercial fishing.

(xvii) Commercial nurseries engaged in the production of ornamental plants and trees and other nursery products such as bulbs, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of plants from seed to the transplant stage.

(xviii) Forestry, which includes businesses primarily engaged in the commercial operation of timber tracts, tree farms, and forest nurseries and related activities such as reforestation.

(xix) Value-added production.

(xx) Housing, only when related to community development projects and, limited to working capital, equipment, pre-business development costs, and other such business purposes. Agency IRP loan funds may be used to assist a housing project planner, a housing project builder, a construction sub-contractor (indirect soft costs such as architectural, engineering and legal fees), or for any other business-related aspect of a housing project that is separate from the sale and/or purchase transaction involved in transferring ownership of a single or multi-family dwelling. While the proceeds from a sale might be used by an ultimate recipient to repay an Agency IRP loan, an Agency IRP loan cannot be used to finance a residential housing purchase. Agency IRP loans may not be used to assist in the purchase of residential housing (single, multiple dwelling, etc.) as financial assistance moves outside of community development when the financial assistance (a mortgage loan) is requested for a purchase.
