
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.333 Loan agreements between the Agency and the intermediary.

The intermediary and the Agency must execute a loan agreement or a supplement to a previous loan agreement at loan closing for each Agency IRP loan. The Agency will prepare the loan agreement and the intermediary must review it prior to loan closing. The intermediary is responsible for compliance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.

(a) The loan agreement will, at a minimum, set out:

(1) The amount of the loan;

(2) The interest rate;

(3) The term and repayment schedule;

(4) The provisions for late charges. The intermediary must pay a late charge of four percent of the payment due if payment is not received within 15 calendar days following the due date. The Agency will consider the late charge as unpaid if it is not received within 30 calendar days of the missed due date for which it was imposed. The Agency will add any unpaid late charge to the loan's principal balance, and it will be due as an extra payment at the end of the term. Acceptance of a late charge by the Agency does not constitute a waiver of default.

(i) A per diem amount will be shown on the late notice sent to the intermediary. The Agency will continue sending notices to the intermediary on the late payments or any further payments until the account is in a current status.

(ii) Interest will be computed on a 365-day basis unless legal documents state otherwise.

(5) The disbursement procedure. The Agency will disburse the Agency IRP loan funds to the intermediary on an as-needed basis after the loan agreement and promissory note are executed, and after any other conditions precedent to disbursement of funds are fully satisfied. Fund disbursement requests must be submitted with an intermediary's request for Agency concurrence in accordance with the provisions of ยง 4274.352(a). Only the amount of Agency IRP loan funds necessary to fund the given ultimate recipient loan request(s) can be requested by the intermediary and disbursed by the Agency. The intermediary's equity contribution may not be used for administrative costs. When lending, the intermediary's equity contribution must be loaned out prior to or on a pro rata basis with Agency IRP loan funds. For purposes of computing interest, the date of each draw down of an Agency IRP loan constitutes the date the funds are advanced under the loan agreement.

(6) The provisions regarding default. On the occurrence of any event of default (monetary or nonmonetary), the Agency may declare all or any portion of the debt and interest to be immediately due and payable and may proceed to enforce its rights under the loan agreement or any other instruments securing or relating to the loan and in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Any of the following may be regarded as an "event of default" at the sole discretion of the Agency:

(i) Failure of the intermediary to carry out the specific activities in its loan application as approved by the Agency or failure to comply with the loan terms and conditions of the loan agreement, any applicable Federal or State laws, or with such USDA or Agency regulations as may be applicable; or

(ii) Failure of the intermediary to pay within 15 calendar days of its due date any installment of principal or interest on its promissory note to the Agency; or

(iii) The occurrence of:

(A) The intermediary becoming insolvent, or ceasing, being unable, or admitting in writing its inability to pay its debts as they mature, or making a general assignment for the benefit of, or entering into any composition or arrangement with creditors; or

(B) Proceedings for the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or liquidator of the intermediary, in whole or of a substantial part of its assets, being authorized or instituted by or against it; or

(iv) Submission or making of any report, statement, warranty, or representation by the intermediary or agent on its behalf to the Agency in connection with the financial assistance awarded hereunder which is false, incomplete, or incorrect in any material respect; or

(v) Failure of the intermediary to remedy any material adverse change in its financial or other condition (such as the representational character of its board of directors, loan making or policymaking body) arising since the date of the Agency's award of assistance hereunder, which condition was an inducement to the Agency's original award.

(7) Insurance requirements.

(i) Hazard insurance with a standard mortgage clause naming the intermediary as beneficiary will be required by the intermediary on every ultimate recipient's project funded from the IRP revolving loan fund in an amount that is at least the lesser of the depreciated replacement value of the property being insured or the amount of the loan. Hazard insurance includes fire, windstorm, lightning, hail, business interruption, explosion, riot, civil commotion, aircraft, vehicle, marine, smoke, builder's risk, public liability, property damage, flood or mudslide, or any other hazard insurance that may be required to protect the security. The intermediary's interest in the insurance will be assigned to the Agency, upon the Agency's request, in the event of default by the intermediary.

(ii) Workmen's compensation insurance on ultimate recipients is required in accordance with State law.

(iii) The intermediary is responsible for determining if an ultimate recipient funded from the IRP revolving loan fund is located in a special flood or mudslide hazard area. If the ultimate recipient is in a flood or mudslide area, then flood or mudslide insurance must be provided in accordance with 7 CFR part 1806, subpart B.

(iv) Intermediaries must provide fidelity bond coverage, or employee dishonesty insurance, for all persons who have access to intermediary funds. Coverage may be provided either for all individual positions or persons, or through "blanket" coverage providing protection for all appropriate employees and officials.
