
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.340 Application content and submittal.
####### i.e.,

(i) A copy of the intermediary's policy and/or procedural manuals to assure the Agency that its mission and goals align with that of the Agency (economic development, promoting rural America, regional and community development.)

(ii) Document the intermediary staff's ability in administering an IRP revolving loan fund. This includes but is not limited to providing a complete listing of all personnel responsible for administering this program along with a statement of their qualifications and experience. Their qualifications should detail their experience in loan making, loan monitoring, and loan servicing including liquidations. The personnel may be either members or employees of the intermediary's organization or on an as-needed basis and as allowed by this regulation, contracted personnel.

(A) Contract personnel may be used to train, develop, or supervise the intermediary's members or employees or to provide interim expertise while the intermediary develops relevant in-house experience. The intermediary may contract for general services, such as clerical, administrative, and accounting services, and loan packaging.

(B) The intermediary cannot use contract personnel for the primary functions of its lending program, such as credit analysis and loan underwriting. The intermediary is expected to make an independent lending decision for each ultimate recipient loan request.
