
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.340 Application content and submittal.
####### e.g.,,see

(iv) Provide a set of goals, strategies, and anticipated outcomes for the intermediary's program. Outcomes should be expressed in quantitative or observable terms (jobs created for low-income area residents or self-empowerment opportunities funded) and should relate to the purpose of IRP (ยง 4274.301(b)); and

(v) Provide specific information as to whether and how the intermediary will ensure that technical assistance is made available to ultimate recipients and potential ultimate recipients. Describe the qualifications of the technical assistance providers, the nature of technical assistance that will be available, and expected and committed sources of funding for technical assistance. If other than the intermediary itself, describe the organizations providing such assistance and the arrangements between such organizations and the intermediary.

(2) Demonstrate the sustainability of the IRP revolving loan fund by providing a pro forma balance sheet at start-up and projected balance sheets for at least three additional years including the accumulated debt service reserve; financial statements for the last three years, or from inception of the operations of the intermediary if less than three years; and projected cash flow and earnings statements for at least three years supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. The projected earnings statement and balance sheet must include one set of projections that shows the IRP revolving loan fund only and a separate set of projections that shows the intermediary organization's total operations. Also, if principal repayment on the IRP loan will not be scheduled during the first three years, the projections for the IRP revolving loan fund must extend to include at least one year with a full annual installment on the IRP loan.

(3) Provide documentation of any funds pledged and intermediary equity contribution that will be contributed into the IRP revolving loan fund to serve as security for the IRP loan and to pay for part of the cost of the ultimate recipient projects. Pledged funds and intermediary equity contribution must be in the form of cash and cannot be in-kind contributions; they also cannot be used as intermediary operating funds.

(4) A written agreement of the intermediary to abide with the Agency audit requirements.

(5) Complete organizational documents including: Articles of Incorporation (initial loan only), Bylaws, Certificate of Good Standing, a list of board members with contact and lending experience information, and evidence of authority to conduct the proposed lending activities (this could be satisfied with a statement from the intermediary's counsel).

(6) Document the intermediary's ability to commit financial resources under the control of the intermediary to the establishment of an IRP program. This should include a statement of the sources of non-Agency funds for administration of the intermediary's operations and financial assistance for projects.

(7) Demonstrate to Agency satisfaction that the intermediary has secured commitments of significant financial support from public agencies and private organizations.

(8) Provide evidence to Agency satisfaction that the intermediary has a proven record of obtaining private or philanthropic funds for the operation of similar programs to the IRP.

(9) Latest audit report, if available.

(10) The IRP revolving loan fund plan is a separate stand-alone document from the application and may be revised in the future. The IRP revolving loan fund plan governs the use of the RLF and must be developed by the intermediary and approved by the Agency. The plan must include a detailed explanation of the intermediary's fund administration policies and procedures in addition to planned fund use after the original IRP loan funds in the RLF have revolved. Fund administration policies and procedures must also include information regarding the review and approval of loans from the fund, including participation loans. The revolving loan fund plan must be of sufficient and detailed information to provide the Agency with a complete understanding of what the intermediary will accomplish by lending the funds to the ultimate recipient and the complete mechanics of how the funds will get from the intermediary to the ultimate recipient, including participation loans. The IRP revolving loan fund plan must contain:

(i) The specific service area of the IRP fund including names of counties and or cities within the service area;

(ii) Borrower eligibility criteria, loan purposes, loan priorities, fees, rates, terms, loan limits and collateral requirements;

(iii) Details on the intermediary's application review and approval process;

(iv) Details on the method of disposition of funds to the ultimate recipient, monitoring of the ultimate recipient's accomplishments, the reporting requirements by the ultimate recipient's management; and
