
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.341 Processing applications for loans.
####### Intermediary equity contribution for subsequent Agency IRP loan applications only (maximum 35 points).

(2)The Agency will award points under this criterion if the applicant is applying for a subsequent IRP loan and will contribute cash matching funds to the IRP revolving loan fund. The Agency must determine that the applicant's performance under their current IRP loan(s) is satisfactory in accordance with ยง 4274.330(f)(3) in order to be eligible and receive points under this criterion. These funds must be deposited into the IRP account at closing and are subject to the same use restrictions as Agency IRP Funds and loaned out to ultimate recipients in conjunction with Agency IRP loan funds. Cash matching funds are not required of subsequent applicants, but points will be awarded if the amount of cash matching funds contributed will be:

(i) At least 5 percent, but less than 10 percent of the requested loan amount-10 points.

(ii) At least 10 percent, but less than 20 percent of the requested loan amount-15 points.

(iii) At least 20 percent, but less than 30 percent of the requested loan amount-20 points.

(iv) At least 30 percent, but less than 40 percent of the requested loan amount-25 points.

(v) At least 40 percent, but less than 50 percent of the requested loan amount-30 points.

(vi) More than 50 percent of the requested loan amount-35 points.
