
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4274 - DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart D - Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
###### ยง 4274.346 Agency IRP loan closing.

(a) At the time the Agency IRP loan is closed, the intermediary must certify to each condition identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) No major changes have been made in the work plan except those approved in the interim by the Agency.

(2) All requirements of the letter of conditions have been met.

(3) There has been no material adverse change in the intermediary's financial condition, nor any other material adverse change in the intermediary, for any reason, during the period of time from the Agency's loan approval to loan closing regardless of the cause or causes of the change and whether or not the change or causes of the change were within the intermediary's control. Any material adverse change must be explained by the intermediary. The Agency, at its sole discretion, will consider any such change and determine if it is significant enough to prevent the loan closing or disbursement of IRP loan funds to the intermediary.

(4) There are no claims or liens of laborers, materialmen, contractors, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, or other parties pending against the security of the intermediary, and that no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the security of the intermediary when the security instruments are filed.

(5) Certification that the intermediary has received Agency staff training on how to distinguish a required environmental review from a categorical exclusion in accordance with ยง 4274.305(b).

(b) The Agency will consider all requested changes submitted in writing to the Agency but will only approve changes that do not materially affect the IRP project, its capacity, employment, original projections, or credit factors.
