
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 4279.29 Eligible lenders.

An eligible lender must be domiciled in a State as defined in ยง 4279.2 or the District of Columbia and must not be debarred or suspended by the Federal government. If the lender is under a cease and desist order, or similar constraint, from a Federal or State agency, the lender must inform the Agency. The Agency will evaluate the lender's eligibility on a case-by-case basis, given the risk of loss posed by the cease and desist order. The Agency will only approve loan guarantees for lenders with adequate capital to fund and cover potential liquidation expenses for guaranteed loans it proposes to make and adequate experience and expertise to make, secure, service, and collect B&I loans. The lender must provide documentation as to its capital and experience in commercial lending. The lender and the Agency will execute a Lender's Agreement for each lender approved to participate in the program. If a valid Lender's Agreement already exists, it is not necessary to execute a new Lender's Agreement with each loan guarantee; however, a new Lender's Agreement must be executed with any existing lenders making new loans on or after August 2, 2016. The Agency may revoke a lender's eligible status at any time for cause, including those examples cited in ยง 4279.29(c).
