
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 4279.30 Lenders' functions and responsibilities.
####### General.

(a)(1) Lenders have the primary responsibility for the successful delivery of the guaranteed loan program. Any action or inaction on the part of the Agency does not relieve the lender of its responsibilities to originate and service the loan guaranteed under this subpart, subpart B of this part, and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter. Lenders may contract for services but are ultimately responsible for underwriting, loan origination, loan servicing, and compliance with all Agency regulations. No person may act as, or work for, both a loan packager and loan service provider on the same guaranteed loan. All lenders obtaining or requesting a loan guarantee are responsible for:

(i) Processing applications for guaranteed loans;

(ii) Developing and maintaining adequately documented loan files, which must be maintained for at least 3 years after any final loss has been paid;

(iii) Recommending only loan proposals that are eligible and financially feasible;

(iv) Properly closing the loan and obtaining valid evidence of debt and collateral in accordance with sound lending practices prior to disbursing loan proceeds;

(v) Keeping an inventory accounting of all collateral items and reconciling the inventory of all collateral sold during loan servicing, including liquidation;

(vi) Monitoring construction and operation;

(vii) Distributing loan funds;

(viii) Servicing guaranteed loans in a prudent manner, including liquidation if necessary;

(ix) Reporting all conflicts of interest, or appearances thereof, to the Agency;

(x) Following Agency regulations and agreements; and

(xi) Obtaining Agency approvals or concurrence as required.

(2) This subpart, subpart B of this part, and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter contain the regulations for this program, including the lenders' responsibilities. If a lender fails to comply with these requirements, the Agency may reduce any loss payment in accordance with the applicable regulations.
