
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter B - Marketing of Perishable Agricultural Commodities
##### PART 47 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT
###### Provisions Applicable to Reparation Proceedings
####### ยง 47.24 Rehearing, reargument, reconsideration of orders, reopening of hearings, reopening after default.
######## Petitions to rehear, reargue, and reconsider.

(a)A petition for rehearing or reargument of the proceeding, or for reconsideration of the order, shall be made by petition to the Secretary filed with the Hearing Clerk within 20 days after the date of service of the order. Every such petition shall state specifically the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the alleged errors. If the Secretary concludes that the questions raised by the petition have been sufficiently considered in the issuance of the order, the Secretary shall dismiss the petition without service on the other party. Otherwise, the Secretary shall direct that a copy of the petition be served upon such party by the Hearing Clerk. The filing of a petition to rehear or reargue a proceeding, or to reconsider an order, shall automatically operate to set aside the order pending final action on the petition. Only one petition to rehear, reargue, or reconsider will be accepted from each party, except when a mathematical or typographical error appears in either the original decision and order or in the decision on reconsideration.
