
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.115 Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
####### Cooperative equity security guarantees.

(b)The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity issued by a cooperative organization or for a fund that invests primarily in cooperative organizations. In either case, the guarantee must significantly benefit one or more entities eligible for assistance under the B&I program.

(1) "Similar equity" is any special class of equity stock that is available for purchase by non-members and/or members and lacks voting and other governance rights.

(2) A fund that invests "primarily" in cooperative organizations is determined by its percentage share of investments in and loans to cooperatives. A fund portfolio must have at least 50 percent of its loans and investments in cooperatives to be considered eligible for loan guarantees for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity.

(3) The principal amount of the loan will not exceed $10 million.

(4) The maximum term is 7 years or no longer than the specified holding period for redemption as stated by the stock offering, whichever is less.

(5) All borrowers purchasing preferred stock or similar equity must provide documentation of the terms of the offering that includes compliance with State and Federal securities laws and financial information about the issuer of the preferred stock to both the lender and the Agency.

(6) Issuer(s) of preferred stock must be a cooperative organization or a fund and must be able to issue preferred stock to the public that, if required, complies with State and Federal securities laws.

(7) A fund must use a loan guaranteed under this subpart to purchase preferred stock that is issued by cooperatives.

(8) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the preferred stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a borrower default. For the purpose of recovering losses from loan defaults, lenders may take ownership of all equities purchased with such loans, including additional shares derived from reinvestment of dividends.

(9) Shares of preferred stock that are purchased with guaranteed loan proceeds cannot be converted to common or voting stock.

(10) In the absence of adequate provisions for investors' rights to early redemption of preferred stock or similar equity, a borrower must request from a cooperative or fund issuing such equities a contingent waiver of the holding or redemption period in advance of share purchases. This contingent waiver provides that in the event a borrower defaults on a loan financed under the guaranteed loan program, the borrower waives any ownership rights in the stock, and the lender and Agency will then have the right to redeem the stock.

(11) Guaranteed loans for the purchase of preferred stock must be prepaid in the event a cooperative or fund that issued the stock exercises an early redemption. If the cooperative enters into bankruptcy, to the extent the cooperative can redeem the preferred stock, the borrower is required to repay the loan from the redemption of the stock.
