
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### § 4279.116 New Markets Tax Credit program.
####### Loan guarantees for Qualified Active Low Income Community Businesses (QALICB).

(a)(1) To be an eligible lender for a loan guarantee that involves NMTCs, the organization must meet the applicable eligibility criteria in § 4279.29 as otherwise modified by paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Sub-entities under the control of a non-regulated lender approved as a lender for this program do not need to separately meet the requirements of § 4279.29(b). An eligible non-regulated lender may modify its list of eligible sub-entities under its control at any time by notifying the Agency in writing.

(ii) In order to take advantage of the requirement exemption in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the non-regulated lender must include in its application to be a lender each sub-entity under its control and must clearly define the multiple-entity organizational and control structure. In addition, the lender must include each such sub-entity in the audited financial statements, commercial loan portfolio, and commercial loan performance statistics.

(2) The provisions of § 4279.117(q) notwithstanding, a lender that is a Department of Treasury certified Community Development Entity (CDE) or subsidiary of a CDE (sub-CDE) may have an ownership interest in the borrower provided that each of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section is met.

(i) The lender does not have an ownership interest in the borrower prior to the guaranteed loan application.

(ii) The lender does not take a controlling interest in the borrower.

(iii) The lender cannot provide equity or take an ownership interest in a borrower at a level that would result in the lender owning 20 percent or more interest in the borrower.

(iv) In its guaranteed loan application, the lender provides an Agency-approved exit strategy when the NMTCs expire after the seventh year. The CDE's (or sub-CDE's) exit strategy must include a general plan to address the lender's equity in the project, and, if the lender will divest its equity interest, how this will be accomplished and the impact on the borrower.

(3) Notwithstanding § 4279.117(p), a CDE's (or sub-CDE's) ownership interest in the borrower does not constitute a conflict of interest. The Agency will mitigate the potential for or appearance of a conflict of interest by requiring appropriate loan covenants regarding limitations on dividends and distributions of earnings be established, as well as other covenants in accordance with § 4279.161(b)(11). The Agency will also ensure that the lender limits waivers of loan covenants and future modifications of loan documents.

(4) For purposes of calculating tangible balance sheet equity, the CDE's or sub-CDE's loan that is subordinated to the guaranteed loan will be considered equity when calculating tangible balance sheet equity. The QALICB's financial statements must be prepared in accordance with GAAP.
