
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.115 Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
####### Cooperative stock purchase program.

(a)The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of cooperative stock by individual farmers or ranchers in a farmer or rancher cooperative established for the purpose of processing an agricultural commodity. The cooperative may use the proceeds from the stock sale to recapitalize, to develop a new processing facility or product line, or to expand an existing production facility. The cooperative may contract for services to process agricultural commodities or otherwise process value-added agricultural products during the 5-year period beginning on the operation startup date of the cooperative in order to provide adequate time for the planning and construction of the processing facility of the cooperative. Loan proceeds must remain in the cooperative from which stock was purchased, and the cooperative must not reinvest those funds into another entity. The Agency may also guarantee loans for the purchase of transferable stock shares of any type of existing cooperative, which would primarily involve new or incoming members. Such stock may provide delivery or some form of participation rights and may only be traded among cooperative members. Paragraphs (5) through (7) of this section are not applicable for guaranteed loans for the purchase of transferable cooperative stock.

(1) The maximum loan amount is the threshold established in ยง 4279.161(c), and all applications will be processed in accordance with ยง 4279.161(c).

(2) The maximum term is 7 years.

(3) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a borrower default.

(4) The lender must complete a written credit analysis of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit analysis of the cooperative prior to making its first stock purchase loan.

(5) The borrower may provide financial information in the manner that is generally required by commercial agricultural lenders.

(6) A feasibility study of the cooperative is required for startup cooperatives and may be required by the Agency for existing cooperatives when the cooperative's operations will be significantly affected by the proceeds that were generated from the stock sale.

(7) The Agency will conduct an appropriate environmental assessment on the processing facility and will not process individual applications for the purchase of stock until the environmental assessment on the cooperative processing facility is completed. Typically, an individual loan for the purchase of cooperative stock is considered a categorical exclusion.
