
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.120 Fees and charges.
####### Annual renewal fee.

(b)The annual renewal fee is paid by the lender to the Agency once a year. Payment of the annual renewal fee is required in order to maintain the enforceability of the guarantee as to the lender.

(1) The Agency will establish the rate of the annual renewal fee in an annual notice published in theThe amount of the annual renewal fee is determined by multiplying the outstanding principal loan balance as of December 31 of each year by the annual renewal fee rate by the percentage of guarantee. The rate that is in effect at the time the loan is obligated remains in effect for the life of the guarantee on the loan.

(2) Annual renewal fees are due on January 31. Payments not received by April 1 are considered delinquent and, at the Agency's discretion, may result in the Agency terminating the guarantee to the lender. The Agency will provide the lender 30 calendar days' notice that the annual renewal fee is delinquent before terminating the guarantee. Holders' rights will continue in effect as specified in Form RD 4279-5, "Loan Note Guarantee," and Form RD 4279-6, "Assignment Guarantee Agreement," unless the holder took possession of an interest in the Loan Note Guarantee knowing the annual renewal fee had not been paid. Until the Loan Note Guarantee is terminated by the Agency, any delinquent annual renewal fees will bear interest at the note rate, and any delinquent annual renewal fees, including any interest due thereon, will be deducted from any loss payment due the lender. For loans where the Loan Note Guarantee is issued between October 1 and December 31, the first annual renewal fee payment is due January 31 of the second year following the date the Loan Note Guarantee was issued.

(3) Lenders are prohibited from selling guaranteed loans on the secondary market if there are unpaid annual renewal fees.
