
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.119 Loan guarantee limits.
####### Percentage of guarantee.

(b)The percentage of guarantee, up to the maximum allowed by this section, is a matter of negotiation between the lender and the Agency. The maximum percentage of guarantee is 80 percent for loans of $5 million or less, 70 percent for loans between $5 and $10 million, and 60 percent for loans exceeding $10 million. For subsequent guaranteed loans, the maximum percentage of guarantee will be based on the cumulative amount of outstanding principal and interest of any existing B&I guaranteed loans and the new loan request. Notwithstanding the preceding, the Administrator may, at the Administrator's discretion, grant an exception allowing guarantees of up to 90 percent on loans of $5 million or less if the conditions of either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) are met. Each fiscal year, the Agency will establish a limit on the maximum portion of guarantee authority available for that fiscal year that may be used to guarantee loans with an increased percentage of guarantee. The Agency will publish a notice announcing this limit in the.

(1) The project to be financed is a high-priority project as defined in ยง 4279.2. Priority points will be awarded in accordance with the criteria contained in ยง 4279.166; or

(2) The lender documents, to the satisfaction of the Agency, that the loan will not be made and the project will not be completed due to the bank's legal or regulatory lending limit if the higher percentage of guarantee is not approved.
