
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.131 Credit quality.

The Agency will only guarantee loans that are sound and that have a reasonable assurance of repayment. The lender is responsible for conducting a financial analysis that involves the systematic examination and interpretation of information to assess a company's past performance, present condition, and future viability. The lender is primarily responsible for determining credit quality and must address all of the elements of credit quality in a comprehensive, written credit analysis, including capacity (sufficient cash flow to service the debt), collateral (assets to secure the loan), conditions (borrower, economy, and industry), capital (equity/net worth), and character (integrity of management), as further described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The lender's analysis is the central underwriting document and must be sufficiently detailed to describe the proposed loan and business situation and document that the proposed loan is sound. The lender's analysis must include a written discussion of repayment ability with a cash-flow analysis, history of debt repayment, borrower's management, necessity of any debt refinancing, and credit reports of the borrower, principals, and any parent, affiliate, or subsidiary. The lender's analysis must also include spreadsheets and discussion of the 3 years of historical balance sheets and income statements (for existing businesses) and 2 years of projected balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements, with appropriate ratios and comparisons with industrial standards (such as Dun & Bradstreet or the Risk Management Association). All data must be shown in total dollars and also in common size form, obtained by expressing all balance sheet items as a percentage of assets and all income and expense items as a percentage of sales.
