
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.131 Credit quality.
####### Capital/equity.

(d)(1) A minimum of 10 percent tangible balance sheet equity (or a maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio of 9:1) will be required at loan closing for borrowers that are existing businesses. A minimum of 20 percent tangible balance sheet equity (or a maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio of 4:1) will be required at loan closing for borrowers that are new businesses. For energy projects, the minimum tangible balance sheet equity requirement range will be between 25 percent and 40 percent (or a maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio between 3:1 and 1.5:1) at loan closing, considering whether the business is an existing business with a successful financial and management history or a new business; the value of personal/corporate guarantees offered; contractual relationships with suppliers and buyers; credit rating; and strength of the business plan/feasibility study.

(2) Tangible balance sheet equity will be determined based upon financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP except that, for the purposes of this subpart, leasehold improvements are to be considered tangible assets when making the tangible balance sheet equity calculation. The capital/equity requirement must be met in the form of either cash or tangible earning assets contributed to the business and reflected on the borrower's balance sheet. Transfers of assets at fair market value between related parties, which are not arm's length transactions, must be in accordance with GAAP and require evidence that the transaction was entered into at market terms. Tangible equity cannot include appraisal surplus, bargain purchase gains, or intangible assets (except for leasehold improvements). Owner subordinated debt may be included when the subordinated debt is in exchange for cash injected into the business that remains in the business for the life of the guaranteed loan. The note or other form of evidence must be submitted to the Agency in order for subordinated debt to count towards meeting the tangible balance sheet equity requirement.

(3) The lender must certify, in accordance with ยง 4279.181(a)(9)(i), that the capital/equity requirement was determined, based on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP, and met, as of the date the guaranteed loan was closed, giving effect to the entirety of the loan in the calculation, whether or not the loan itself is fully advanced. A copy of the loan closing balance sheet must be included with the lender's certification.

(4) In situations where a real estate holding company and an operating entity are dependent upon one another's operations and are effectively one business, they must be co-borrowers, unless waived by the Agency when the Agency determines that adequate justification exists to not require the entities to be co-borrowers. The capital/equity requirement will apply to all borrowing entities on a consolidated basis, and financial statements must be prepared both individually and on a consolidated basis.

(5) In situations where co-borrowers are independent operations, the capital/equity requirement will apply to all co-borrowers on an individual basis.

(6) For sole proprietorships and other situations where business assets are held personally, financial statements must be prepared using only the assets and liabilities directly attributable to the business. Assets, plus any improvements, must be valued at the lower of cost or fair market value.

(7) Increases in the equity requirement may be imposed by the Agency. A reduction in the capital/equity requirement for existing businesses may be permitted by the Administrator under the following conditions:

(i) Collateralized personal and/or corporate guarantees, in accordance with ยง 4279.132, when feasible and legally permissible, are obtained; and

(ii) All pro forma and historical financial statements indicate the business to be financed meets or exceeds the median quartile (as identified in the Risk Management Association's Annual Statement Studies or similar publication) for the current ratio, quick ratio, debt-to-worth ratio, and debt coverage ratio.
