
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.167 Planning and performing development.
####### Issuing the Loan Note Guarantee prior to project completion.

(b)If the lender requests that the Loan Note Guarantee be issued prior to construction or completion of a project, the lender must have a construction monitoring plan acceptable to the Agency and undertake the added responsibilities set forth in this paragraph. The lender must monitor the progress of construction and undertake the reviews and inspections necessary to ensure that construction conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local code requirements; proceeds are used in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents; and that funds are used for eligible project costs. The lender must expeditiously report any problems in project development to the Agency.

(1) In cases of takeout of interim financing where the Loan Note Guarantee is issued prior to construction or completion of a project, the promissory note must contain the terms and conditions of the interim financing and the permanent financing and convert the interim financing to the permanent note as the Loan Note Guarantee can only be placed on one note.

(2) Prior to disbursement of construction funds, the lender must have:

(i) A complete set of plans and specifications for the project on file;

(ii) A detailed timetable for the project with a corresponding budget of costs setting forth the parties responsible for payment. The timetable and budget must be agreed to by the borrower;

(iii) A person, who may be the project architect or engineer, with demonstrated experience relating to the project's industry, confirm that the budget is adequate for the planned development;

(iv) A firm, fixed-price construction contract with an independent general contractor with costs and provisions for change order approvals, a retainage percentage, and a disbursement schedule; a 100 percent performance/payment bond on the borrower's contractor; or a contract with an independent disbursement and monitoring firm where project construction and completion are guaranteed. A bonding agent must be listed on Treasury Circular 570; and

(v) Contingencies in place to handle unforeseen cost overruns without seeking additional guaranteed assistance. These are to be agreed to by the borrower.

(3) Once construction begins, the lender is to:

(i) Use any borrower funds in the project first;

(ii) Ensure that the project is built to support the functions at the level and quality contemplated by the borrower through the use of accepted architectural and engineering practices. There is no absolute requirement that the goal be achieved by the use of a professional inspection. However, if after careful review, it appears that the use of a professional inspector is the only method that ensures the project is built to support the functions at the level and quality contemplated by the borrower through the use of accepted architectural and engineering practices, one may be required by the Agency. If one is required, inspections must be made by a qualified, independent inspector prior to any progress payment. If other less expensive or rigorous methods will achieve the same result, they may be utilized. The decision will be made on a case-by-case basis and must be reasonable under the specific circumstances of the case;

(iii) Obtain lien waivers from all contractors and materialmen prior to any disbursement; and

(iv) Provide at least monthly, written reports to the Agency on fund disbursement and project status.

(4) Once construction is completed, the lender is to provide the Agency with a copy of the Notice of Completion or similar document issued by the relevant building jurisdiction.
