
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.190 Business and Industry national COVID-19 Public Health Emergency Loans.
####### Eligible use of funds.

(c)(1) The purpose of any B&I CARES Act Program Loan must be to cover costs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the coronavirus pandemic in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. B&I CARES Act Program Loans should not exceed the amount needed to overcome the financial distress caused by the COVID-19 National Emergency.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 4279.113, B&I CARES Act Program guaranteed loans will be limited to loans for working capital loan purposes in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Loan proceeds may be used only to support facilities and business operations in rural areas and the Borrower must have been in operation on February 15, 2020. Loan proceeds must be disbursed through multiple draws on an as-needed monthly basis.

(3) Eligible Working Capital uses of B&I CARES Act Program Loan funds are limited to:

(i) Wages, salaries, sales commissions to employees, group healthcare benefits, and other employee benefits;

(ii) Administrative expenses and administrative service contracts;

(iii) Property insurance, hazard insurance, and other business insurance;

(iv) Principal and interest payments excluding owner/stockholder debt and related-party debts;

(v) Rent, payments on leases, and routine maintenance;

(vi) Utilities;

(vii) Inventory, feed, seed, fertilizer and chemicals, livestock (excluding livestock for breeding) and supplies;

(viii) Marketing, shipping, and other expenses incurred through normal business operations or such additional expenses due to the national COVID-19 Public Health Emergency;

(ix) Taxes; and

(x) Loan costs and essential loan-related expenses.
