
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.190 Business and Industry national COVID-19 Public Health Emergency Loans.
####### Loan amount limits.

(d)(1) The provisions of ยง 4279.119(a) do not apply to B&I CARES Act Program Loans. The total amount of B&I and B&I CARES Act Program Loans to one borrower (including the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions, the outstanding principal and interest balance of any existing B&I guaranteed loans, and the new loan request) cannot exceed $25 million.

(2) The amount of the B&I CARES Act Program Loan shall be based on a cash flow analysis and must not be greater than the amount needed to cure problems caused by the COVID-19 emergency so that the business is reestablished on a successful basis. Losses and business operating expenses that were adequately paid by insurance or by loans or grants from other sources will not be covered by B&I CARES Act Program Loans. LB&I CARES Act Program Loans may be used to supplement insurance payments or assistance from other sources when the insurance coverage or other assistance is insufficient.

(3) The maximum loan amount of the B&I CARES Act Program Loan for working capital purposes may not exceed 12 times the borrower's total average monthly costs of eligible working capital loan purposes less the total amount of covered loans received under the provisions of section 1102 and Section 1110(a)(2) of the CARES Act and other Federal emergency assistance received.

(4) Borrowers receiving B&I CARES Act Program Loans in an amount less than the maximum loan amount in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, may apply for subsequent loans under this section up to an accumulative amount of B&I CARES Act Program loans not to exceed the maximum loan amount.
