
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart B - Business and Industry Loans
###### ยง 4279.190 Business and Industry national COVID-19 Public Health Emergency Loans.
####### Filing preapplications and applications.

(m)(1) B&I CARES Act Program Loan borrowers with existing B&I loans do not need to resubmit their historical financial statements that have been previously submitted through routine loan servicing actions.

(2) Loans for working capital are classified as categorical exclusions for purposes of the Agency's environmental review policies and procedures in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. These actions normally do not require an applicant to submit environmental documentation with the application. However, based on the review of the project description, the Agency may request additional environmental documentation from the applicant at any time, specifically if the Agency determines that extraordinary circumstances may exist.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 4279.161(b), a draft loan agreement is not required, a business plan or feasibility study is not required, and lenders may substitute and rely on the borrower's tax returns when financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP are not available from the borrower. Agricultural producers' financial records must meet the industry's standard accounting practices.

(4) A lender or borrower may combine applications for a B&I CARES Act Program loan for working capital with an application for B&I appropriated fiscal year funds. The provisions of this section do not apply to applications for B&I appropriated fiscal year funds.
