
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### General
####### ยง 4279.205 Prohibition under Agency programs.

(a) No loan guaranteed by the Agency under this subpart will be conditioned on any requirement that the recipient(s) of such assistance accept or receive electric service from any particular utility, supplier, or cooperative.

(b) No loan guaranteed by the Agency may be made with the proceeds of any obligation the Interest on which is excludable from income under 26 U.S.C. 103 or a successor statute. Funds generated through the issuance of tax-exempt obligations may neither be used to purchase the guaranteed portion of any Agency guaranteed loan nor may an Agency guaranteed loan serve as Collateral for a tax-exempt issue. The Agency may guarantee a loan for a Project which involves tax-exempt financing only when the guaranteed loan funds are used to finance a part of the Project that is separate and distinct from the part which is financed by the tax-exempt obligation, and the guaranteed loan has at least a Parity security position with the tax-exempt obligation.

(c) The Agency may not issue a guarantee for a loan where there may be, directly or indirectly, a Conflict of Interest or an appearance of a Conflict of Interest involving any action by the Agency.

(d) The Agency may not guarantee lease payments.

(e) The Agency may not guarantee loans made by other Federal agencies.
