
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Eligibility Requirements
####### ยง 4279.210 Project eligibility requirements.

(a) The Project must be located in a State.

(b) The Project must be for either:

(1) The development, construction, and Retrofitting of Technologically New Commercial-Scale processing and manufacturing equipment and required facilities that will be used to convert Renewable Chemicals and other biobased outputs of Biorefineries into end-user products on a Commercial Scale; or

(2) The development, construction, or Retrofitting of a Commercial-Scale Biorefinery using Eligible Technology.

(c) The Borrower and other principals involved in the Project must make a significant equity investment in the Project in the form of cash contribution. Equity does not include loans to the Project. The Agency will evaluate the adequacy of equity in its credit evaluation in accordance with ยง 4279.215(b).

(d) Eligible Project Costs are only those costs associated with the items listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section, as long as the items are assets owned by the Borrower or expenses incurred by the Borrower and the items are an integral and necessary part of the Project, as determined by the Agency. A Project may consist of multiple facilities or components located at multiple locations.

(1) Purchase and installation of equipment (new, refurbished, or remanufactured), including an integrated demonstration unit if the integrated demonstration unit will be used by the Borrower in the Project after the Project is developed and in operation.

(2) New construction or Retrofitting of existing facilities including reasonable contingency reserves, land acquisition, site improvements and development, and associated costs such as surveys, title insurance, title fees, and recording or transfer fees.

(3) Permit and license fees and fees and charges for professional services. Professional services are those rendered by entities generally licensed or certified by States or accreditation associations, such as architects, engineers, accountants, attorneys, or appraisers, and those rendered by Loan Packagers (excluding finders fees). The Borrower may pay fees for professional services needed for planning and developing a Project provided that the amounts are reasonable and customary in the area. Professional fees may be included as an eligible use of loan proceeds.

(4) Working Capital.

(5) Cost of necessary insurance and bonds.

(6) Cost of financing, including capitalized Interest during construction period, legal fees, transaction costs, and customary fees charged by the lender, excluding the guaranteed loan fee and annual renewal fees.

(7) Cash reserve accounts required by the Lender or Agency, such as a debt service reserve account.

(8) Any other item identified by the Agency in a notice published in the.

(9) The Agency will consider refinancing only under either of the two conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Permanent financing used to refinance interim construction financing of the proposed Project only if the application for the guaranteed loan under this subpart was approved prior to closing the interim loan for the construction of the Project.

(ii) Refinancing that is no more than 20 percent of the loan for which the Agency is guaranteeing and the purpose of the refinance is to enable the Agency to establish a first lien position with respect to pre-existing Collateral subject to a pre-existing lien and the refinancing would be in the best financial interests of the Federal Government.

(10) A borrower is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.

(e) Ineligible Project costs include:

(1) Distribution or payment to an individual owner, partner, stockholder, or beneficiary of the Borrower or a close relative of such an individual when such individual will retain any portion of the ownership of the Borrower;

(2) Any line of credit;

(3) Any equipment, processes, and related costs of such equipment used for processing corn kernel starch into biofuel, including as an incidental or secondary product; and

(4) Payment in excess of actual costs (such as profit, overhead, and indirect costs) incurred by the contractor or other service provider on a contract or agreement that has been entered into at less than an Arm's Length Transaction or with an appearance of or a potential for Conflict of Interest.
