
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Eligibility Requirements
####### ยง 4279.208 Lender eligibility requirements.

(a) An eligible Lender is any Federal or State chartered bank, Farm Credit Bank, other Farm Credit System institution with direct lending authority, and Bank for Cooperatives. These entities must be subject to credit examination and supervision by either an agency of the United States or a State. Credit unions subject to credit examination and supervision by either the National Credit Union Administration or a State agency are eligible Lenders. The National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corporation is also an eligible Lender. Savings and loan associations, mortgage companies, insurance companies, and other lenders not meeting the above criteria are not eligible.

(b) The Lender must demonstrate that it meets the FDIC definition of Well Capitalized at the time of application and at time of issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee. This information may be identified in FDIC Call Reports and Thrift Financial Reports. If the information is not identified in the Call Reports or Thrift Financial Reports, the Lender will be required to calculate its levels and provide them to the Agency.

(c) The Lender must not be debarred or suspended by the Federal government.

(d) If the Lender is under a cease-and-desist order, or similar constraint, from a Federal or State agency, the Lender must inform the Agency. The Agency will evaluate the Lender's eligibility on a case-by-case basis given the risk of loss posed by the cease-and-desist order or similar constraint, as applicable.

(e) The Agency will only approve loan guarantees for Lenders with adequate experience and expertise, from similar projects, to make, secure, service, and collect loans approved under this subpart.
