
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Conditions of Guarantee
####### ยง 4279.225 Repurchase from Holder.
######## Repurchase by Lender.

(a)A Lender has the option to repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan from a Holder within 30 days of written demand by the Holder when the Borrower is in Default not less than 60 days on principal or Interest due on the loan; or when the Lender has failed to remit to the Holder its Pro Rata share of any payment within 30 days of the Lender's receipt thereof from the Borrower. The repurchase by the Lender will be for an amount equal to the unpaid guaranteed portion of principal and accrued Interest less the Lender's servicing fee. The Holder must concurrently send a copy of the demand letter to the Agency. The Lender must accept an assignment without recourse from the Holder upon repurchase. The Lender is encouraged to repurchase the loan, upon written demand from the Holder, to facilitate the accounting of funds, resolve any loan problem, and resolve the Default, where and when reasonable. The benefit to the Lender is that it may re-sell the guaranteed portion of the loan in order to continue collection of its servicing fee if the Default is cured. The Lender must notify, in writing, the Holder and the Agency of its decision.
