
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Conditions of Guarantee
####### ยง 4279.226 Replacement of document.
######## e.g.,

(vi) For the Holder, evidence demonstrating current ownership of the Loan Note Guarantee and Promissory Note or the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. If the present Holder is not the same as the original Holder, a copy of the endorsement of each successive Holder in the chain of transfer from the initial Holder to present Holder must be included. If copies of the endorsement cannot be obtained, best available records of transfer must be submitted to the Agency (order confirmation, canceled checks, etc.).

(2) An indemnity bond acceptable to the Agency must accompany the request for replacement except when the Holder is the United States, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal corporation, a State or territory, or the District of Columbia. The indemnity bond must be with surety except when the outstanding principal balance and accrued Interest due the present Holder is less than $1 million verified by the Lender in writing in a letter of certification of balance due. The surety must be a qualified surety company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury and listed in Treasury Department Circular 570.

(3) All indemnity bonds must be issued and payable to the United States of America acting through the Agency. The bond must be in an amount not less than the unpaid principal and Interest. The bond must hold the Agency harmless against any claim or demand that might arise or against any damage, loss, costs, or expenses that might be sustained or incurred by reasons of the loss or replacement of the instruments.

(4) In those cases where the guaranteed loan was closed under the provision of the multi-note system, the Agency will not attempt to obtain, or participate in the obtaining of, replacement Promissory Notes from the Borrower. The Holder is responsible for bearing the costs of Promissory Note replacement if the Borrower agrees to issue a replacement instrument. Should such Promissory Note be replaced, the terms of the Promissory Note cannot be changed. If the evidence of debt has been lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced, such evidence of debt must be replaced before the Agency will replace any instruments.
