
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Loan Processing
####### ยง 4279.232 Guaranteed loan funding.
######## i.e.,

(a) The amount of a loan guaranteed for a Project under this subpart will not exceed 80 percent of total Eligible Project Costs. Total Federal participation will not exceed 80 percent of total Eligible Project Costs. The Borrower needs to provide the remaining 20 percent from non-Federal sources to complete the Project. Eligible Project Costs are specified in ยง 4279.210(d). If an eligible Borrower receives other direct Federal funding (direct loans or grants) for a Project, the maximum amount of the loan that the Agency will guarantee under this subpart must be reduced by the same amount of the other direct Federal funding that the eligible Borrower received for the Project. For example, an eligible Borrower is applying for a loan guarantee on a $100,000,000 Project. If the Borrower receives no other direct Federal funding for this Project and requests an $80,000,000 guaranteed loan, the Agency will consider a guarantee on the $80,000,000. However, if this Borrower receives $10,000,000 in other direct Federal funding for this Project, the Agency will only consider a guarantee on $70,000,000.

(b) The maximum principal amount of a loan guaranteed under this subpart is $250 million to one Borrower; there is no minimum amount.

(c) The maximum guarantee on the principal and Interest due on a loan guaranteed under this subpart will be determined as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) If the loan amount is equal to or less than $125 million, 80 percent for the entire loan amount unless all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section are met, in which case 90 percent for the entire loan amount.

(i) Total Federal participation, sum of the amount of the loan requested and other direct Federal funding, must not be greater than 60 percent of total Eligible Project Costs;

(ii) Feedstock and Off-Take Agreements of at least 1 year in duration; and

(iii) Total of revenues from tax credits, carbon credits, or other Federal or State subsidies cannot be greater than 10 percent of the Project's total revenues on an annual basis, in the Borrower's base case of financial projections.

(2) If the loan amount is more than $125 million and less than $150 million, 80 percent for the entire loan amount.

(3) If the loan amount is equal to or more than $150 million but less than $200 million, 70 percent on the entire loan amount.

(4) If the loan amount is $200 million up to and including $250 million, 60 percent on the entire loan amount.
