
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Loan Processing
####### ยง 4279.231 Fees.
######## Annual Renewal Fee.

(b)The Annual Renewal Fee, which may be passed on to the Borrower, is paid by the Lender to the Agency for as long as the guarantee is outstanding and is payable during the construction period.

(1) The amount of the annual renewal fee is calculated by the outstanding principal loan balance as of December 31 of each year multiplied by the Annual Renewal Fee rate, multiplied by the percent of guarantee. The rate is the rate in effect at the time the loan is obligated, and will remain in effect for the life of the loan.

(2) The Annual Renewal Fee is paid once a year and is required to maintain the enforceability of the guarantee as to the lender. Annual Renewal Rees are due on January 31. Payments not received by April 1 are considered delinquent and, at the Agency's discretion, may result in cancellation of the guarantee to the lender. Holders' rights will continue in effect as specified in the Loan Note Guarantee and Assignment Guarantee Agreement. Any delinquent Annual Renewal Fees will bear interest at the note rate and will be deducted from any loss payment due the lender. For loans where the Loan Note Guarantee is issued between October 1 and December 31, the first Annual Renewal Fee payment will be due January 31 of the second year following the date the Loan Note Guarantee was issued.

(3) When the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the Agency will not continue collection of the Annual Renewal Fee.

(4) Unless otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in thethe Annual Renewal Fee rate will be as follows:

(i) One hundred basis points (1 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally greater than 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.

(ii) Seventy five basis points (0.75 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally greater than 65 percent but less than or equal to 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.

(iii) Fifty basis points (0.50 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally for 65 percent or less of Total Eligible Project Costs.
