
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Loan Processing
####### ยง 4279.234 Terms of loan.

The loan terms, other than Interest, must be the same for both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan.

(a) The repayment term for a loan under this subpart will be no greater than the lesser of 20 years from the date of loan closing or the useful life of the Project, as determined by the Lender and confirmed by the Agency. Both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan must be amortized over the same term.

(b) A loan's maturity will take into consideration the use of proceeds, the useful life of assets being financed, and the Borrower's ability to repay the loan.

(c) The first installment of principal and Interest will, if possible, be scheduled for payment after the Project is operational and has begun to generate income. However, the first full installment must be due and payable within three years from the date of the Promissory Note and be paid at least annually thereafter. In cases where there is an Interest-only period, Interest will be paid at least annually from the date of the Promissory Note.

(d) Only loans that require a periodic payment schedule that will retire the debt over the term of the loan without a balloon payment will be guaranteed except the final payment may be the funds held in the debt service reserve account.
