
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Loan Processing
####### ยง 4279.245 Personal and corporate guarantees.

(a) Unconditional personal and corporate guarantees are required for the full term of the loan from Persons owning 20 percent or greater interest in the borrower.

(b) When warranted by an Agency assessment and its credit evaluation, guarantees may also be required of parent, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, Persons owning less than a 20 percent interest in the borrower, or Persons whose ownership interest in the Borrower is held indirectly through intermediate entities.

(c) The Agency may require the guarantees to be secured.

(d) Partial guarantees and exemptions to the requirement for guarantees may be requested by the Lender and are subject to concurrence by the Agency approval official on a case-by-case basis when warranted by an Agency assessment and its credit evaluation in accordance with ยง 4279.215(b). If partial guarantees are required, the partial guarantee will be at least equal to each owner's percentage of interest in the Borrower multiplied by the loan amount.

(e) All personal and corporate guarantors must execute Form RD 4279-14, "Unconditional Guarantee," and any guarantee form required by the Lender. The Agency will retain the original, executed Form RD 4279-14.

(1) Any amounts paid by the Agency on behalf of an Agency Borrower will constitute a Federal Debt owed to the Agency by the Borrower.

(2) Any amounts paid by the Agency pursuant to a claim by a Lender will constitute a Federal Debt owed to the Agency by a guarantor of the loan, to the extent of the amount of the guarantor's guarantee.

(3) In all instances under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, Interest charges will be assessed at the Promissory Note Interest rate on the date a loss claim is paid.
