
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Loan Processing
####### ยง 4279.244 Appraisals.

(a) Lenders must obtain appraisals for real estate when the value of the Collateral exceeds $250,000. Each appraisal must be reported in a manner that summarizes all of the information necessary for the intended users to understand the report and contain all information pertinent to the appraiser's opinions and conclusions.

(1) Appraisals must not be more than one year old, and a more recent appraisal may be requested by the Agency in order to reflect more current market conditions. For loan servicing purposes, an appraisal may be updated in lieu of a complete new appraisal when the original appraisal is more than one year old, but less than two years old.

(2) Specialized appraisers will be required to complete appraisals under this section. The Agency may approve a waiver of this requirement only if a specialized appraiser does not exist in a specific industry. The Agency will require documentation that the appraiser has the necessary experience and competency to appraise the property in question.

(3) All real property appraisals associated with Agency guaranteed loan origination and servicing transactions must meet the requirements contained in the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) of 1989 and the appropriate guidelines contained in Standards 1 and 2 of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP) and be performed by a State Certified General Appraiser. Notwithstanding any exemption that may exist for transactions guaranteed by a Federal Government agency, all appraisals obtained by the Lender for origination and servicing must conform to the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluations Guidelines established by the Lender's primary Federal or State regulator.

(4) All appraisals must include consideration of the potential effects from a release of hazardous substances or petroleum products or other environmental hazards on the Market Value of the Collateral. The Lender must complete and submit its technical review of the appraisal. For construction Projects, the Lender must use the "as-completed" Market Value of the real estate to determine value of the real estate property. For all proposals, Lenders must obtain a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment in accordance with ASTM International Standards, which should be provided to the appraiser for completion of the appraisal. For additional guidance and information refer to "Phase I Environmental Site Assessment," published by the American Society of Testing and Materials.

(b) Chattels must be evaluated in accordance with normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. Chattel appraisals must reflect the age, condition, and remaining useful life of the equipment. If the appraisal is completed by a State licensed/certified appraiser, the appraisal report must comply with USPAP Standards 7 and 8.
