
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Loan Processing
####### ยง 4279.256 Construction planning and performing development.
######## Project control.

(b)(1) The Lender must monitor the progress of construction and confirm the reviews and inspections necessary to ensure that construction conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local code requirements have been performed; proceeds are used in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents; and that loan funds are used for Eligible Project Costs in accordance with the purposes approved by the Agency in its Conditional Commitment. The Lender must expeditiously report any problems in Project development to the Agency.

(2) The Lender must ensure an onsite Project inspector or independent engineer monitors the Project.

(3) The Lender must monitor the Project to confirm that the Project will be completed with available funds and, once completed, will be used for its intended purpose and produce products in the quality and quantity proposed in the completed application approved by the Agency. Once construction is completed, the Lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the notice of completion.

(4) Prior to the disbursement of construction funds, the Lender shall:

(i) Have on file the major drawings issued for construction and major equipment specifications issued for procurement;

(ii) Have a detailed timetable for the Project with a corresponding budget of costs, setting forth the parties responsible for payment;

(iii) Ensure that the independent engineer confirms that the budget is adequate for the Project;

(iv) Require the Borrower to have a firm fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contract in place which includes performance guarantees customary and reasonable for a project of this nature or engineering, construction, and procurement contracts in place with vendors and construction contractors for the construction of the Project, each on customary terms and conditions;

(v) Require provisions for change order approvals, a retainage percentage, and a disbursement schedule;

(vi) Require the Borrower to have contingencies in place to handle unforeseeable cost overruns without seeking additional Agency assistance. These contingencies must be agreed to by the Agency.
