
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Loan Processing
####### ยง 4279.256 Construction planning and performing development.
######## Reporting during construction.

(i)Lenders must submit monthly construction and quarterly progress reports to the Agency, as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2), respectively, of this section and the Borrower information specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(1) Monthly construction reports documenting the use of the Project funding until construction is completed. The reports must include the following:

(i) Certifications for each draw request:

(A) Certification by the independent engineer to the Lender that the work referred to in the draw has been successfully completed;

(B) Certification from the Borrower and independent engineer or that the proceeds of the prior draw have been applied to Eligible Project Costs in accordance with the draw request and that the contractors have delivered mechanics' lien waivers in connection with such draw; and

(C) Certification from the Borrower as to its compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act confirmed by the independent engineer;

(ii) List of invoices;

(iii) Detail of equity and Guaranteed Loan funds paid to date;

(iv) Status of construction and inspection reports; and

(v) Concerns, potential problems, cost overruns, etc.

(2) Quarterly progress reports by the end of each Calendar Quarter, unless more frequent ones are needed as determined by the Agency, through the time when the facility is producing at its designed capacity at a steady state. These reports must contain, at a minimum, planned and completed construction milestones, loan advances, and personnel hiring, training, and retention and commissioning and ramp-up milestones and performance reports. This requirement applies to both the development and construction of Commercial-Scale Biorefineries and to the Retrofitting of existing facilities using Eligible Technology for the development of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals. The Lender must expeditiously report any problems in Project development to the Agency.

(3) Once construction is completed, the Lender must provide the Agency with:

(i) A copy of all required material building permits, with sign-offs;

(ii) Notice of Completion or an Agency approved equivalent; and

(iii) Final accounting of sources and uses of all Project funds.
