
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Applications
####### ยง 4279.261 Application for loan guarantee content.
######## Qualifications of Project team.

(i)The Project team will vary according to the complexity and scale of the Project. The Project team must have demonstrated expertise in similar Advanced Biofuel and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemical, as applicable, technology development, engineering, installation, and maintenance. Identify Borrower's, including its principals', prior experience in bioenergy projects and the receipt of Federal financial assistance, including the amount of funding, date received, purpose, and outcome, for such projects. Authoritative evidence that Project team service providers have the necessary professional credentials or relevant experience to perform the required services for the development, construction, and Retrofitting, as applicable, of technology for producing Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, if applicable, must be provided. In addition, authoritative evidence that vendors of proprietary components can provide necessary equipment and spare parts for the facility to operate over its useful life must be provided. The application must:

(A) Discuss the proposed Project delivery method. Such methods include a design-bid-build method, where a separate engineering firm may design the Project and prepare a request for bids and the successful bidder constructs the Project at the Borrower's risk, and a design -build method, often referred to as "turnkey," where the Borrower establishes the specifications for the Project and secures the services of a developer who will design and build the Project at the developer's risk;

(B) Discuss the manufacturers of major components of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemical technology equipment being considered in terms of the length of time in business and the number of units installed at the capacity and scale being considered;

(C) Discuss the Project team members' qualifications for engineering, designing, and installing similar projects, including any relevant certifications by recognized organizations or bodies. Provide a list of the same or similar projects designed, installed, or supplied and currently operating, with references if available; and

(D) Describe the facility operator's qualifications and experience for servicing, operating, and maintaining such equipment or projects. Provide a list of the same or similar projects designed, installed, or supplied and currently operating, with references if available.
