
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Applications
####### ยง 4279.261 Application for loan guarantee content.
######## Phase 2 application contents.

(k)(1) Updates, as appropriate, to contents of application materials submitted in application phase 1.

(2) An appraisal conducted as specified under ยง 4279.244.

(3) A proposed Loan Agreement or a sample Loan Agreement with an attached list of the proposed Loan Agreement provisions as specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section.

(i) Prohibition against assuming liabilities or obligations of others.

(ii) Restriction on dividend payments.

(iii) Limitation on the purchase or sale of equipment and fixed assets.

(iv) Limitation on compensation of officers and owners.

(v) Minimum Working Capital or current ratio requirement.

(vi) Maximum debt-to-net worth ratio.

(vii) Restrictions concerning consolidations, mergers, or other circumstances.

(viii) Limitations on selling the business without the concurrence of the Lender.

(ix) Repayment and amortization of the loan.

(4) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(5) Under the direction of the Agency, an evaluation and rating of the total Project's indebtedness, without consideration for a government guarantee, from a nationally-recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO), as defined by the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission, for all Projects with total Eligible Project Costs of $25 million or more unless as otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in theThe evaluation and rating must be in the form of an indicative private rating, private credit analysis, or comparable analysis report and include a rating in accordance with the NRSRO's credit rating scales and include a recovery analysis. An updated rating may be required at the Agency's discretion if changes are subsequently made to the Project including changes to any contracts and agreements or changes to loan terms and conditions.

(6) Lender's analysis and credit evaluation that conforms to ยง 4279.215 and must include the information specified in paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The credit reports of the Borrower, its principals, and any parent, Affiliate, or subsidiary as follows:

(A) Unless otherwise determined by the Agency, a personal credit report from an Agency-approved credit reporting company for individuals who are key employees of the Borrower, as determined by the Agency, and for individuals owning 20 percent or more interest in the Borrower or any owner with more than 10 percent ownership interest in the Borrower if there is no owner with more than 20 percent ownership interest in the Borrower, except for when the Borrower is a corporation listed on a major stock exchange; and

(B) Commercial credit reports on the Borrower and any parent, Affiliate, and subsidiary firms.

(ii) Financial and sensitivity review using a financial modeling software program or a banking industry software analysis program with industry standards, when appropriate.

(7) Whether the Loan Note Guarantee is requested prior to construction or after completion of construction of the Project.

(8) The technical assessment must be completed by a qualified independent engineer and must demonstrate that the design, procurement, installation, startup, operation and maintenance of the Project will permit it to operate or perform as specified over its useful life in a reliable and a cost effective manner, and must identify what the useful life of the Project is. The technical assessment must also identify all necessary Project agreements, demonstrate that those agreements will be in place at or before the time of loan closing, and demonstrate that necessary Project equipment and services will be available over the useful life of the Project. The technical assessment must be based upon verifiable data and contain sufficient information and analysis so that a determination can be made on the technical feasibility of achieving the levels of income or production that are projected in the financial statements. All technical information provided must follow the format specified in paragraphs (k)(8)(i) through (ix) of this section. Supporting information may be submitted in other formats. Design drawings and process flow charts are required as exhibits. A discussion of a topic identified in paragraphs (k)(8)(i) through (ix) of this section is not necessary if the topic is not applicable to the specific Project. Questions identified in the Agency's technical review of the Project must be answered to the Agency's satisfaction before the application will be approved. All Projects require the services of an independent, third-party professional engineer.
