
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Applications
####### ยง 4279.281 Conditions precedent to issuance of Loan Note Guarantee.

The Lender must not close the loan until all conditions of the Conditional Commitment are met or can be met. When loan closing plans are established, the Lender must notify the Agency in writing.

(a) Coincident with, or immediately after loan closing, the Lender must provide the following forms and documents to the Agency:

(1) An executed Lender's Agreement;

(2) Form RD 1980-19, "Guaranteed Loan Closing Report," and appropriate guarantee fee;

(3) Copy of the executed Promissory Note(s);

(4) Copy of the executed Loan Agreement;

(5) Copy of the executed settlement statement and updated source and use statement including all Project funding;

(6) Original, executed Forms RD 4279-14, as appropriate;

(7) Borrower's loan closing balance sheet; and

(8) Any other documents required to comply with applicable law or required by the Conditional Commitment or the Agency.

(b) The Lender must provide their certification to each condition specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (16) of this section. The Lender may rely on certain written materials (including but not limited to certifications, evaluations, appraisals, financial statements and other reports) to be provided by the Borrower or other qualified third parties (including, among others, one or more independent engineers, appraisers, accountants, attorneys, consultants or other experts.) If the Lender is unable to provide any of the certifications required under this section, the Lender must provide an explanation satisfactory to the Agency as to why the Lender is unable to provide the certification. The Lender can request the guarantee prior to construction, but must still certify to all conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (16) of this section.

(1) If required, hazard, flood, liability, worker compensation, and life insurance are in effect.

(2) All truth-in-lending and equal credit opportunity requirements have been met.

(3) The loan has been properly closed, and the required security instruments have been properly executed, or will be promptly obtained on any property that cannot be immediately secured under State law.

(4) The Borrower has or will have marketable title to the Collateral, subject to the guaranteed loan and to any other exceptions approved in writing by the Agency.

(5) The loan proceeds have been or will be disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the Conditional Commitment and the application submitted to the Agency.

(6) When required, personal or corporate guarantees have been obtained in accordance with ยง 4279.245.

(7) All requirements of the Conditional Commitment have been met.

(8) Lien priorities are consistent with the requirements of the Conditional Commitment. No claims or liens of laborers, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, materialmen, or other parties have been filed against the Collateral and no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the Collateral when the security instruments are filed.

(9) There has been neither any Material Adverse Change in the Borrower's financial condition nor any other Material Adverse Change in the Borrower, for any reason, during the period of time from the Agency's issuance of the Conditional Commitment to issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee regardless of the cause or causes of the change and whether or not the change or causes of the change were within the Lender's or Borrower's control. The Lender must address any assumptions or reservations in this certification and must address all Material Adverse Changes of the Borrower, any parent, Affiliate, or subsidiary of the Borrower, and guarantors.

(10) Neither the Lender nor any of the Lender's officers has an ownership interest in the Borrower or is an officer or director of the Borrower, and neither the Borrower nor its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a 5 percent ownership interest in the Lender.

(11) The Loan Agreement includes all Borrower compliance measures identified in the Agency's environmental review process for avoiding or reducing adverse environmental impacts of the Project's construction or operation.

(12) For loans exceeding $150,000, the Lender has certified its compliance with the Anti-Lobby Act (18 U.S.C. 1913). Also, if any funds have been, or will be, paid to any Person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to guarantee a loan, the Lender must completely disclose such lobbying activities in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 1352.

(13) Where applicable, the Lender must certify that the Borrower has obtained:

(i) A legal opinion relative to the title to rights-of-way and easements. Lenders are responsible for ensuring that Borrowers have obtained valid, continuous, and adequate rights-of-way and easements needed for the construction, operation and maintenance of a facility; and

(ii) A title opinion or title insurance showing ownership of the land and all mortgages or other lien defects, restrictions, or encumbrances, if any. It is the responsibility of the Lender to ensure that the Borrower has obtained and recorded such releases, consents, or subordinations to such property rights from holders of outstanding liens or other instruments as may be necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of the facility and to provide the required security. For example, when a site is for utility-type facilities (such as a gas distribution system) and the Lender and Borrower are able to obtain only a right-of-way or easement on such site rather than a fee simple title, such a title opinion must be provided.

(14) Each Borrower shall certify to the Lender that all laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction work financed in whole or in part with guaranteed loan funds under this subpart shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 3141 through 3144, 3146, and 3147. Awards under this subpart are further subject to the relevant regulations contained in Title 29 of the CFR.

(15) The Lender certifies that it has reviewed all contract documents and verified compliance with 40 U.S.C. 3141 through 3144, 3146, and 3147 and Title 29 of the CFR. The Lender will certify that the same process will be completed for all future contracts and any changes to existing contracts.

(16) The Lender certifies that the proposed facility complies with all Federal, State, and local laws and regulatory rules that are in existence and that affect the Project, the Borrower, or Lender activities.

(c) The Agency may, at its discretion, request copies of loan documents for its file.

(d) When the Agency is satisfied that all conditions for the guarantee have been met, the Agency will issue the Loan Note Guarantee(s) and the documents identified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate.
