
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Applications
####### ยง 4279.278 Loan approval and obligating funds.

(a) Applications for loan guarantees may be approved as their Phase 2 applications are completed and approved. If an application has been selected for phase 2, but has not been approved because additional information is needed, the Agency will notify, in writing, the Lender of what information is needed, including a timeframe for the Lender to provide the information. If the Lender does not provide the information within the specified timeframe, the Agency will remove the application from further consideration and will so notify the Lender in writing.

(b) Upon approval of a loan guarantee application, the Agency will issue a Conditional Commitment to the Lender containing conditions under which a Loan Note Guarantee will be issued. The Agency will not issue a Conditional Commitment until the Agency has satisfactorily completed a Civil Rights Impact Analysis. The Conditional Commitment becomes null and void unless the conditions are accepted by the Lender and Borrower within 60 days from the date of issuance by USDA. If the conditions are not met or the Loan Note Guarantee is not issued by the Conditional Commitment expiration date, the Agency may extend the Conditional Commitment expiration date when requested by the Lender and only if there has been no Material Adverse Change in the Borrower's or Borrowers' financial condition since issuance of the Conditional Commitment.

(c) The Lender and Borrower may request changes to the Conditional Commitment. The Agency may negotiate with the Lender and the Borrower regarding any proposed changes to the Conditional Commitment. Any changes to the Conditional Commitment must be documented by written amendment to the Conditional Commitment. The changes must be for Good Cause and the Agency may deny, solely at is discretion, changes to the Conditional Commitment even if the change is otherwise in compliance with this subpart.

(d) The Borrower must comply with all Federal requirements then in effect for receiving Federal assistance.
