
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4279 - GUARANTEED LOANMAKING
##### Subpart C - Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans
###### Applications
####### ยง 4279.290 Requirements after Project construction.

Once the Project has been constructed, the Lender must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) Provide the Agency annual reports from the Borrower commencing the first full calendar year following the year in which Project construction was completed and continuing for the life of the guaranteed loan. The Borrower's reports will include, but not be limited to, the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8), as applicable, of this section.

(1) The actual amount of Advanced Biofuels, Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, and Byproducts produced.

(2) If applicable, documentation that identified health or sanitation problems have been solved.

(3) A summary of the cost of operating and maintaining the facility.

(4) A description of any maintenance or operational problems associated with the facility.

(5) Certification that the Project is and has been in compliance with all applicable State and Federal environmental laws and regulations.

(6) The number of jobs created.

(7) A description of the status of the Project's feedstock including, but not limited to, the feedstock being used, outstanding feedstock contracts, feedstock changes and interruptions, and quality of the feedstock.

(8) The results of the annual inspections conducted under paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) For the life of the guaranteed loan, conduct annual inspections.
