
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart A - Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Programs
###### ยง 4280.36 Other laws that contain compliance requirements for these Programs.
####### Civil rights compliance.

(c)Recipients of Grants must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. This includes collection and maintenance of data on the race, sex, and national origin of the recipient's membership/ownership and employees. These data must be available to conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR part 1901 subpart E, ยง 1901.204. Initial compliance reviews will be conducted with the Intermediary when Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement," is signed. For each loan or Grant an Intermediary receives, a new Form RD 400-4 must be completed. Each Ultimate Recipient must go through the same pre-award compliance review process and must also sign Form RD 400-4. For loans and Grants, a pre-award review is required before loan or Grant approval or any disbursement of funds. For Intermediaries, a post-award compliance review is required 90 days after closing the loan or Grant. This review is not required for Ultimate Recipients. Subsequent compliance reviews will be conducted 3 years from the date the post-award compliance review is completed for Intermediaries and 3 years from the date the pre-award compliance review is completed for Ultimate Recipients. Where Grant funds are used for a Revolving Loan Fund, compliance reviews are required for the Intermediaries for as long as the Fund is in operation. For Ultimate Recipients, compliance reviews are conducted until the loan is repaid to the Fund.
