
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.115 RES and EEI grant funding.
######## Eligible Project Costs.

(c)Eligible project costs are only those costs incurred after a complete application has been received by the Agency and are associated with the items identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section. Each item identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section is only an eligible project cost if it is directly related to and its use and purpose is limited to the RES or EEI.

(1) Purchase and installation of new or refurbished equipment.

(2) Construction, retrofitting, replacement, and improvements.

(3) EEI identified by vendor/installer certification or in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit.

(4) Fees for construction permits and licenses and fees required by an interconnection agreement.

(5) Professional service fees related to the project for qualified consultants, contractors, installers, and other third-party services.

(6) For an eligible RES in which a residence is closely associated with the rural small business or agricultural operation the installation of a second meter to separate the residence from the portion of the project that benefits the rural small business or agricultural operation, as applicable.
