
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.118 Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $200,000 and greater.
######## Forms and certifications.

(a)Each application must contain the forms and certifications specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10), as applicable, of this section, except paragraph (a)(5) is optional.

(1) Form RD 4280-3C, "Application for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvement Projects Total Project Costs of $200,000 or Greater".

(2) Form SF-424, "Application for Federal Assistance."

(3) Form SF-424C, "Budget Information-Construction Programs."

(4) Form SF-424D, "Assurances-Construction Programs."

(5) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender of the applicant. Identify if the borrower is a veteran. This information is optional and is not required for a complete application but may be used by the Agency to award priority points.

(6) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. The applicant should contact the Agency to determine what documentation is required to be provided.

(7) The applicant must identify whether or not the applicant has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, the applicant must identify each Agency employee with whom the applicant has a known relationship.

(8) Certification that the applicant is a legal entity in good standing (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe(s) where the applicant has a place of business.

(9) Certification by the applicant that the equipment required for the project is available, can be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule, and will be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements. This would not be applicable when equipment is not part of the project.

(10) Certification by the applicant that the project will be constructed in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards.
