
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.119 Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
######## Criteria for submitting applications for projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.

(a)In order to submit an application under this section, each of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section must be met.

(1) The applicant must be eligible in accordance with ยง 4280.112.

(2) The project must be eligible in accordance with ยง 4280.113.

(3) Total project costs must be less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.

(4) Construction planning and performing development must be performed in compliance with paragraph (c) of this section. The applicant or the applicant's prime contractor assumes all risks and responsibilities of project development.

(5) The applicant or the applicant's prime contractor is responsible for all interim financing, including during construction.

(6) The applicant agrees not to request reimbursement from funds obligated under this program until after project completion and is operating in accordance with the information provided in the application for the project.

(7) The applicant must maintain insurance as required under ยง 4280.123(b), except business interruption insurance is not required.
