
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.118 Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $200,000 and greater.
######## e.g.,,e.g.,,e.g.,

(3) Indicate if the proposed project will have a positive effect on resource conservation (water, soil, forest), public health (potable water, air quality), and the environment (compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) renewable fuel standard(s), greenhouse gases, emissions, particulate matter).

(4) Identify the amount of funds and the source(s) the applicant is proposing to use for the project. Provide written commitments for funds at the time the application is submitted to receive points under this scoring criterion.

(i) If financial resources come from the applicant, documentation may include bank statements that demonstrates availability of funds.

(ii) If a third party is providing financial assistance, the applicant must submit a commitment letter signed by an authorized official of the third party. The letter must be specific to the project and must identify the dollar amount and any applicable rates and terms. If the third-party commitment is a loan, the commitment must be firm; a letter-of-intent or pre-qualification letter subject to underwriting requirements or contingencies are not acceptable. An acceptable condition may be based on the receipt of the REAP grant or an appraisal.
