
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.120 Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less.
######## Forms and certifications.

(1)Each application must contain the forms and certifications specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (x), as applicable, of this section except that paragraph (b)(1)(v) is optional.

(i) Form RD 4280-3A, "Application for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvement Projects Total Project Costs of $80,000 or Less".

(ii) Form SF-424, "Application for Federal Assistance".

(iii) Form SF-424C, "Budget Information for Construction Programs".

(iv) Form SF-424D, "Assurances for Construction Programs".

(v) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender of the applicant. Identify if the borrower is a veteran. This information is optional and is not required for a complete application but may be used by the Agency to award priority points.

(vi) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. The applicant should contact the Agency to determine what documentation is required to be provided.

(vii) Certification by the applicant that:

(A) The applicant meets each of the applicant eligibility criteria found in ยง 4280.112. The Agency reserves the right to request supporting documentation to verify applicant eligibility;

(B) The proposed project meets each of the project eligibility requirements found in ยง 4280.113;

(C) The design, engineering, testing, and monitoring will be sufficient to demonstrate that the proposed project will meet its intended purpose;

(D) The equipment required for the project is available, can be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule, and will be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements. This would not be applicable when equipment is not part of the project;

(E) The project will be constructed in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards;

(F) The applicant meets the criteria for submitting an application for projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less;

(G) The applicant will abide by the open and free competition requirements in compliance with ยง 4280.125(a)(1); and

(H) For bioenergy projects, any and all woody biomass feedstock from National Forest System land or public lands cannot be otherwise used as a higher value wood-based product.

(viii) State whether the applicant has received any grants and/or guaranteed loans under this subpart, or any guaranteed loans under 7 CFR part 5001. If the applicant has, identify each such grant and/or loan and describe the progress the applicant has made on each project for which the grant and/or loan was received, including projected schedules and actual completion dates.

(ix) The applicant must identify whether or not the applicant has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, the applicant must identify each Agency employee with whom the applicant has a known relationship.

(x) The applicant is a legal entity in good standing (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe where the applicant has a place of business.
