
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.119 Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
######## Payment process for applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.

(d)

(1) Upon completion of the project, the grantee must submit to the Agency a copy of the contractor's certification of final completion for the project and a statement that the grantee accepts the work completed. At its discretion, the Agency may require the applicant to have an inspector certify that the project is constructed and installed correctly.

(2) The RES or EEI project must be constructed, installed, and operating as described in the technical report prior to disbursement of funds. For RES, the system must be operating at the steady state operating level described in the technical report for a period of not less than 30 days, unless this requirement is modified by the Agency, prior to disbursement of funds. Any modification to the 30-day steady state operating level requirement will be based on the Agency's review of the technical report and will be incorporated into the Letter of Conditions.

(3) Prior to making payment, the Agency will be provided with Form RD 1924-9, "Certificate of Contractor's Release," and Form RD 1924-10, "Release by Claimants," or similar forms, executed by all persons who furnished materials or labor in connection with the contract.
