
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.121 Scoring RES and EEI grant applications.
######## RES.

(i)The quantity of energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested will be determined by dividing the projected total annual energy generated or replaced by the RES or RES retrofit (minus energy for residential use), which will be converted to BTUs, by the grant dollars requested. Points will be awarded based on the annual amount of energy generated or replaced (minus energy for residential use) per grant dollar requested for the proposed RES project. In cases where there are ineligible pre-application costs, the entire quantity of energy produced by the system is utilized for this scoring criteria as long as the use of energy produced is eligible. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined using paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section. If the annual amount of energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested is:

(A) 50,000 BTUs average annual energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested or higher, 10 points will be awarded; or

(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs annual energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested, points will be awarded according to the results of taking the energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested/50,000 x 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.
