
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
####### ยง 4280.122 Selecting RES and EEI grant applications for award.
######## RES and EEI grant applications requesting $20,000 or less.

(b)Complete RES and EEI grant applications, including combination grant and guaranteed loan requests, requesting $20,000 or less are eligible to compete in up to five competitions-two State competitions and a National set-aside competition for grants of $20,000 or less, as well as the two competitions referenced in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) For complete RES and EEI grant applications for grants requesting $20,000 or less, there will be two State competitions each Federal fiscal year. Complete applications for $20,000 or less that are received by the Agency by 4:30 p.m. local time on October 31 of the Federal fiscal year will be competed against each other. Complete applications for $20,000 or less that are received by the Agency by 4:30 p.m. local time on March 31 of the Federal fiscal year and any applications for $20,000 or less that were not ready to compete or were not funded from the prior competition, will be competed against each other. If either October 31 or March 31 falls on a weekend or a federally observed holiday, the next Federal business day will be considered the last day for receipt of a complete application. Complete applications received after 4:30 p.m. local time on March 31, regardless of the postmark on the application, will be processed in the subsequent fiscal year.

(2) All eligible RES and EEI grant applications requesting $20,000 or less that remain unfunded after completion of the State competition for applications received by March 31 will be competed in the National competition.
