
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Energy Audit and Renewable Energy Development Assistance Grants
####### ยง 4280.149 Applicant eligibility.

To be eligible for an EA grant or a REDA grant under this subpart, the applicant must meet each of the criteria, as applicable, specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. The Agency will determine an applicant's eligibility.

(a) The applicant must be one of the following:

(1) A unit of State, Tribal, or local government;

(2) A land-grant college or university, or other institution of higher education;

(3) A rural electric cooperative;

(4) A public power entity;

(5) An instrumentality of a State, Tribal, or local government; or

(6) A council, as defined under the Resource Conservation and Development Program, at 16 U.S. C. 3451.

(b) The applicant must have sufficient capacity to perform the EA or REDA activities proposed in the application to ensure success. The Agency will make this assessment based on the information provided in the application.

(c) The applicant must have the legal authority necessary to apply for and carry out the purpose of the grant.

(d) The applicant must:

(1) Be registered in the SAM prior to submitting an application;

(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times until final fund disbursement has been made.

(3) Provide its UEI number in each application it submits to the Agency. Generally, the UEI number is included on SF-424.
