
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Combined Funding for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements
####### § 4280.137 Combined grant and guaranteed loan funding requirements.
######## Other provisions.

(j)In addition to the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, the combined funding request is subject to the other requirements specified in this subpart, including, but not limited to, processing and servicing requirements, as applicable, as described in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) All other provisions of §§ 4280.101 through 4280.111 apply to the grant portion of the combined funding request and all other provisions as applicable of 7 CFR parts 5001.1 through 5001.10 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request.

(2) All other provisions of §§ 4280.112 through 4280.124 apply to the grant portion of the combined funding request and § 4280.125 applies if the project for which the grant is sought has a total project cost of $200,000 and greater.

(3) All guarantee loan and grant combination applications that are ranked, but not funded, will be processed in accordance with provisions found in § 4280.122(d), (e), and (f).

(4) Applicants whose combination applications are approved for funding must utilize both the loan and the grant. The guaranteed loan will be closed prior to grant funds being disbursed. The Agency reserves the right to reduce the total loan guarantee and grant award, as appropriate, if construction costs are less than projected or if funding sources differ from those provided in the application.

(5) Ineligible project provisions of §§ 5001.115 and 5001.119, and ineligible use of funds provision of § 5001.122 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request. Borrower ineligibility provisions of § 5001.127 are also applicable.
