
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Energy Audit and Renewable Energy Development Assistance Grants
####### ยง 4280.150 Project eligibility.

To be eligible for an EA or a REDA grant, the grant funds for a project must be used by the grantee to assist agricultural producers or rural small businesses in one of the purposes specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and must also comply with paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.

(a) Conducting and promoting energy audits as defined in 4280.103.

(b) Conducting and promoting REDA by providing to agricultural producers and rural small businesses recommendations and information on how to improve the energy efficiency of the operations and to use renewable energy technologies and resources in their operations.

(c) EA and REDA can be provided only to a project located in a rural area unless the grantee of such project is an agricultural producer. If the project is owned by an agricultural producer, the project for which such services are being provided may be located in either a rural or non-rural area and the EA or REDA can only be for an EEI or RES on components that support the production, processing, vertical integration, or marketing of agricultural products. If the agricultural producer's operation is in a non-rural area, then the Energy Audit or REDA can only be for RES or EEI components of the business operation that are directly related to and their use and purpose is limited to the agricultural production operation, such as vertically integrated operations, and are part of and co-located with the agricultural production operation.

(d) The EA or REDA must be provided to a recipient in a State.

(e) The applicant must have a place of business in a State.

(f) The applicant is cautioned against taking any actions or incurring any obligations prior to the Agency completing the environmental review that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered or that would have an adverse effect on the environment, such as the initiation of construction. If the applicant takes any such actions or incurs any such obligations, it could result in project ineligibility.
