
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Energy Audit and Renewable Energy Development Assistance Grants
####### ยง 4280.153 EA and REDA grant applications - content.

(a) Unless otherwise specified in anotice, applicants may only submit one EA grant application and one REDA grant application each Federal fiscal year. No combination (EA and REDA) applications will be accepted.

(b) Applicants must submit complete applications consisting of the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section, except that paragraph (b)(3), is optional. Applications will be evaluated based only on information submitted by the applicant in the application.

(1) Form SF-424.

(2) Form SF-424A, "Budget Information-Non Construction Programs."

(3) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender of the applicant. This information is optional and is not required for a complete application.

(4) Certification that the applicant is a legal entity in good standing (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe where the applicant has a place of business.

(5) The applicant must identify whether or not the applicant has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, the applicant must identify each Agency employee with whom the applicant has a known relationship.

(6) A proposed scope of work to include the following items:

(i) A brief summary including a project title describing the proposed project;

(ii) Goals of the proposed project;

(iii) Geographic scope or service area of the proposed project and the method and rationale used to select the service area;

(iv) Identification of the specific needs for the service area and the target audience to be served. The number of agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses to be served must be identified including name and contact information, if available, as well as the method and rationale used to select the agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses;

(v) Timeline describing the proposed tasks to be accomplished and the schedule for implementation of each task. Include whether organizational staff, consultants, or contractors will be used to perform each task. If a project is located in multiple States, resources must be sufficient to complete all projects;

(vi) Marketing strategies to include a discussion on how the applicant will be marketing and providing outreach activities to the proposed service area ensuring that agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses are served;

(vii) Applicant's experience as follows:

(A) If applying for a REDA grant, the applicant's experience in completing similar REDA activities, such as renewable energy site assessments and renewable energy technical assistance provided directly to agricultural producers and rural small businesses, including the number of similar projects the applicant has performed and the number of years the applicant has been performing a similar service.

(B) If applying for an EA grant, the number of energy audits the applicant has completed and the number of years the applicant has been performing those services;

(C) For all applicants, the amount of experience in administering EA, REDA, or similar activities as applicable to the purpose of the proposed project. Provide discussion if the applicant has any existing programs that can demonstrate the achievement of energy savings or energy generation with the agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses the applicant has served. If the applicant has received one or more awards within the last 5 years in recognition of its renewable energy, energy savings, or energy-based technical assistance, please describe the achievement;

(viii) Itemized budget; and

(ix) Identify the amount of matching funds and other funds and the source(s) the applicant is proposing to use for the project. Provide written commitments for matching funds and other funds at the time the application is submitted.

(A) If financial resources come from the applicant, documentation may include a bank statement that demonstrates availability of funds.

(B) If a third party is providing financial assistance to the project, the applicant must submit a commitment letter signed by an authorized official of the third party. The letter must be specific to the project, identify the dollar amount being provided and any applicable rates and terms.
