
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### ยง 4280.102 Organization of subpart.

(a) Sections 4280.103 through 4280.111 discuss definitions; exception authority; review or appeal rights; conflict of interest; USDA Departmental Regulations; other applicable laws; ineligible applicants, grantees, and owners; general applicant, application, and funding provisions; and notifications, which are applicable to all of the funding programs under this subpart.

(b) Sections 4280.112 through 4280.125 discuss the requirements specific to RES and EEI grants. Sections 4280.112 and 4280.113 discuss, respectively, applicant and project eligibility. Section 4280.114 addresses ineligible projects. Section 4280.115 addresses funding provisions for these grants. Sections 4280.116 through 4280.120 address grant application content, technical merit determination, and required documentation. Sections 4280.121 through 4280.124 address the scoring, selection, awarding and administering, and servicing of these grant applications. Section 4280.125 addresses construction planning and development.

(c) Section 4280.137 presents the process by which the Agency will make combined loan guarantee and grant funding available for RES and EEI projects.

(d) Sections 4280.149 through 4280.159 present the process by which the Agency will make EA and REDA grant funding available. These sections cover applicant and project eligibility, grant funding, application content, evaluation, scoring, selection, awarding and administering, and servicing.

(e) Appendices A through C cover technical report requirements. Appendix A applies to EEI projects; Appendix B applies to RES projects with Total Project Costs of Less Than $200,000, but more than $80,000; and Appendix C applies to RES projects with Total Project Costs $200,000 and Greater. Appendices A and B do not apply to RES and EEI projects with Total Project Costs of $80,000 or less, respectively. Instead, technical report requirements for these projects are found in ยง 4280.120.

(f) Appendix D covers contents of feasibility study.
