
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### ยง 4280.103 Definitions.
####### Simple payback.

The estimated simple payback of a project funded under this part as calculated using paragraphs (1) or (2), as applicable, of this definition.

(1) EEI projects simple payback = (total project costs) &#xF7; (dollar value of energy saved).

(i) Energy saved will be determined by subtracting the projected energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition) to be consumed from the historical energy consumed (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition), and converting the result to a monetary value using a constant value or price of energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(C) of this definition).

(A) Actual energy used in the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, prior to the EEI project, must be based on the actual average annual total energy used in British thermal units (BTU) over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation. Attach utility bills to document applicant entity's historical energy consumption quantity.

(B) Projected energy use if the proposed EEI project had been in place for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for the same time period used to determine that actual energy use under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition.

(C) Value or price of energy must be the actual average price paid over the same time period used to calculate the actual energy used under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition. When calculating the actual average price of energy, only include energy charges directly reduced by the unit of energy being replaced or saved. Attach utility bills to document applicant entity's average price of energy.

(ii) The EEI projects simple payback calculation does not allow applicants to monetize EEI benefits other than the dollar amount of the energy savings the agricultural producer or rural small business realizes as a result of the improvement.

(2) RES projects simple payback = (total project costs) &#xF7; (dollar value of energy units replaced, credited, sold, or used and fair market value of byproducts as applicable in a typical year).

(i) Value of energy replaced will be calculated based on the applicant entity's historical energy consumption with actual average price paid for the energy replaced, following the methodology outlined in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition. Attach utility bills to document applicant entity's historical energy consumption quantity and actual average price of energy.

(ii) Value of energy credited or sold will be calculated based on the amount of energy units to be credited or sold at the proposed rate per unit, as documented in utility net metering or crediting policies and/or a power purchase agreement. Attach utility net metering or crediting policies and/or a power purchase agreement to document energy quantity and proposed rate for energy credited or sold.

(iii) If proposed energy will be used in a new facility, value of energy used will be calculated based on the amount of energy units to be used at the documented price per unit of conventional fuel alternative. Attach documentation of market price per unit of conventional fuel alternative.

(iv) Value of byproducts produced by and used in the project or related enterprises should be documented at the fair market value to be received for the byproducts in a typical year. Attach documentation of market value price to be received for byproducts and documentation to support byproduct sales or direct use.

(v) The RES projects simple payback calculation does not include any one-time benefits such as but not limited to construction and investment-related benefits, nor credits which do not provide annual income to the project, such as tax credits.
