
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### ยง 4280.103 Definitions.
####### Small business

means,

(1) An entity or utility, as applicable, as further defined in subparagraphs (i) through (iv) and paragraph (2) of this definition. With the exception of the entities identified in this paragraph, all other non-profit entities are not small businesses for the purposes of REAP program eligibility:

(i) A private for-profit entity, including a sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation;

(ii) A cooperative (including a cooperative qualified under section 501(c)(12) of the Internal Revenue Code);

(iii) An electric utility (including a Tribal or governmental electric utility) that provides service to rural consumers and operates independent of direct government control; or

(iv) A Tribal corporation or other Tribal business entities that are chartered under Section 17 of the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 477) or have similar structures and relationships with their Tribal governments and are acceptable to the Agency. The Agency will determine the small business status of such Tribal entity without regard to the resources of the Tribal government; and

(2) An entity that meets Small Business Administration size standards in accordance with 13 CFR part 121 and criteria of ยง 121.301 as applicable to financial assistance programs, including (i) or (ii) below. The size of the concern alone and the size of the concern combined with other entity(ies) it controls or entity(ies) it is controlled by, must not exceed the size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which the concern alone or the concern and its controlling entity(ies), whichever is higher, is primarily engaged.

(i) The concern's tangible net worth is not in excess of $15 million and average net income (excluding carry-over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal years is not in excess of $5.0 million; or

(ii) The size of the concern does not exceed the Small Business Administration (SBA) size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which it is primarily engaged, as measured by number of employees or annual receipts. Industry size standard designations to be utilized are listed in the Small Business Administration's (SBA) table of size standards found in 13 CFR part 121.201. Number of employees and annuals receipts are calculated as follows:

(A) Number of employees is calculated as the average number of all individuals employed by a concern on a full-time, part-time, or other basis, based upon numbers of employees for each of the pay periods for the preceding completed 12 calendar months. If a concern has not been in business for 12 months, the average number of employees is used for each of the pay periods during which it has been in business.

(B) Annual receipts are calculated as average total income plus cost of goods sold for the for the five most recent years. If a concern has been in operation for less than 60 months, average annual receipts for as long as the concern has been in operation are used.
