
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart L - Procedures Related to Administrative Hearings Under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986
##### ยง 1.346 Limitation.
###### ยง 1.420 Consent recommendation.
####### et seq.

Any time before the Judge files the decision, the parties of record may enter a consent recommendation. Such consent recommendation shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk, signed by the parties with appropriate space for signature by the Judge. The consent recommendation shall contain an admission of the jurisdictional facts, the factual and legal basis for the recommended sourcing area, the consent to the issuance of the recommended decision as the final decision of the agency without further procedure and such other admissions or statements as may be recommended by the parties. The Judge shall review the recommendation to determine whether such recommendation conforms with the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 620,), 36 CFR 223.190, 36 CFR 223.191(e) and these procedures. If the recommendation conforms to the aforementioned Act, regulations, and procedures, the Judge may enter such decision without further procedure, unless an error is apparent on the face of the document. If the Judge enters the decision, such decision shall have the same force and effect as a decision issued after full hearing and shall become final upon issuance to become effective in accordance with the terms of the decision.
