
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart B - Rural Energy for America Program General
###### Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 4280 - Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of $200,000 and Greater
####### Anaerobic Digester Project/Biogas.,e.g.,,e.g.,,e.g.,

6.Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the substrates used as digester inputs, including animal wastes or other Renewable Biomass in terms of type, quantity, seasonality, and frequency of collection. Describe any special handling of feedstock that may be necessary. Describe the process for determining the feedstock resource. Provide either tabular values or laboratory analysis of representative samples that include biodegradability studies to produce gas production estimates for the project on daily, monthly, and seasonal basis. If an anerobic digester project, identify the type of operation (dairy, swine, layer, etc.), along with breed, herd population size and demographics, and the type of waste collection method and frequency information available. For the biogas produced, identify the type of digester (mixed, plug-flow, attached film, covered lagoon, etc.), if applicable, or the method of capture (landfill, sewage waste treatment, etc.) and treatment. Identify the system designer and determine the digester design assumptions such as the number and type of animals, the bedding type and estimated annual quantity used, the manure and wastewater volumes, and the treatment of digester effluent (none, solids separation by screening, etc. with details including use or method of disposal).
