
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### § 4280.301 Purpose and scope.

(a) This subpart contains the policies and procedures by which the Agency will administer the Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program (RMAP). The purpose of the Program is to support the development and ongoing success of rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises. To accomplish this purpose, the Program will make direct loans and provide grants to selected Microenterprise Development Organizations. Selected Microenterprise Development Organization will use the funds to:

(1) Provide microloans to rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises;

(2) Provide business-based training and technical assistance to rural microborrowers and potential microborrowers as an essential part of the microlending process;

(3) Perform other such activities as deemed appropriate by the Secretary to ensure the development and ongoing success of rural microenterprises.

(b) The Agency will make direct loans to microlenders for the purpose of providing fixed interest rate microloans to rural microentrepreneurs for business startup and for growing microenterprises in compliance with §§ 4280.311 and 4280.312. Eligible microlenders will also be eligible to receive microlender technical assistance grants to provide technical assistance and training to microenterprises that have received or are seeking a microloan under this program in compliance with § 4280.313.

(c) To allow for extended opportunities for technical assistance and training, the Agency will make technical assistance-only grants to Microenterprise Development Organizations that have sources of funding other than program funds for making or facilitating microloans.
