
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### ยง 4280.311 Loan provisions for Agency loans to microlenders.
####### Loan terms and conditions for microlenders.

(e)Program loans will be made to microlenders under the following terms and conditions:

(1) Funds received from the Agency and any non-Federal share will be deposited into an account that will be the RMRF account and shall not be mingled with other MDO funds. The Agency will hold first lien position on the RMRF account, the LLRF account, and all notes receivable from microloans using Agency funds.

(2) The RMRF account will be used to make fixed-rate microloans, accept repayments from microborrowers and reimbursements from the LLRF, to repay the Agency loan and, with the advance written approval of the Agency, to supplement the LLRF with interest or fee earnings from the RMRF.

(3) The term of an Agency loan made to a microlender will be 20 years. If requested by the applicant MDO, a shorter term may be agreed upon by the microlender and the Agency. If a repayment workout is required after loan closing, the term of the loan may not exceed a 20-year period from the loan origination date.

(4) Each RMAP loan made to a microlender during its first five years of participation in the program will bear an interest rate of 2 percent for the life of the loan. After the fifth year of an MDO's continuous and satisfactory participation in the program, each new loan made to the microlender will bear interest at a rate of 1 percent. The interest rate on previous loans will remain unchanged. Satisfactory participation requires a loan default rate of 5 percent or less, a pattern of delinquencies of 10 percent or less in the MDO's RMRF account(s), and timely submission of reports to the Agency as required by ยง 4280.311(h).

(5) Each loan made to a microlender will automatically receive a 2-year deferral during which time no repayment to the Agency will be required. The deferral period will begin on the day the Agency's loan to the microlender is closed. During the initial 2-year deferral period, each loan to a microlender will accrue interest only on funds disbursed by the Agency. Interest accrued during the 2-year deferral period will be capitalized to the loan's principal balance during the 24th month of the loan unless the microlender chooses to make a voluntary payment of the accrued interest. The required monthly payments to amortize the loan after the 2-year deferral period will be based on the full loan amount plus capitalized interest, not just the amount disbursed to the microlender, even in cases where the Agency's loan has not been fully advanced to the microlender.

(6) Except in the case of liquidation or early repayment, loans to microlenders must fully amortize over the life of the loan. The first payment will be due to the Agency on the last day of the 24th month of the life of the loan.

(7) The microlender is responsible for full repayment of its loan to the Agency regardless of the performance of its microloan portfolio. Partial or full repayment of debt to the Agency under the program may be made at any time, including during the deferral period, without any pre-payment penalties being assessed.

(8) The Agency may call the entire loan due and payable prior to the end of the full term due to any non-performance, delinquency, or default on the loan.

(9) The loan closing between the microlender and the Agency should take place within 90 days from the execution of Form RD 1940-1, "Request for Obligation of Funds." Microlenders that are unable to close the loan within 90 days of obligation must provide justification for the delay or loan funds will be forfeited through a de-obligation of funds.

(10) Microlenders will be eligible to receive a disbursement of up to 25 percent of the total loan amount at the time of loan closing. Funds disbursed at loan closing exceeding 25 percent of the loan amount will only be made if and to the extent that the MDO has made a funding commitment to an eligible microborrower that will be closed within 60 days from the Agency loan date. Interest will accrue on all funds disbursed to the microlender beginning on the date of disbursement.

(11) Microlenders may request in writing and receive additional loan disbursements until the full amount of the loan to the microlender is disbursed, or until the end of the 36th month of the loan, whichever occurs first. Letters of request for disbursement should be made not more often than quarterly and must be accompanied by a description of the microlender's anticipated need. Such description will indicate the amount and number of microloans anticipated to be made with the loan disbursement.

(12) Funds not disbursed to the microlender by the end of the 36th month of the loan from the Agency will be de-obligated and no longer available for disbursement to the MDO. In such cases where loan funds are deobligated, the Agency will establish a revised payment schedule to fully amortize the loan balance by its maturity date.

(13) In the event a microlender fails to meet its payment or reporting obligations to the Agency, the Agency may pursue any combination of the following:

(i) Take possession of the RMRF and/or any microloans outstanding, and/or the LLRF;

(ii) Call the loan due and payable in full; and/or

(iii) Enter into a workout agreement acceptable to the Agency, which may or may not include transfer or sale of the portfolio to another microlender (whether or not funded under the program) deemed acceptable to the Agency.

(14) If a microlender makes a withdrawal from the RMRF for any purpose other than to make a microloan, repay the Agency, or, with advance written approval, transfer an appropriate amount of non-Federal funds to the LLRF, the Agency may take actions including the restriction of further access to withdrawals from the account by the microlender or declaring the loan in default due to improper use of loan funds.
