
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### ยง 4280.313 Grant provisions.
####### Administrative expenses.

(d)Not more than 10 percent of a grant received by an MDO for a Federal FY may be used to pay administrative expenses. Microlenders must annually submit a budget of proposed administrative expenses for Agency approval. The Agency has the right to deny the requested amount, even if it is at 10 percent or less, and to fund administrative expenses at a lower level.

(1) Administrative expenses should be kept to a minimum. As such, the applicant MDO is required in the application materials to provide an administrative budget plan indicating the amount of funding it will need for administrative purposes. Applicants will be scored accordingly, with those using less than 10 percent of the grant funds for administrative purposes being scored higher than those using 10 percent of the grant funds for administrative purposes.

(2) While operating the program, the selected grantee will be expected to adhere to the estimates it provides in its application and annual budget. If for any reason the MDO cannot meet those expectations, it must contact the Agency in writing with justification to request a budget adjustment. Budget adjustments will be considered only if the adjustment result for administrative expenses is within the 10 percent limitation.

(3) Microlenders that exceed 10 percent for administrative expenses will be considered in performance default and may be subject to Agency actions including the forfeiting of funds.
