
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### ยง 4280.313 Grant provisions.
####### Microlender grants.

(a)The Agency shall make microlender TA grants to microlenders to assist them in providing marketing, management, and other TA to rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises that have received or are seeking one or more microloans from the microlender. The capacity of a microlender to provide an integrated program of microlending and TA will be evaluated during the scoring process with their loan application and then annually in determining the amount of annual grant funds. An eligible MDO selected to be a microlender will be eligible to receive a microlending TA grant if it receives funding to provide microloans under this program. Microlender applicants for loan funding to establish or replenish a revolving loan fund originally capitalized under this program, may simultaneously apply for TA grant funds in an amount not to exceed 25 percent of the requested loan amount.

(1) Technical assistance grants to microlenders will be awarded annually on a non-competitive basis in an amount based on the MDO's outstanding loan balance as of June 30, subject to satisfactory program performance of the microlender and the availability of funds. Satisfactory performance includes the timely payment of program loan(s) and the submission of periodic reports to the Agency. Annual TA grants to a microlender, subject to the availability of funds, will be made in an amount to replenish the microlender's TA fund to an amount equal to 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of loans made by the microlender to ultimate recipients unless otherwise published in an annual program funding notice. If available grant funds are not sufficient to fully replenish each microlender's TA funds to 20 percent of their outstanding loan balance, the available funds will be distributed proportionately based on the percentage of available funds to the total amount of annual TA grant funds requested.

(2) Any grant dollars obligated but not spent by the microlender from their initial or subsequent grants will be subtracted from the subsequent year's grant eligibility calculation to ensure that obligations cover only microloans made and active and that the MDO's total grant funds available for TA do not exceed the established 20 percent threshold.

(3) The microlender will agree to use TA grant funds exclusively for providing TA assistance and training to eligible microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, with the exception that up to 10 percent of the grant funds may be used to cover the microlender's administrative expenses. Grant funds may not be used to make loan payments.
