
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart L - Procedures Related to Administrative Hearings Under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986
##### ยง 1.346 Limitation.
###### ยง 1.421 Prehearing conferences and procedures.
####### Purpose and scope.

(a)(1) Upon motion of a party of record or upon the Judge's own motion, the Judge may direct the parties or their counsel to attend a conference at any reasonable time, prior to or during the course of the hearing, when the Judge finds that the proceeding would be expedited by a prehearing conference. Reasonable notice of the time and place of the conference shall be given. The Judge may order each of the parties to furnish at or subsequent to the conference any or all of the following:

(i) An outline of a party's position;

(ii) The facts upon which the party will rely;

(iii) The legal theories upon which the party will rely;

(iv) Copies of or a list of documents which the party anticipates introducing at the hearing; and

(v) A list of anticipated witnesses who will testify on behalf of the party. At the discretion of the party furnishing such list of witnesses, the names of the witnesses need not be furnished if they are otherwise identified in some meaningful way such as a short statement of the type of evidence they will offer.

(2) The Judge shall not order any of the foregoing procedures that a party can show is inappropriate or unwarranted under the circumstances of the particular determination.

(3) At the conference, the following matters shall be considered:

(i) The simplification of issues;

(ii) The possibility of obtaining stipulations of facts and of the authenticity, accuracy, and admissibility of documents, which will avoid unnecessary proof;

(iii) The limitation of the number of expert or other witnesses;

(iv) Negotiation, compromise, or settlement of issues;

(v) The exchange of copies of proposed exhibits;

(vi) The identification of documents or matters of which official notice may be requested;

(vii) A schedule to be followed by the parties for completion of the actions decided at the conference; and

(viii) Such other matters as may expedite and aid in the disposition of the proceeding.
