
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### ยง 4280.316 Application scoring.
####### Application requirements for all applicants.

(a)All applicants must submit the eligibility and application information described in ยง 4280.315. The maximum points available in this part of the application are 45. In addition to the eligibility information, all applicants will submit:

(1) An organizational chart clearly showing the positions and naming the individuals in those positions. Of particular interest to the Agency are management positions and those positions essential to the operation of microlending and TA programming. Up to 5 points will be awarded based on the completeness of the organizational chart and management experience.

(2) Resumes for each of the individuals shown on the organizational chart and indicated as key to the operation of the activities to be funded under the program. There should be a corresponding resume for each of the key individuals noted and named on the organizational chart. Points will be awarded based on the quality of the resumes and on the ability of the key personnel to administer the program. Up to 5 points will be awarded.

(3) A succession plan to be followed in the event of the departure of personnel key to the operation of the applicant's RMAP activities. Up to 5 points will be awarded.

(4) Information indicating an understanding of microenterprise development concepts. Provide those parts of your policy and procedures manual that deal with the provision of loans, management of loan funds, and provision of TA. Up to 5 points will be awarded.

(5) The applicant's most recent, and two-year's previous, financial statements. Points will be awarded based on the demonstrated ability of the applicant to maintain or grow its fund balance, its ability to manage one or more federal programs, and its capacity to manage multiple funding sources, including restricted and non-restricted funding sources, income, earnings, and expenditures. Up to 10 points will be awarded.

(6) A copy of the applicant's organizational mission statement. The mission statement will be rated based on its relative connectivity to microenterprise development and general economic development and may or may not be a part of a larger statement. Up to 5 points will be awarded.

(7) Information regarding the geographic service area to be served, which must be rural as defined, and include the number of counties or other jurisdictions to be served. Note that the applicant will not be scored on the size of the service area, but on its ability to fully cover the service area as described. Up to 10 points will be awarded.
