
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### ยง 4280.316 Application scoring.
####### e.g.,

(i) Applicants that have used more than one method of training and TA (classroom training, peer-to-peer discussion groups, individual assistance, and distance learning) will be awarded 5 points.

(ii) Applicants that provide success stories to demonstrate the effects of TA on their clients will be awarded points under either of the following paragraphs, but not both:

(A) News stories that highlight businesses made successful as a result of the applicant's TA; 5 points will be awarded.

(B) Internal stories that highlight businesses made successful as a result of TA, 3 points.

(iii) Applicants that provide evidence that they require evaluations by the clients of their training programs will be awarded 3 points. Applicants will provide the total number of evaluations received and the average score from the evaluations received. An additional two points will be awarded if the total evaluation scores are above an average of 3.0 on a five-point scale, with points determined by the client ratings on a declining scale as follows:

(A) Extremely Satisfied, 5 points.

(B) Satisfied, 4 points.

(C) Average, 3 points.

(D) Dissatisfied, 2 points.

(E) Very Unsatisfied, 1 point.

(iv) Applicants that present well-written narrative information regarding their programs and services to be delivered and their outreach efforts within the service area that is clearly and concisely written and is five pages or less will be awarded up to a maximum of 5 points.
