
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### ยง 4280.316 Application scoring.
####### History of provision of TA.

(1)Each applicant's history of provision of TA to microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, and its ability to reach diverse communities, will be scored based on the data specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. The maximum number of points under this criterion is 20.

(i) Provide the total number of rural and non-rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises that received both TA services and resultant microloans for each of the previous three years. Of this total number, provide the percentage of rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises that received both TA services and resultant microloans for each of the previous three years. If the provision of both TA services and resultant microloans to rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises is demonstrated at a rate of:

(A) 75 percent or more, 5 points will be awarded;

(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 3 points will be awarded;

(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 1 point will be awarded.

(ii) Provide the percentage of the total number of rural microentrepreneurs by racial and ethnic minority, disabled, and/or gender that received both microloans and TA services for each of the previous three years. If the demonstrated provision of TA and resultant microloans to these rural microentrepreneurs when compared to the total number of microentrepreneurs assisted, is at a rate of:

(A) 75 percent or more, 10 points will be awarded;

(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 7 points will be awarded;

(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 5 points will be awarded.

(iii) Provide the ratio of TA clients that also received microloans during each of the last three years, rounded to the nearest whole number. If the ratio of clients receiving TA to clients receiving microloans is:

(A) Between 1:1 and 1:5, 5 points will be awarded.

(B) Between 1:6 and 1:8, 3 points will be awarded.

(C) Either 1:9 or 1:10, 1 point will be awarded.
