
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart D - Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
###### ยง 4280.323 Ineligible microloan purposes and uses.

Agency loan funds will not be used for the payment of microlender administrative costs or expenses and microlenders may not make microloans under the program for any of the purposes and uses identified as ineligible in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section.

(a) Construction costs including property demolition, renovation, elimination of walls, or property additions.

(b) The financing of timeshares, apartments, duplexes, or other residential housing.

(c) Assistance that will cause a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest including but not limited to:

(1) Financial assistance to principals, directors, officers, or employees of the microlender, or their close relatives, as defined; or

(2) Financial assistance to any entity which would appear to benefit the microlender or its principals, directors, or employees, or their close relatives, as defined, in any way other than the normal repayment of debt.

(d) Distribution or payment to a microborrower when such will use any portion of the microloan for other than business purposes.

(e) Microloans to a charitable institution not gaining sufficient revenue from business sales or services to support the operation and repay the microloan.

(f) Microloans to a fraternal organization.

(g) Any microloan to an applicant that has an RMAP-funded microloan application pending with another microlender or that has an RMAP-funded microloan outstanding with another microlender that would cause the applicant to owe a combined amount of more than $50,000 to one or more microlenders under the program.

(h) Assistance to USDA Rural Development employees, or their close relatives, as defined.

(i) Microloans for any illegal activity.

(j) Any project that is in violation of either a Federal, State, or local environmental protection law, regulation, or enforceable land use restriction unless the microloan will result in curing or removing the violation.

(k) Loans supporting explicitly religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction or proselytization.

(l) Golf courses, race tracks, or gambling facilities.

(m) Funding of any political or lobbying activities.

(n) Lines of credit.
