
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4280 - LOANS AND GRANTS
##### Subpart E - Rural Business Development Grants
###### General
####### ยง 4280.408 U.S. Department of Agriculture departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements.
######## Environmental requirements.

(d)Actions taken under this subpart must comply with 7 CFR part 1970. Prospective applicants are advised to contact the Agency to determine environmental requirements as soon as practicable after they decide to pursue any form of financial assistance directly or indirectly available through the Agency.

(1) Any required environmental review must be completed by the Agency prior to the Agency obligating any funds.

(2) The applicant will be notified of all specific compliance requirements, including, but not limited to, the publication of public notices, and consultation with State Historic Preservation Offices (or Tribal Historic Preservation Offices where appropriate) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

(3) A site visit by the Agency may be scheduled, if necessary, to determine the scope of the review.

(4) Applications for Technical Assistance or Planning Projects are generally excluded from the environmental review process by 7 CFR 1970.53 provided the assistance is not related to the development of a specific site. However, as further specified in 7 CFR 1970.53, the grantee for a Technical Assistance grant, in the process of providing Technical Assistance, must consider the potential environmental impacts of the recommendations provided to the recipient of the Technical Assistance as requested by the Agency and in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(5) Applicants for grant funds must consider and document within their plans the important environmental factors within the Planning area and the potential environmental impacts of the plan on the Planning area, as well as the alternative Planning strategies that were reviewed.

(6) Whenever an applicant files an application that includes a direct construction Project and a plan, they must have a separate environmental evaluation.
