
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4284 - GRANTS
##### Subpart L - Rural Innovation Stronger Economy (RISE) Grant Program
###### ยง 4284.1103 Definitions.
####### Rural in character

means:

(1) A determination that an area is "rural in character" will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development in compliance with 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(D). The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in this definition. Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a "rural in character" designation by submitting a petition to the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document why the petitioner believes the area is "rural in character" including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Administrator will review its merits and consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within 5 business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The petition will be forwarded to the Under Secretary who will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's website. The Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration. The Under Secretary will make a determination of the appeal in not less than 15 days, but no more than 30 days.

(2) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is "rural in character." A written recommendation should be sent to the Administrator, on behalf of the Under Secretary, that documents how the area meets the statutory requirements and discusses why the State Director believes the area is "rural in character" including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, topography, and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the "rural in character" provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments within 10 business days, unless gubernatorial comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in a local newspaper and the request will be posted on the Agency's website. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.
