
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4285 - COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart A - Federal-State Research on Cooperatives Program
###### ยง 4285.58 How to apply for cooperative agreement funds.
####### Statement of Work.

(4)The application must include a narrative statement describing the nature of the proposed research. The Statement of Work must include at least the following:

(i) Title of the Project. The title of the proposal must be brief, yet represent the major thrust of the project.

(ii) Project Leaders. List the name(s) of the principal investigator(s). Minor collaborators or consultants should be so designated and not listed as principal investigators.

(iii) Need for the Project. A concisely worded rationale behind the proposed research must be presented. The need for the proposed research must be clearly related to marketing and to the needs of agricultural cooperatives.

(iv) Objectives of the project. The specific description of the overall project goal(s) and supporting objectives must be presented.

(v) Procedures for conducting the research. The hypotheses or questions being asked and the methodology being applied to the proposed project must be described. A description of any subcontracting arrangements that will be used for conducting the research must be included. A tentative schedule for conducting major steps involved in the investigation must also be included.

(vi) The expected output of the project. A description of how the results of the research will be disseminated should be presented. Responsibility for publishing any research reports or other types of output should also be identified.
