
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4285 - COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart A - Federal-State Research on Cooperatives Program
###### ยง 4285.82 Use of funds; changes.
####### Change in project plans.

(b)(1) The permissible changes by the cooperator, principal investigator(s), or other key project personnel in the approved cooperative agreement shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the cooperator and/or the principal investigator(s) is uncertain whether a particular change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services for a final determination.

(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by cooperator and approved in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, or authorized delegate, prior to effecting such changes. Normally, no requests for such changes outside the scope of the original approved project will be approved.

(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or realignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the cooperator and approved in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, or authorized delegate, prior to effecting such changes.

(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the cooperator and approved in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, or authorized delegate, prior to effecting such changes, except as may be allowed in the terms and conditions of a cooperative agreement award.
