
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart B - Servicing Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.112 Interest rate changes.

(a) The borrower, lender, and holder (if any) may collectively initiate a permanent or temporary reduction in the interest rate of the guaranteed loan at any time during the life of the loan upon written agreement among these parties. The lender must obtain prior Agency concurrence and provide a copy of the modification agreement to the Agency. If any of the guaranteed portion has been purchased by the Agency, the Agency (as a holder) will affirm or reject interest rate change proposals in writing.

(b) No increases in interest rates will be permitted, except the normal fluctuations in approved variable interest rates, unless a temporary interest rate reduction occurred or to change from a variable rate to a fixed rate. Variable rates can be changed to a fixed rate at the request of the borrower, lender, agreement of the holder, if any, and with the Agency's prior written concurrence. After the rate change, the rate must meet the requirements of 7 CFR 4279.125.

(c) The interest rate, after adjustments, must comply with the interest rate requirements set forth in ยง 4279.125 of this chapter.

(d) The lender is responsible for the legal documentation of interest-rate changes by an endorsement or any other legally effective amendment to the promissory note; however, no new notes shall be issued. The lender must provide copies of all legal documents to the Agency.
