
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart B - Servicing Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.107 Routine servicing.
####### Borrower financial reports.

(d)The lender must obtain, analyze, and forward to the Agency the borrower's and any guarantor's annual financial statements required by the loan agreement within 120 days of the end of the borrower's fiscal year. States, local government, Indian tribes, institution of higher education, and nonprofit organization borrowers who meet the Federal awards expended threshold established in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, during their fiscal year must submit an audit conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. When the borrower's audit is conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, audits must be submitted no later than nine months after the end of the borrower's fiscal year or 30 days after the borrower's receipt of the auditor's report, whichever is earlier. The lender must analyze these financial statements and provide the Agency with a written summary of the lender's analysis, ratio analysis, and conclusions, which, at a minimum, must include trends, strengths, weaknesses, extraordinary transactions, violations of loan covenants and covenant waivers proposed by the lender, any routine servicing actions performed, and other indications of the financial condition of the borrower. Spreadsheets of the financial statements must also be included. Following the Agency's review of the lender's financial analysis, the Agency will provide a written report of any concerns to the lender. Any concerns based upon the Agency's review must be addressed by the lender. If the lender makes a reasonable attempt to obtain financial statements but is unable to obtain the borrower's cooperation, the failure to obtain financial statements will not impair the validity of the Loan Note Guarantee.
