
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart A - Requirements
####### Requirements for Plants Operating Under Continuous Inspection on a Contract Basis
######## ยง 51.59 Operations and operating procedures.

(a) The inspector shall refuse to permit the use of the official shield with grade mark or continuous inspection legend on packages if the produce is from a field or orchard having a disease or other condition which may not be apparent on individual specimens at packing time but which may cause the product to materially decrease in quality after packing.

(b) All products which are certified shall be subjected to continuous inspection throughout the packing operations.

(c) The inspectors are available for consultation purposes but shall not become involved in plant operations.

(d) The Inspection Service will not be responsible for damages occurring through any act of commission or omission on the part of its inspectors when engaged in rendering continuous inspection service; for packing errors or misbranding of products; or for failure to supply enough inspectors during any period of service provided under the contract.

(e) The applicant for continuous inspection shall:

(1) Conform to all applicable regulations under which the continuous inspection service is conducted.

(2) Use only raw material which has been handled or stored under conditions which insures its suitability for packing; maintain the plant designated herein in such sanitary condition and to employ such methods of handling raw materials for packing as may be necessary to conform to the sanitary requirements prescribed in this part.

(3) Not permit any of his marks or labels or buyers' and distributors' marks or labels applied by him on which reference is made to continuous inspection to be used on any product not packed under this continuous inspection service; or permit any of his marks or labels or buyers' and distributors' marks or labels applied by him on which reference is made to any U.S. Grade to be used on any product which does not meet the requirements of such grade; or to supply labels bearing reference to continuous inspection service to another plant unless the products to which such labels are to be applied have been packed under continuous inspection.

(4) Furnish any reports of packaging and output of products inspected, as may be requested by the inspection agencies.

(5) Make available to inspectors adequate office space in the designated plant and furnish suitable desks and office equipment for the proper care of inspection records.

(6) Make his laboratory or other facilities and necessary equipment available for the use of inspectors in making inspection of samples.

(7) Furnish if required, such stenographic and clerical assistance as may be necessary in the typing of certificates and reports and the handling of official correspondence, as well as the labor incident to drawing of samples and facilitating adequate inspection procedure when necessary.

(8) Submit to the Chief of the Fresh Products Standardization and Inspection Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, for approval prior to printing, drawings or printers' proofs of each packer's or distributor's label bearing or referring in any manner to official inspection legends or grade marks.

(9) Not make deceptive, fraudulent, or unauthorized use in his advertising, or otherwise, of the continuous inspection service, the inspection certificates or reports issued, or the containers on which the shield of the Department is identified, in connection with the sale of any of the packaged products; and to submit to the Agricultural Marketing Service through the inspector assigned to the plant or other representative of the Inspection Service, for approval to use any proposed advertising in which reference is made to the Inspection Service.
