
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart B - Servicing Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.113 Release of collateral.

(a) Within the parameters of paragraph (c) of this section, lenders may, over the life of the loan, release collateral (other than personal and corporate guarantees) without Agency concurrence if the proceeds generated are used to pay down debt in order of lien priority, reduce the guaranteed loan or to acquire replacement collateral. Working assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory, and work-in-progress that are routinely depleted or sold and proceeds used for the normal course of business operations may be used in and released for routine business purposes without prior concurrence of the Agency as long as the loan is not in monetary default or liquidation.

(b) If a release of collateral does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the lender must complete a written evaluation to justify the release and obtain written Agency concurrence in advance of the release.

(c) Collateral must remain sufficient to provide for adequate collateral coverage for the outstanding guaranteed loan(s). For a release of collateral request when the Borrower is not in monetary default or liquidation, the lender must support all releases of chattel collateral with a value exceeding $250,000 and real estate collateral with a value exceeding $500,000 with a current appraisal on the collateral being released and otherwise meets the requirements of ยง 4279.144 of this chapter. All other release of collateral requests must meet the appraisal requirements of ยง 4279.144 of this chapter. The cost of this appraisal will not be paid for by the Agency. The Agency may, at its discretion, require an appraisal of the remaining collateral in cases where it has been determined that the Agency may be adversely affected by the release of collateral. The sale or release of the collateral must be based on an arm's length transaction, and there must be adequate consideration for the release of collateral. Such consideration may include, but is not limited to:

(1) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's debts in order of their lien priority against the sold collateral;

(2) Use of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to purchase other collateral of equal or greater value for which the lender will obtain as security for the benefit of the guaranteed loan with a lien position equal or superior to the position previously held;

(3) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's business operation in such a manner that a significant improvement to the borrower's debt service ability will be clearly demonstrated. The lender's written request must detail how the borrower's debt service ability will be improved; or

(4) Assurance that the release of collateral is essential for the success of the business, thereby furthering the goals of the program. Such assurance must be supported by written documentation from the lender acceptable to the Agency.
