
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart B - Servicing Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.157 Liquidation.
####### Lender's liquidation plan.

(c)The lender is responsible for initiating actions immediately and as necessary to assure a prompt, orderly liquidation that will provide maximum recovery. Within 30 days after a decision to liquidate, the lender must submit a written, proposed plan of liquidation to the Agency for approval. The liquidation plan must be detailed and include at least the following:

(1) Such proof as the Agency requires to establish the lender's ownership of the guaranteed loan promissory note and related security instruments and a copy of the payment ledger, if available, that reflects the current loan balance, accrued interest to date, and the method of computing the interest;

(2) A full and complete list of all collateral, including any personal and corporate guarantees;

(3) The recommended liquidation methods for making the maximum collection possible on the indebtedness and the justification for such methods, including recommended action for acquiring and disposing of all collateral and collecting from guarantors;

(4) Necessary steps for preservation of the collateral;

(5) Copies of the borrower's most recently available financial statements;

(6) Copies of each guarantor's most recently available financial statements;

(7) An itemized list of estimated liquidation expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense;

(8) A schedule to periodically report to the Agency on the progress of liquidation, not to exceed every 60 days;

(9) Estimated protective advance amounts with justification;

(10) Proposed protective bid amounts on collateral to be sold at auction and a breakdown to show how the amounts were determined. A protective bid may be made by the lender, with prior Agency written approval, at a foreclosure sale to protect the lender's and the Agency's interest. The protective bid will not exceed the amount of the loan, including expenses of foreclosure, and must be based on the liquidation value considering estimated expenses for holding and reselling the property. These expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses for resale, interest accrual, length of time necessary for resale, maintenance, guard service, weatherization, and prior liens;

(11) If a voluntary conveyance is considered, the proposed amount to be credited to the guaranteed debt;

(12) Legal opinions, if needed by the lender's legal counsel; and

(13) An estimate of fair market and potential liquidation value of the collateral. If the value of the collateral is $250,000 or more, the lender must obtain an independent appraisal report meeting the requirements of ยง 4279.144 of this chapter for the collateral securing the loan, which reflects the fair market value and potential liquidation value. For collateral values under this threshold, lenders must follow their primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. The liquidation appraisal of the collateral must evaluate the impact on market value of any release of hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards. The independent appraiser's fee, including the cost of the environmental site assessment, will be shared equally by the Agency and the lender. In order to assure prompt action, the liquidation plan can be submitted with an estimate of collateral value, and the liquidation plan may be approved by the Agency subject to the results of the final liquidation appraisal.
