
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart B - Servicing Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.170 Bankruptcy.
####### Expenses during bankruptcy proceedings.

(c)(1) Under no circumstances will the guarantee cover liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.

(2) Expenses, such as reasonable attorney/legal fees and the cost of appraisals incurred by the lender as a direct result of the borrower's bankruptcy filing, are considered liquidation expenses. Liquidation expenses must be reasonable, customary, and provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the lender and the Agency. Lender's in-house expenses, which are those expenses that would normally be incurred for administration of the loan, including in-house lawyers, are not covered by the guarantee. Liquidation expenses must be deducted from collateral sale proceeds. The lender and Agency will share liquidation expenses equally. To accomplish this, the lender will deduct 50 percent of the liquidation expenses from the collateral sale proceeds.

(3) When a bankruptcy proceeding results in a liquidation of the borrower by a bankruptcy trustee, expenses will be handled as directed by the court, and the lender cannot claim liquidation expenses for the sale of the assets.

(4) If the property is abandoned by the bankruptcy trustee and any relief from the stay has been obtained, the lender will conduct the liquidation in accordance with ยง 4287.157.

(5) Proceeds received from the partial sale of collateral during bankruptcy may be used by the lender to pay reasonable costs associated with the partial sale, such as freight, labor, and sales commissions. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim.

(6) Reasonable and customary liquidation expenses in bankruptcy may be deducted from liquidation proceeds of collateral.
