
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart D - Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.312 Interest rate changes.
####### Reductions.

(a)The Borrower, Lender, and Holder (if any) may collectively initiate a permanent or temporary reduction in the Interest rate of the guaranteed loan at any time during the life of the loan upon written agreement among these parties. The Lender must obtain prior Agency concurrence and must provide a copy of the modification agreement to the Agency. If any of the guaranteed portion has been purchased by the Agency, the Agency (as a Holder) will affirm or reject Interest rate change proposals in writing.

(1) Fixed rates can be changed to variable rates to reduce the Borrower's Interest rate only when the variable rate has a ceiling which is less than or equal to the original fixed rate.

(2) The Interest rates, after adjustments, must comply with the requirements for Interest rates on new loans as established by ยง 4279.233 of this chapter.

(3) The Lender is responsible for the legal documentation of Interest rate changes by an endorsement or any other legally effective amendment to the Promissory Note; however, no new Promissory Notes may be issued. The Lender must provide copies of all legal documents to the Agency.
