
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart D - Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.334 Transfer and Assumption.
####### Documents.

(h)Prior to Agency approval, the Lender must provide the Agency a written legal opinion that the transaction can be properly and legally transferred and assurance that the conveyance instruments will be appropriately filed, registered, and recorded.

(1) The Lender must not issue any new Promissory Notes. The assumption must be completed in accordance with applicable law and must contain the Agency case number of the transferor and transferee. The Lender will provide the Agency with a copy of the Transfer and Assumption agreement. The Lender must ensure that all Transfers and Assumptions are noted on all original Loan Note Guarantees.

(2) A new Loan Agreement, consistent in principle with the original Loan Agreement, must be executed to establish the terms and conditions of the loan being assumed. An assumption agreement can be used to establish the loan covenants.

(3) Upon execution of the Transfer and Assumption, the Lender must provide the Agency with a written legal opinion that the Transfer and Assumption is completed, valid, enforceable, and certification that the Transfer and Assumption is consistent with the conditions outlined in the Agency's conditions of approval for the transfer and complies with all Agency regulations.
