
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart D - Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.356 Protective Advances.

Protective Advances are advances made by the Lender for the purpose of preserving and protecting the Collateral where the Borrower has failed to, will not, or cannot meet its obligations. Lenders must exercise sound judgment in determining that the Protective Advance preserves Collateral and recovery is actually enhanced by making the advance. Lenders cannot make Protective Advances in lieu of additional loans. A Protective Advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final payment as indicated in the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss.

(a) The maximum loss to be paid by the Agency will never exceed the original loan amount plus accrued Interest times the percentage of guarantee regardless of any Protective Advances made.

(b) In the event of a final loss, Protective Advances will accrue Interest at the Promissory Note rate and will be guaranteed at the same percentage of loss as provided in the Loan Note Guarantee. The guarantee will not cover Interest on the Protective Advance accruing after the Interest Termination Date.

(c) Protective Advances must constitute an indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender and be secured by the security instruments. Agency written authorization is required when the cumulative total of Protective Advances exceeds $200,000 or 10 percent of the outstanding balance of principal, whichever is less.
