
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart D - Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.370 Bankruptcy.
####### Estimated loss payments.

(1)(i) If a Borrower has filed for bankruptcy and all or a portion of the debt has been discharged, the Lender must request an estimated loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued Interest and principal discharged by the court. Only one estimated loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. All subsequent claims of the Lender during bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings will be considered revisions to the initial estimated loss. A revised estimated loss payment may be processed by the Agency, at its option, in accordance with any court-approved changes in the bankruptcy plan. Once the bankruptcy plan has been completed, the Lender is responsible for submitting the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the estimated loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and Interest and to reimburse the Lender for any court-ordered Interest rate reduction under the terms of the bankruptcy plan.

(ii) The Lender must use the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss to request an estimated loss payment and to revise any estimated loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy plan. The estimated loss claim, as well as any revisions to this claim, must be accompanied by documentation to support the claim.

(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, the Lender must:

(A) Complete a Form RD 1980-44 and forward this form to the Agency; and

(B) Provide the Agency with the documentation necessary to determine whether the estimated loss paid equals the actual loss sustained.
