
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart D - Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.370 Bankruptcy.
####### Bankruptcy loss payments.

(2)(i) The Lender must request a bankruptcy loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued Interest and principal discharged by the court for all bankruptcies when all or a portion of the debt has been discharged. Unless a final court decree approves a subsequent change to the bankruptcy plan that is adverse to the Lender, only one bankruptcy loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. Once a final court decree has discharged all or part of the guaranteed loan and any appeal period has run, the Lender must submit the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the bankruptcy loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and Interest.

(ii) The Lender must use the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss to request a bankruptcy loss payment and to revise any bankruptcy loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy. The Lender must include with the bankruptcy loss claim documentation to support the claim, as well as any revisions to this claim.

(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, restructuring, or liquidation, the Lender must either complete a Form RD 1980-44 and forward this form to the Agency or enter the data directly into LINC.

(iv) If an estimated loss claim is paid during a bankruptcy and the Borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the Lender, a final Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss is not necessary.
