
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4287 - SERVICING
##### Subpart D - Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans
###### ยง 4287.370 Bankruptcy.
####### Expenses during bankruptcy proceedings.

(c)(1) Under no circumstances will the guarantee cover Liquidation Expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.

(2) Expenses, such as reasonable attorney/legal fees and the cost of appraisals incurred by the Lender as a direct result of the Borrower's bankruptcy filing, will be shared equally by the Lender and the Agency.

(3) Reasonable and customary Liquidation Expenses must be deducted from Collateral sale proceeds. Liquidation Expenses are covered under the guarantee, provided they are reasonable, customary, and provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the Lender and the Agency. Lender's In-House Expenses, which are those expenses that would normally be incurred for administration of the loan, including in-house lawyers, are not covered by the guarantee.

(4) When a bankruptcy proceeding results in a liquidation of the Borrower by a bankruptcy trustee appointed under 11 U.S.C. 701, 702, 703 or 1104, expenses will be handled as directed by the court, and the Lender cannot claim Liquidation Expenses for the sale of the assets.

(5) If the property is abandoned by the bankruptcy trustee, the Lender will conduct the liquidation in accordance with ยง 4287.357.

(6) Proceeds received from partial sale of Collateral during bankruptcy may be used by the Lender to pay reasonable costs, such as freight, labor and sales commissions, associated with the partial sale. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim.
