
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4288 - PAYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Repowering Assistance Payments to Eligible Biorefineries
###### ยง 4288.20 Submittal of applications.
####### Form RD 4288-4.

(1)Applicants must submit this form and all necessary attachments providing project information on the biorefinery; the facility at which the biorefinery operates, including location and products produced; and the types and quantities of renewable biomass feedstock being proposed to produce heat or power. This form requires the applicant to provide relevant data to allow for technical analysis of their existing facility to demonstrate replacement of fossil fuel by renewable biomass with reasonable costs and maximum efficiencies. The applicant must also submit evidence that the biorefinery was in existence on or before June 18, 2008. The applicant is required to certify the information provided.

(2) RD Instruction 1940-Q, Exhibit A-1, "Certification for Contracts, Grants and Loans."

(3) Form RD 400-1.

(4) Form RD 400-4.

(5) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.

(6) Certifications. The applicant must furnish the Agency all required certifications before acceptance into the program, and furnish access to records required by the Agency to verify compliance with program provisions. The applicant must submit forms or other written documentation certifying to the following:

(i) AD-1047, "Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions" or other written documentation.

(ii) AD-1048, "Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions" or other written documentation.

(iii) SF-LLL, "Disclosure of Lobbying Activities."
