
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4288 - PAYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Advanced Biofuel Payment Program General Provisions
###### Payment Provisions
####### ยง 4288.131 Payment provisions.
######## Other payment provisions.

(e)The following provisions apply:

(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions in this section, the Agency will provide payments to one or more eligible advanced biofuel producers from a single eligible Commodity, including intermediate ingredients of that single Commodity or use of that single Commodity and its intermediate ingredients in combination with another Commodity, of not more than one-third of available program funds in each quarter.

(i) Payments to producers for advanced biofuel derived from a commodity listed in Title I grains and oilseeds (as defined paragraph (1) of the defintion of commodity in ยง 4288.102), are subject to the one-third limitation as tracked individually for each commodity. For example, with respect to the Title I grains and oilseeds commodity-grain sorghum, all payments for the quarter to producers of advanced biofuel derived from grain sorghum are tabulated and subject to the one-third payment limitation. This is similarly true for each commodity listed under Title I grains and oilseeds-barley, oats, rice, soybeans, etc.

(ii) Payments to producers for advanced biofuel derived from a commodity listed in paragraphs (2) through (6) of the defintion of commodity in ยง 4288.102, inclusively, are subject to the one-third limitation as tracked cumulatively with each commodity group. For example, with respect to the commodity in paragraph (2) of the definition of commodity (other oilseeds and nuts including cottonseed, palm, camelina, coconut, and olive and algae), all payments for the quarter to producers of fuel derived from "other oilseeds, nuts and algae" are tabulated cumulatively (all are tracked as "other oilseeds, nuts, and algae" whether olive, or coconut, or camelina, etc.) and subject cumulatively to the one-third payment limitation. This is similarly true for the commodity in paragraphs (3) through (6) of the definition of commodity.

(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Agency will provide payments to large producers of not more than five (5) percent of available program funds in any fiscal year. At any time during the year, if the limit on payments to large producers would be reached, the Agency will pro-rate payments to large producers based on the BTU content of their eligible advanced biofuel production so as not to exceed the limit.

(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Agency will provide payments to any eligible advanced biofuel producer, that is not a large producer, of not more than eight (8) percent of available funds in any fiscal year. At any time during the year, if the eight percent to the advanced biofuel producer would be reached, the Agency will pro-rate payments based on the BTU content of the eligible advanced biofuel production so as not to exceed the limit.

(4) Advanced biofuel producers will be paid based on the amount of eligible renewable energy content of the advanced biofuels only if the producer provides sufficient documentation, including a Certificate of Analysis, for the Agency to determine the eligible renewable energy content for which payment is being requested, and quantity produced through such documentation as, but not limited to, records of sale and calibrated flow meter records.

(5) Payment will be made to only one eligible advanced biofuel producer per biorefinery. If a producer owns more than one facility, the Agency's tracking system will add all actual BTUs and calculate one payment amount. For facilities owned by more than one producer, only one payment will be issued per facility.

(6) Subject to other provisions of this section, advanced biofuel producers shall be paid any sum due.

(7) A producer will be paid only for the advanced biofuels identified in the enrollment application submitted during the sign-up period and which are produced during the fiscal year. If the producer starts producing a new advanced biofuel or changes the type of advanced biofuel during the fiscal year, the producer will not receive any payments for those new advanced biofuels. However, during each sign-up period, a producer may identify new advanced biofuels and production levels compared to the previous year.
