
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4288 - PAYMENT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Advanced Biofuel Payment Program General Provisions
###### Payment Provisions
####### ยง 4288.131 Payment provisions.
######## Determination of payment rate.

(d)Each quarter, the Agency will establish an actual production payment rate using the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. This rate will be applied to the actual quantity of eligible advanced biofuel produced to determine payments to eligible advanced biofuel producers.

(1) Based on the information provided in each payment application, the Agency will determine the eligible advanced biofuel production. If the Agency determines that the amount of advanced biofuel production reported in a payment application is not supported by the documentation submitted with the payment application, the Agency may revise the reported production to an amount that is commensurate with the submitted documentation.

(2) For each producer, the Agency will convert the production determined to be eligible under paragraph (c) of this section into British Thermal Unit (BTU) equivalent using factors published by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) (or successor organization). If the Energy Information Administration does not publish such conversion factor for a specific type of advanced biofuel, the Agency will use a conversion factor developed by another appropriate entity. If no such conversion factor exists, the Agency, in consultation with other Federal agencies, will establish and use a conversion formula as appropriate, until the Energy Information Administration or other appropriate entity publishes a conversion factor for said advanced biofuel. The Agency will then calculate the total eligible BTUs across all eligible applications.

(3) For each quarter, the Agency will determine the actual production payment rate ($/BTU) based on paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. The rate will be calculated such that all quarterly funds for actual production will be distributed, subject to the payment provisions specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) Using the actual production payment rate determined and the actual production for each type of advanced biofuel produced at a biorefinery, the Agency will calculate each quarter payment for each eligible advanced biofuel producer for that quarter.
