
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4290 - RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY ("RBIC") PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Definition of Terms Used in Part 4290
###### ยง 4290.50 Definition of terms.
####### Associate

of a RBIC means any of the following:

(1)(i) An officer, director, employee or agent of a Corporate RBIC;

(ii) A Control Person, employee or agent of a Partnership RBIC;

(iii) A managing member of an LLC RBIC;

(iv) An Investment Adviser/Manager of any RBIC, including any Person who contracts with a Control Person of a RBIC to be the Investment Adviser/Manager of such RBIC; or

(v) Any Person regularly serving a RBIC on retainer in the capacity of attorney at law.

(2) Any Person who owns or controls, or who has entered into an agreement to own or control, directly or indirectly, at least 10 percent of any class of stock of a Corporate RBIC or 10 percent of the membership interests of an LLC RBIC, or a limited partner's interest of at least 10 percent of the partnership capital of a Partnership RBIC. However, neither a limited partner in a Partnership RBIC nor a non-managing member in an LLC RBIC is considered an Associate if such Person is an Entity Institutional Investor whose investment in the Partnership, including commitments, represents no more than 33 percent of the capital of the RBIC and no more than five percent of such Person's net worth.

(3) Any officer, director, partner (other than a limited partner), manager, agent, or employee of any Associate described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition.

(4) Any Person that directly or indirectly Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under Common Control with, a RBIC.

(5) Any Person that directly or indirectly Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under Common Control with, any Person described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition.

(6) Any Close Relative of any Person described in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of this definition.

(7) Any Secondary Relative of any Person described in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of this definition.

(8) Any concern in which-

(i) Any person described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of this definition is an officer; general partner, or managing member; or

(ii) Any such Person(s) singly or collectively Control or own, directly or indirectly, an equity interest of at least 10 percent (excluding interests that such Person(s) own indirectly through ownership interests in the RBIC).

(9) Any concern in which any Person(s) described in paragraph (7) of this definition singly or collectively own (including beneficial ownership) a majority equity interest, or otherwise have Control. As used in this paragraph (9), "collectively" means together with any Person(s) described in paragraphs (1) though (7) of this definition.

(10) For the purposes of this definition, any Associate relationship described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition that exists at any time within six months before or after the date that a RBIC provides Financing, will be considered to exist on the date of the Financing.
