
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart B - United States Standards for Grades of Apples
####### Definitions
######## ยง 51.317 Damage.
######### Provided,

(f) Invisible water core existing around the core and extending to water core in the vascular bundles, or surrounding the vascular bundles when the affected areas surrounding three or more vascular bundles meet or coalesce, or existing in more than a slight degree outside the circular area formed by the vascular bundles.That invisible water core shall not be scored as damage against the Fuji variety of apples under any circumstances.

(g) Bruises which are not slight and incident to proper handling and packing, and which are greater than:

(1)inch in depth;

(2)inch in diameter;

(3) any combination of lesser bruises which detract from the appearance or edible quality of the apple to an extent greater than any one bruise described in paragraphs (g)(1) or (2) of this section.

(h) Brown surface discoloration when caused by delayed sunburn, surface scald, or any other means and affects an area greater thaninch in diameter.

(i) Disease: (1) Scab spots which affect a total area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.

(2) Cedar rust infection which affects a total area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.

(3) Sooty blotch or fly speck which is thinly scattered over more than one-tenth of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than one-half inch in diameter.

(4) Red skin spots which are thinly scattered over more than one-tenth of the surface, or dark, heavily concentrated spots which affect an area of more than one-half inch in diameter.

(5) Bitter pit or Jonathan spot when one or more spots affects the surface of the apple.

(j) Insects: (1) Any healed sting or healed stings which affect a total area of more than three-sixteenths inch in diameter including any encircling discolored rings.

(2) Worm holes.
