
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4290 - RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY ("RBIC") PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Qualifications for the RBIC Program
###### Organizing a RBIC
####### § 4290.160 Special rules for Partnership RBICs and LLC RBICs.
######## Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member.

(a)(1) A general partner of a Partnership RBIC which is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership (an "Entity General Partner"), or a managing member of an LLC RBIC which is a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership (an "Entity Managing Member") shall be organized under State law solely for the purpose of serving as the general partner or managing member of one or more RBICs, and shall be organized for profit.

(2) The Agency must approve any person who will serve as an officer, director, manager, or general partner of the Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member and of an entity that Controls the Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member. This provision must be stated in an Entity General Partner's or Entity Managing Member's articles of incorporation or charter and bylaws if a corporation, operating agreement if a limited liability company, or partnership agreement if a partnership.

(3) An Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member is subject to the same examination and reporting requirements as a RBIC under sections 384K and 384L of the Act. The restrictions and obligations imposed upon a RBIC by §§ 4290.1810, 4290.30, 4290.410 through 4290.450, 4290.470, 4290.500, 4290.510, 4290.585, 4290.600, 4290.680, 4290.690 through 4290.692, and 4290.1910 apply also to an Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member of a RBIC.

(4) The general partner(s) of your Entity General Partner(s) or Entity Managing Member(s) will be considered your general partner.

(5) If your Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member is a limited partnership, its limited partners may be considered your Control Person(s) if they meet the definition for Control Person in § 4290.50.
