
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4290 - RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY ("RBIC") PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Examination Requirements for RBICs
###### Recordkeeping Requirements for RBICs
####### ยง 4290.600 General requirement for RBIC to maintain and preserve records.
######## Preservation of records.

(c)You must retain all the records that are the basis for your financial reports. Such records must be preserved for the periods specified in this paragraph (c) and must remain readily accessible for the first two years of the preservation period.

(1) You must preserve for at least 15 years or, in the case of a Partnership RBIC or LLC RBIC, at least two years beyond the date of liquidation:

(i) All your accounting ledgers and journals, and any other records of assets, asset valuations, liabilities, equity, income, and expenses;

(ii) Your Articles, bylaws, minute books, and RBIC application; and

(iii) All documents evidencing ownership of the RBIC including ownership ledgers and ownership transfer registers.

(2) You must preserve for at least six years all supporting documentation (such as vouchers, bank statements, or canceled checks) for the records listed in paragraph (b)(l) of this section.

(3) After final disposition of any item in your Portfolio, you must preserve for at least six years:

(i) Financing applications and Financing instruments;

(ii) All loan, participation, and escrow agreements;

(iii) All certifications listed in ยง 4290.610 of this part;

(iv) Any capital stock certificates and warrants of the Portfolio Concern that you did not surrender or exercise; and

(v) All other documents and supporting material relating to the Portfolio Concern, including correspondence.

(4) You may substitute a microfilm or computer-scanned or generated copy for the original of any record covered by this paragraph (c).
