
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4290 - RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY ("RBIC") PROGRAM
##### Subpart K - RBIC's Noncompliance With Terms of Leverage
###### Computation of RBIC'S Capital Impairment
####### ยง 4290.1840 Computation of RBIC's Capital Impairment Percentage.
######## How to compute your Adjusted Unrealized Gain.

(d)(1) Subtract Unrealized Depreciation from Unrealized Appreciation. This is your "Net Appreciation".

(2) Determine your Unrealized Appreciation on Publicly Traded and Marketable securities. This is your "Class I Appreciation".

(3) Determine your Unrealized Appreciation on securities that are not Publicly Traded and Marketable and meet the following criteria, which must be substantiated to the Agency's satisfaction (this is your "Class 2 Appreciation"):

(i) The Portfolio Concern that issued the security received a significant subsequent equity financing by an investor whose objectives were not primarily strategic and at a price that conclusively supports the Unrealized Appreciation;

(ii) Such financing represents a substantial investment in the form of an arm's-length transaction by a sophisticated new investor in the issuer's securities; and

(iii) Such financing occurred within 24 months of the date of the Capital Impairment computation, or the Portfolio Concern's pre-tax cash flow from operations for its most recent fiscal year was at least 10 percent of its average contributed capital for such fiscal year.

(4) Perform the appropriate computation from the table in 13 CFR 107.1840(d)(4).

(5) Reduce the gain computed in paragraph (d)(4) of this section by your estimate of related future income tax expense. Subject to any adjustment required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section, the result is your Adjusted Unrealized Gain for use in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(6) If any securities that are the source of either Class 1 or Class 2 Appreciation are pledged or encumbered in any way, you must reduce the Adjusted Unrealized Gain computed in paragraph (d)(5) of this section by the amount of the related borrowing or other obligation, up to the amount of the Unrealized Appreciation on the securities.
