
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter XLII - Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 4290 - RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY ("RBIC") PROGRAM
##### Subpart O - Additional Requirements for Non-Leveraged Licensees and Exceptions to Regulations
###### § 4290.3005 Qualifications for the Non-leveraged RBIC Program.
####### Business form.

(a)In addition to complying with the applicable provisions of § 4290.100 not otherwise modified by this section, paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section apply.

(1) For RBICs applying for non-leveraged status, the types of investors eligible to invest in a RBIC must have been approved by the Agency. Investors seeking approval must submit a request to the Agency with sufficient documentation to support their request. The USDA will announce such approved categories and types of investors in a public notice published in thefrom time to time. Subsequent notices that modify the types of investors eligible to invest in a RBIC will not be applied retroactively.

(2) In lieu of complying with § 4290.100(d)(1)(i), you must have a minimum duration of 10 years. After 10 years, the Partnership RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your partners.

(3) In lieu of complying with § 4290.100(d)(2), if you are a LLC RBIC, you must have a minimum duration of 10 years. After 10 years, the LLC RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your members.

(4) In lieu of complying with § 4290.100(d)(3), if you are a Corporate RBIC, you must have a duration of not less than 30 years unless earlier dissolved by the shareholders.
