
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 5001.3 Definitions.
####### Simple payback

means the estimated simple payback of a project funded under this part as calculated using paragraph (1), (2), or (3), as applicable, of this definition.

(1) Energy efficiency improvement projects simple payback = (Total Project Costs) &#xF7; (Dollar value of energy saved).

(i) Energy saved will be determined by subtracting the projected energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition) to be consumed from the historical energy consumed (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition), and converting the result to a monetary value using a constant value or price of energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(C) of this definition).

(A) Actual energy used in the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, prior to the EEI project, must be based on the actual average annual total energy used in British thermal units (BTU) over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation.

(B) Projected energy use if the proposed EEI project had been in place for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for the same time period used to determine that actual energy use under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition.

(C) Value or price of energy must be the actual average price paid over the same time period used to calculate the actual energy used under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition.

(ii) Energy efficiency improvement projects simple payback does not allow EEI to monetize benefits other than the dollar amount of the energy savings the agricultural producer or rural small business realizes as a result of the improvement.

(2) Renewable energy systems projects simple payback = (total project costs) &#xF7; (dollar value of energy units replaced, credited, sold, or used and fair market value of byproducts as applicable in a typical year).

(i) Value of energy replaced will be calculated based on the borrower entity's historical energy consumption with actual average price paid for the energy replaced, following the methodology outlined in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition.

(ii) Value of energy credited or sold will be calculated based on the amount of energy units to be sold at the proposed rate per unit, as documented in utility net metering or crediting policies and/or a purchase agreement.

(iii) If proposed energy will be used in a new facility, value of energy used will be calculated based on the amount of energy units to be used at the documented price per unit of conventional fuel alternative.

(iv) Value of byproducts produced by and used in the project or related enterprises should be documented at the fair market value to be received for the byproducts in a typical year.

(v) Renewable energy systems projects simple payback does not include any one-time benefits such as but not limited to construction and investment-related benefits, nor credits which do not provide annual income to the project, such as tax credits.

(3) Energy efficiency equipment and systems projects simple payback = (total project costs) &#xF7; (dollar value of efficiency savings). Efficiency savings will be determined by subtracting the annual value of energy to be consumed by the proposed energy efficient equipment from the annual value of energy that a conventional equipment alternative would have consumed. Adequate documentation must be provided for all consumption estimates and values utilized in the calculation.
