
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 5001.8 Approvals, regulations, and forms.
####### https://www.rd.usda.gov/onerdguaranteed.

(d) Copies of all regulations and forms referenced in this part can be obtained through the Agency and from the Agency's website at

(e) 7 CFR part 5001 does not prohibit or consent to electronic signatures. Rural Development will accept electronic signatures from Lenders for origination, loan closing, and servicing documents in accordance with the E-Sign Act unless otherwise prohibited by law or program. Lenders may use electronic signatures for electronic promissory notes (eNotes), deeds of trust and other documents relevant to the loan transaction, providing that the lender perfects and maintains a first lien position, an enforceable promissory note, and meets all other agency requirements including the following:

(1) Lenders may submit forms to Rural Development electronically using USDA's Service Center Agencies Online Services website. Registration is limited to individuals and each individual authorized by the Lender must register and upon registration may electronically sign and submit certain forms on behalf of the Lender.

(2) Lenders who choose to accept electronic signatures from borrowers must ensure that such signatures meet the standards and requirements set forth in the E-Sign Act, as well as all other applicable federal and state regulations and guidelines. Lenders are charged with the same responsibility of due diligence with electronically signed documents as they are with paper documents. If any electronically signed document is deemed unenforceable and is connected to any fraud, misrepresentation or negligent servicing, the lender bears the risk that any loss claim submitted in relation to the unenforceable document will be denied or reduced in accordance with applicable regulations. Any loss attributed to a lender's failure to collect on the promissory note or enforce the security instrument because of its electronic signature will be treated as negligent servicing under 7 CFR 5001 servicing regulations. Failure to comply with any Federal statute or regulation could result in the denial of a loan guarantee or claim, withdrawal of lending authority and/or debarment from Federal programs.
