
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 5001.5 Appeal and review rights.

Borrowers, lenders, and holders may have appeal or review rights for Agency decisions made under this part. Agency decisions that are adverse to the individual participant are appealable, while matters of general applicability are not subject to appeal; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). All appeals will be conducted by NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.

(a) The borrower, lender, and holder can appeal any Agency decision that directly and adversely affects them.

(1) For an adverse decision that affects the borrower, the lender and borrower must jointly execute a written request for appeal of an adverse decision made by the Agency.

(2) An adverse decision that affects only the lender can be appealed by the lender only.

(3) An adverse decision that affects only the holder can be appealed by the holder only.

(b) In cases where the Agency has denied or reduced the amount of final loss payment to the lender, the adverse decision can be appealed only by the lender.

(c) A decision by a lender adverse to the interest of the borrower is not a decision by the Agency, even if it was concurred in by the Agency, and therefore cannot be reviewed for appealability or appealed to NAD.
