
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.103 Eligible CF projects and requirements.
####### Public use.

(b)All facilities financed under the provisions of this section will be for public use.

(1) To demonstrate availability for public use, the borrower may not restrict use of or membership to its facility or service based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, or marital or familial status.

(i) However, 7 CFR 15a.215(b) provides that the membership practices of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls are exempt from open membership practices on the basis of sex.

(ii) If membership or admission is customarily required to access and use the facility or service, any individual who applies for membership or admission must be given membership, admitted, or be placed on a waiting list to join as space becomes available on a first-come, first-served basis. This does not preclude an essential community facility from having a threshold admission requirement, such as a college or university requiring their applicants to have a certain grade point average before they are considered for admission. The standard must be applied consistently to all applicants and be common to the industry.
