
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.102 Project eligibility - general.
####### Debt refinancing.

(d)The Agency can guarantee loans for debt refinancing, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. Longer-term financing to pay off a lender's interim construction loan after project completion will not be treated as debt refinancing. An eligible debt refinancing project is:

(1) Refinancing of debt on one or more loans owed to another creditor;

(2) Refinancing of debt owed to the applicant lender or any part thereof provided that the applicant lender debt being refinanced does not exceed 50 percent of the total use of funds in the new aggregated federally-guaranteed debt, the applicant lender debt being refinanced is in a current status for the past six months and the new guaranteed loan is providing better rates or repayment terms. The current status cannot be achieved by the lender forgiving the borrower's debt or by servicing actions that impact the borrower's repayment schedule; or

(3) Refinancing of debt owed directly to the Federal Government or that is federally-guaranteed, including any guaranteed debt owed to the applicant lender, when a refinance of this debt is consistent with sections 333 and 306(a)(24)(C) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (as amended by the Agricultural Act of 2018, Pub. L. 115-334). Such guaranteed debt shall not be included in the amount of applicant lender debt when calculating the maximum percentage of the total use of funds in the new guaranteed loan as stated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and,

(4) When the refinancing is in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section, the following requirements must be met:

(i) The Agency has determined that the project is viable and debt refinancing is necessary to improve cash flow;

(ii) The debt is reflected on the borrower's balance sheet and the original loan funds were used for project-eligible purposes. Refinancing of existing of lines of credit is considered an eligible purpose for debt refinancing in the B&I program;

(iii) For loans where debt refinancing is a majority purpose of the guaranteed loan, the borrower must demonstrate historical actual cash available to provide a total debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.1 times its new debt service requirements or that the borrower's current financial performance demonstrates it has corrected or recovered from impacts or issues adversely effecting its past financial performance.

(5) Refinancing of debt incurred by a rural hospital to preserve access to a health service when the refinancing will meaningfully improve the financial position of the hospital. The debt can be existing Agency direct loan debt, Agency guaranteed debt, or another lender's debt. Loan requests to refinance rural hospital debt must demonstrate that the new amount of annual debt repayment on the debt being refinanced will be less than the existing amount of annual debt repayment and provide a total debt service coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 based on historical cash flow. To calculate the ratio, the new debt service amount will include annual capital expense reserve and annual debt repayment reserve requirements.
