
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### § 5001.105 Eligible B&I projects and requirements.
####### Type of project.

(b)The project must be for one or more of the uses described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (22) of this section.

(1) Purchase and development of land, buildings, or infrastructure for public or private commercial enterprises or industrial properties, including expansion or modernization.

(2) Business acquisitions, start-ups, and expansions if jobs will be created or saved. A business acquisition is considered the acquisition of an entire business, not a partial stock acquisition in a business. However, acquisition or change of ownership between existing owners is an eligible project when the remaining owner(s) held their ownership and actively participated in the business operation for at least the past 24 months and the selling owner will not retain any ownership interest in the business directly or indirectly including through other entities or trusts or property rights.

(3) Purchase and installation of machinery and equipment.

(4) Startup costs, working capital, inventory, and supplies in the form of a permanent working capital term loan.

(5) Pollution control and abatement.

(6) Purchase of membership, stocks, bonds, or debentures necessary to obtain a loan from a member owned lending institution provided the purchase is required for all their borrowers and is the minimum amount required.

(7) Agricultural production, when not eligible for Farm Service Agency (FSA) farm loan programs assistance and when it is part of an integrated business also involved in the processing of agricultural products. Any agricultural production considered for guaranteed loan financing must be owned, operated, and maintained by the business receiving the guaranteed loan.

(i) The agricultural production portion of any loan must not exceed 50 percent of the total loan or $5 million, whichever is less.

(ii) This paragraph does not preclude financing the following types of businesses:

(A) Commercial nurseries engaged in the production of ornamental plants, trees, and other nursery products, such as bulbs, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of plants from seed to the transplant stage;

(B) Forestry, which includes businesses primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, harvesting of forest products, and related activities, such as reforestation;

(C) The growing or harvesting of mushrooms;

(D) The growing of hydroponics;

(E) The boarding and/or training of animals;

(F) Commercial fishing; and

(G) Production of algae and aquaculture, including conservation, development, and utilization of water for aquaculture.

(8) Tourist and recreation facilities, including hotels, motels, bed and breakfast establishments, and resort trailer parks and campgrounds operated as a public or private commercial enterprise. Owner-occupied housing, such as bed and breakfasts, hotels and motels are only allowed when the pro rata value of a direct owner's living quarters, based on square footage, is deducted from the use of loan proceeds.

(9) Educational or training facilities including other CF projects when not eligible for financing through Rural Housing Service or Community Facilities programs.

(10) Development and construction of broadband and telecommunication systems, including modification of existing systems, that are not otherwise eligible for funding in the RUS program or if funding is unavailable in the RUS program, subject to the Public Notice Filing requirements of 7 CFR 1738.106(a) and the additional reporting requirements of 7 CFR 1738.107.

(11) Industries undergoing adjustment from terminated Federal agricultural price and income support programs or increased competition from foreign trade.

(12) Constructing or equipping facilities for lease to private businesses engaged in commercial or industrial operations.

(13) Financing for mixed-use properties involving both commercial business and residential space is authorized, provided that not less than 50 percent of the business's projected revenue will be generated from business use.

(14) Leasehold improvements when the lease contains no reverter clauses or restrictive clauses that would impair the use or value of the property as security for the loan. The term of the lease must be equal to or greater than the term of the loan, unless otherwise mitigated by the lender and approved by the Agency.

(15) Projects that process, distribute, aggregate, store, and/or market locally or regionally produced agricultural food products to support community development and farm and ranch income.

(i) Subject to each of the following, projects may be located in non-rural areas as well as in rural areas if the project:

(A) Expands or preserves the availability of staple food in underserved areas with moderate and low-income populations by maintaining or increasing the number of retail or institutional outlets that offer an assortment of healthy perishable foods and staple food items;

(B) The project will create or retain quality jobs for low-income residents of the community;

(C) A significant amount of the food is locally or regionally produced and sold; and

(D) Includes an appropriate agreement with retail and institutional clients to inform consumers that they are purchasing or consuming locally or regionally produced agricultural food products.

(ii) The Agency will give funding priority to projects that provide a benefit to underserved communities in accordance with § 5001.318(d)(5) of this part.

(16) The purchase of cooperative stock by individual farmers or ranchers in a farmer or rancher cooperative or the purchase of transferable cooperative stock in accordance with § 5001.140(a) and (b); or the purchase of stock in a business by employees forming an ESOP or worker cooperative in accordance with § 5001.140(d).

(17) The purchase of preferred stock or similar equity issued by a cooperative or a loan to a fund that invests primarily in cooperatives in accordance with § 5001.140(c).

(18) Loans to cooperatives:

(i) Guaranteed loans to eligible cooperative may be made in principal amounts up to $40 million if the project is located in a rural area, the cooperative facility being financed provides for the value-added processing of agricultural commodities, and the total amount of guaranteed loans exceeding $25 million does not exceed 10 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year. Guaranteed loans in excess of $25 million in accordance with this provision may only be approved by the Secretary, whose authority may not be redelegated.

(ii) Guaranteed loans to eligible cooperative may also be made in non-rural Areas provided:

(A) The primary purpose of the guaranteed loan is for a facility to provide value-added processing for agricultural producers that are located within 80 miles of the facility;

(B) The borrower satisfactorily demonstrates that the primary benefit of the guaranteed loan will be to provide employment for rural residents;

(C) The principal amount of the guaranteed loan does not exceed $25 million; and

(D) The total amount of guaranteed loans guaranteed under this paragraph does not exceed 10 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year.

(iii) An eligible cooperative may refinance an existing B&I guaranteed loan if the existing loan is current and performing, the existing loan is not and has not been in monetary default or the collateral has not been converted, and there is adequate security and collateral for the new guaranteed loan.

(19) Taxable corporate bonds when the bonds are fully amortizing and comply with all provisions of this part, bond proceeds were used for an eligible purpose in this part, and the lender as bond holder retains the percent of the bond in accordance with § 5001.408(3)(i) of this part. The bonds must be fully secured with collateral in accordance with § 5001.202(b)(4) of this part. The bonds must only provide for a trustee when the trustee is totally under the control of the lender. The bonds must provide no rights to bond holders other than the right to receive the payments due under the bond. For instance, the bonds must not provide for bond holders replacing the trustee or directing the trustee to take servicing actions, such as accelerating the bonds. In accordance with § 5001.127(f), convertible bonds are not eligible under this paragraph due to the potential conflict of interest of a lender having an ownership interest in the borrower. An explanation of the type of bond and other bond stipulations must be attached to the bond.

(i) The bond issuer must obtain the services and opinion of an experienced bond counsel, who must present a legal opinion stating that the bonds are legal, valid, and binding obligations of the issuer and that the issuer has adhered to all applicable laws.

(ii) The bond holder (lender) must purchase all the bonds issued pursuant to the guaranteed and comply with all Agency regulations. There must be a bond purchase agreement between the issuer and the bond holder. The bond purchase agreement must contain similar language to that required in a loan agreement and must not conflict with this part. The bond holder is responsible for all servicing of the guaranteed loan evidenced by the bond, although the bond holder may contract for servicing assistance, including contracting with a trustee who remains under the lender's total control.

(20) Nursing homes and assisted living facilities where constant medical care is provided and available onsite to the residents. Independent living facilities are not eligible in accordance with § 5001.118(a).

(21) Development and construction of RES, including modification of existing systems that are commercially available and that are not otherwise eligible under REAP, or if funding is not available in the REAP program.

(22) Integrated processing equipment and systems, such as biorefineries, renewable energy systems, and chemical manufacturing facilities, must utilize commercially available technology, equipment, and systems and demonstrate technical merit. The Agency will evaluate the following areas in making the technical merit determination:

(i) Qualifications of the project team;

(ii) Agreements and permits;

(iii) Resource assessment;

(iv) Design and engineering;

(v) Project development;

(vi) Equipment procurement and installation; and

(vii) Operations and maintenance.
