
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### § 5001.106 Eligible REAP - Renewable Energy System (RES) projects and requirements.

For a REAP RES Project to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in § 5001.102(a) through (c) and in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section and be for a borrower eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126. If taxable bonds are utilized as debt instruments the provisions of § 5001.105(b)(19) must be met.

(a) The project must be for-

(1) The purchase of a new or existing RES;

(2) The purchase of a refurbished RES; or

(3) The retrofitting of an existing RES.

(4) For the purposes of this section, only those hydroelectric sources with a rated power of 30 megawatts or less are an eligible RES.

(b) The RES project must use commercially available technology.

(c) The RES project must be located in a rural area unless the borrower is an agricultural producer and the application supports the production, processing, vertical integration, or marketing of agricultural products. If the agricultural producer's operation is in a non-rural area, then the application can only be for RES components that are:

(1) Directly related to, and their use and purpose is limited to the agricultural production operation, such as vertically integrated operations; and

(2) Part of and co-located with the agricultural production operation.

(d) Where a residence is closely associated with an agricultural operation or rural small business to be served by the RES project, 50 percent or more of the energy to be generated by the RES project must be used by the agricultural operation or rural small business. This provision must be documented with the application and can be demonstrated using either of the methods identified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Provide a renewable energy site assessment or other documentation and calculations that demonstrate based on historical energy use that 50 percent or more of the energy to be produced by the RES project will be used in the agricultural operation or rural small business. This includes documentation on historical residential energy use. The Agency may request additional data to determine residential versus business or agricultural operation usage. The actual percentage of energy determined to benefit the rural small business or agricultural operation will be the basis to determine eligible project costs.

(2) The borrower may install or elect to conditionalize funding upon the installation of a device (such as a second meter) that results in 100 percent of the energy generated by the RES Project to be used only by the agricultural operation or rural small business.

(e) The RES project must have technical merit. The Agency will use the information provided in the technical report submitted with the application (see § 5001.307(e) of this part) to determine if the project has technical merit. In making this determination, the Agency may engage the services of other Government agencies or other recognized industry experts in the applicable technology field, at its discretion, to evaluate the technical report.
