
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### § 5001.121 Eligible uses of loan funds.
####### B&I projects.

(c)Guaranteed loan funds for a project receiving a loan guarantee under § 5001.1 may be used to pay the expenses identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section.

(1) Purchase and development of land, buildings, and associated infrastructure for commercial or industrial properties, including expansion or modernization.

(2) Business acquisitions provided that jobs will be created or saved. A business acquisition is considered the acquisition of an entire business, not a partial stock acquisition in a business. However, acquisition or change of ownership between existing owners is an eligible use of loan funds when the remaining owner(s) held their ownership and actively participated in the business operation for at least the past 24 months and the selling owner will not retain any ownership interest in the business directly or indirectly including through other entities or trusts or property rights.

(3) Purchase of machinery and equipment.

(4) Startup costs, working capital, inventory, and supplies in the form of a permanent working capital term loan.

(5) Pollution control and abatement.

(6) Takeout of interim financing: Guaranteeing a loan that provides for permanent, long-term financing after project completion to pay off a lender's interim loan will not be treated as debt refinancing provided that the lender submits a complete request for preliminary eligibility review or complete application that proposes such interim financing prior to closing the interim loan. The borrower must take no action until the conclusion of the environmental review process prior to any action that would have an adverse effect on the environment or limit the choices of any reasonable alternatives to be considered by the Agency.

(7) Guarantee fees, as determined under § 5001.454.

(8) Lender fees, as determined under § 5001.403.

(9) Professional service fees and charges, provided the Agency approves the amounts as reasonable and customary in the area and fees for construction permits and licenses.

(10) Feasibility studies and business plans.

(11) Interest (including interest on interim financing) during the period before the first principal payment becomes due or when the facility becomes income producing, whichever is earlier.

(12) Refinancing in accordance with § 5001.102(d).
