
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.121 Eligible uses of loan funds.
####### e.g.,

(v) Costs of acquiring interests in land, rights (water rights, leases, and permits), rights-of-way, and other evidence of land or water control necessary for development of the project;

(vi) Costs of purchasing or renting equipment necessary to install, maintain, extend, protect, operate, or utilize facilities;

(vii) Obligations for construction worked performed prior to filing an Application with the Agency. Construction work must not be started (and obligations for such work or materials must not be incurred) before the conditional commitment is issued. If there are compelling reasons for proceeding with construction before the conditional commitment is issued, lenders may request Agency approval to pay such obligations and not jeopardize receipt of a loan guarantee from the Agency. Such request must comply with the following conditions:

(A) Provide conclusive evidence that the contract was entered into without intent to circumvent the Agency regulations, including but not limited to 7 CFR part 1970;

(B) Modify the outstanding contract to conform to the provisions of this part. When this is not possible, modifications will be made to the extent practicable and, at a minimum, the contract must comply with all State and local laws and regulations as well as statutory requirements and Executive Orders related to the Agency guarantee.

(C) When construction is complete and it is impracticable to modify the contract, the borrower and lender must provide a certification by an engineer or architect that any construction performed complies fully with the plans and specifications; and

(D) The borrower and the contractor must have complied with all statutory and Executive Order requirements related to the Agency guarantee for construction already performed even though the requirements may not have been included in the contract documents.

(4) Refinancing in accordance with ยง 5001.102(d).
