
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### § 5001.121 Eligible uses of loan funds.
####### REAP projects.

(d)Guaranteed loan funds for a Project receiving a loan guarantee under REAP may be used to pay the expenses associated with the items identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (14) of this section, provided such items are directly related to and their use and purpose are limited to the RES, EEI, or EEE project. The expenses associated with the items specified in paragraphs (d)(8) through (11) of this section cannot exceed more than ten percent of the loan amount.

(1) Purchase and installation of new or refurbished RES.

(2) Purchase and installation of energy efficient equipment and systems by eligible agricultural producers.

(3) Construction, retrofitting, replacement, and improvements.

(4) Energy efficiency improvements (EEI) identified by vendor/installer certification or in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit.

(5) Fees for construction permits and licenses, including fees required by an interconnection agreement.

(6) Guarantee fees, as determined under § 5001.454.

(7) Professional service fees and charges related to the project, which may include non-deferred developer fees, provided the Agency approves the amounts as reasonable and customary in the area.

(8) Lender fees, as provided in § 5001.403.

(9) Working capital, which may include interest on interim financing, debt reserves, rent payments, insurance, and packaging and origination fees.

(10) Land acquisition.

(11) Energy assessments, energy audits, technical reports, business plans, and feasibility studies completed and acceptable to the Agency, provided no portion was financed by any other Federal or State grant or payment assistance, including, but not limited to, a REAP energy audit or renewable energy development assistance grant.

(12) For an eligible RES project in which a residence is closely associated with the rural small business or agricultural operation, the installation of a second meter to separate the residence from the portion of the project that benefits the rural small business or agricultural operation, as applicable.

(13) Land, building, and equipment for an existing RES.

(14) Refinancing outstanding debt when-

(i) The original purpose of the debt being refinanced meets the eligible project requirements of § 5001.106, § 5001.107 or § 5001.108, as applicable, of this part;

(ii) Debt being refinanced does not exceed 50 percent of the total use of funds in the new REAP guaranteed loan;

(iii) Refinancing is necessary to improve cash flow and viability of the project;

(iv) At the time of application, the loan being refinanced has been current for at least the past 6 months (unless such status is achieved by the lender forgiving the borrower's debt); and

(v) The lender is providing better rates or terms for the loan being refinanced.
