
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.122 Ineligible uses of loan funds.
####### e.g.,

(f) For loans as specified under CF and WWD, costs normally provided by a business or industrial user (wastewater pretreatment).

(g) For loans as specified under CF and WWD, any portion of the cost of a project that does not serve a rural area.

(h) Rental for the use of equipment or machinery owned by the borrower.

(i) For purposes not directly related to operating and maintaining the project.

(j) Any EEI not identified in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit.

(k) Agricultural tillage equipment, used equipment, and vehicles are ineligible for loans as specified under REAP.

(l) Guaranteed loan funds cannot be used for the distribution or payment to a member of the immediate family of an owner, partner, stockholder, or member of the borrower except for a change in ownership of the business where the selling person does not retain an ownership interest and the Agency determines in writing the price paid to be reasonable based upon an independent appraisal. This prohibition does not apply to transfers of ownership for ESOPs or worker cooperatives, to cooperatives where the cooperative pays the member for product or services, or where member stock is transferred among members of the cooperative in accordance with ยง 5001.140 of this part.

(m) For loans as specified under CF, initial operating expenses, short-term, working capital or operating loans; or annual recurring costs, including purchases or rentals that are generally considered to be operating and maintenance expenses.
