
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.126 Borrower eligibility.
####### B&I loan guarantees.

(d)To be eligible for a loan guarantee under B&I, a borrower must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4), as applicable, of this section.

(1) The borrower must be:

(i) A cooperative, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity organized and operated on a profit or nonprofit basis;

(ii) An Indian Tribe

(iii) A Public Body; or

(iv) An individual.

(2) The borrower must be engaged in or proposing to engage in a business. A business may include manufacturing, wholesaling, retailing, providing services, or other activities that will provide employment or improve the economic or environmental climate in rural communities.

(3) A borrower who is an individual must:

(i) Be a citizen of the United States;

(ii) Reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence and must provide a permanent green card as evidence of eligibility; or

(iii) Be a citizen or resident of the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

(4) A borrower must demonstrate, to the Agency's satisfaction, that guaranteed loan funds will remain in the United States and the Project being financed will primarily create new or save existing jobs for rural U.S. residents.
