
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.132 Maintenance of approved lender status.
####### Revocation of approved status and debarment of lender.

(b)The Agency can revoke a lender's status as an approved lender at any time for cause as specified in the lender's agreement. A decision to revoke a lender's approved status will be made by the Agency and the lender will be notified in writing. Cause for revoking lender status includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the circumstances identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (14) of this section.

(1) Guaranteed loans originated by the lender cause substantial financial loss to the Agency.

(2) Failure to maintain status as an approved lender under the applicable regulations in effect when the lender obtained approved lender status. For lenders approved under this part, this means maintaining compliance with the requirements set forth in ยง 5001.130.

(3) Conviction of the lender or any of its officers for criminal acts in connection with any loan transaction, whether or not the loan was guaranteed by the Agency.

(4) Violation of usury laws in connection with any loan transaction whether or not the loan was guaranteed by the Agency.

(5) Negligent loan origination.

(6) Knowingly submitting false information when requesting a loan guarantee or basing a loan guarantee request on information known to be false or which the lender should have known to be false.

(7) Failure to correct any Agency-cited deficiency in loan documents in a timely manner.

(8) Failure to provide for adequate construction planning and monitoring in connection with any guaranteed loan to ensure that the project will be completed with the available funds.

(9) Negligent loan servicing.

(10) Failure to obtain and maintain the required collateral for any guaranteed loan.

(11) Using guaranteed loan funds for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in the conditional commitment or amendment thereof.

(12) Violation of any term of the lender's agreement.

(13) Failure to submit reports required by the Agency in a timely manner.
