
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.130 Lender eligibility requirements.
####### Renewals.

(4)To maintain its status as an approved lender, the non-regulated lending entity serving tribal trust land must submit a request to the Agency for renewal of its approved lender status at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of the existing lender's agreement to be assured of a timely renewal. The lender must provide in this written request the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (iii) through (v) of this section; and

(i) A written update of any change in the persons designated to process and service Agency guaranteed loans or change in the operating methods used in the processing and servicing of loans since the original or last renewal date of lender status.

(ii) A description of how the lender is complying with each of the required criteria described in (c)(1) of this section and ยง 5001.501.

(iii) A new executed lender's agreement.

(iv) The Agency may require lenders with limited guaranteed loan activity over the previous five years, or a lender that has originated guaranteed loans with servicing issues or a loss to the Agency, to resubmit all information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(e) Previously approved lenders. Lenders that have been previously approved by the Agency under one of the guaranteed loan programs identified in ยง 5001.1(b)(1) through (4) of this part cannot originate new guaranteed loans after the effective date of this rule unless the lender is approved under the applicable conditions of paragraphs (a) through (d), as applicable, of this section.
