
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### § 5001.140 Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
####### Cooperative stock purchase program.

(a)The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of cooperative stock by individual farmers or ranchers in a farmer or rancher cooperative established for the purpose of processing an agricultural commodity. The cooperative may contract for services to process agricultural commodities or otherwise process value-added agricultural products during the five-year period beginning on the operation startup date of the cooperative in order to provide adequate time for the planning and construction of the processing facility of the cooperative.

(1) The proceeds from the stock sale may be used to recapitalize, to develop a new processing facility or product line, or to expand an existing production facility. Guaranteed loan funds must remain in the cooperative from which stock was purchased, and the cooperative must not reinvest those funds into another entity.

(2) The maximum guaranteed loan amount is $600,000 and all applications will be processed in accordance with §§ 5001.301 through 5001.303, 5001.306, 5001.315, and 5001.318 of this part, as applicable.

(3) The maximum term of the guaranteed loan is seven years when the proceeds from the stock sale are used by the cooperative to recapitalize or are used for working capital. The maximum term allowable for final guaranteed loan maturity is limited to the justified useful life of the assets the cooperative purchases with the proceeds of the stock sale not to exceed 40 years or applicable State statutory limitations, whichever is less.

(4) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or any other right or ability necessary to liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a default by the borrower.

(5) The lender must complete a written credit evaluation of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit evaluation of the cooperative prior to making its first stock purchase loan.

(6) The borrower may provide financial information in the manner that is generally required by commercial agricultural lenders.

(7) A feasibility study of the cooperative is required for startup cooperatives and may be required by the Agency for existing cooperatives when the cooperative's operations will be significantly affected by the proceeds that were generated from the stock sale.

(8) The Agency will conduct an appropriate environmental review on the processing facility and will not process individual applications for the purchase of stock until the environmental review on the cooperative processing facility is completed.
