
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### ยง 5001.140 Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
####### Cooperative equity security guarantees.

(c)The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity issued by a cooperative or may guarantee loans to a fund that invests primarily in cooperatives. In either case, the project must significantly benefit one or more entities eligible for assistance under B&I guaranteed loans.

(1) "Similar equity" is any special class of equity stock that is available for purchase by non-members and/or members and lacks voting and other governance rights.

(2) A fund that invests "primarily" in cooperatives is determined by its percentage share of investments in and loans to cooperatives. A fund portfolio must have at least 50 percent of its loans and investments in cooperatives to be considered eligible for loan guarantees for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity.

(3) The principal amount of the guaranteed loan cannot exceed $10 million.

(4) The maximum term of the guaranteed loan is seven years when the proceeds are used by the cooperative for working capital and;

(i) In all other cases the maximum term of the guaranteed loan is equal to the lesser of the following but not exceeding 40 years:

(ii) The justified useful life of the funded project assets,

(iii) The maximum term under any applicable State statute; or

(iv) The specified holding period for redemption as stated by the stock offering.

(5) All borrowers purchasing preferred stock or similar equity must provide documentation of the terms of the offering that includes compliance with State and Federal securities laws and financial information about the issuer of the preferred stock to both the lender and the Agency.

(6) Issuer(s) of preferred stock must be a cooperative organization and must be able to issue preferred stock to the public that, if required, complies with State and Federal securities laws.

(7) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the preferred stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a default by a borrower. For the purpose of recovering losses from guaranteed loan defaults, lenders may take ownership of all equities purchased with such loans, including additional shares derived from reinvestment of dividends.

(8) Shares of preferred stock that are purchased with guaranteed loan funds cannot be converted to common or voting stock.

(9) In the absence of adequate provisions for investors' rights to early redemption of preferred stock or similar equity, a borrower must request from a cooperative or fund issuing such equities a contingent waiver of the holding or redemption period in advance of share purchases. This contingent waiver provides that in the event a default by a borrower on a B&I guaranteed loan, the borrower waives any ownership rights in the stock, and the lender and Agency will then have the right to redeem the stock.

(10) Guaranteed loans for the purchase of preferred stock must be prepaid in the event a cooperative that issued the stock exercises an early redemption. If the cooperative enters into bankruptcy, to the extent the cooperative can redeem the preferred stock, the Borrower is required to repay the guaranteed loan from the redemption of the stock.
