
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart B - Eligibility Provisions
###### § 5001.140 Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
####### Employee ownership succession.

(d)The Agency may guarantee loans for conversions of businesses to either cooperatives or ESOP within five years from the date of initial transfer of stock.

(1) The maximum loan amount is $600,000 and all applications will be processed in accordance with §§ 5001.301 through 5001.303, 5001.306, 5001.315, and 5001.318 of this part, as applicable.

(2) The maximum term is 10 years.

(3) The lender must, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a default by a borrower.

(4) The lender must complete a written credit evaluation of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit evaluation of the cooperative or ESOP prior to making its first stock purchase loan.

(5) If a cooperative is organized, each selling owner becomes a member with special control rights to protect their stake in the business while a succession plan is implemented. At the completion of the stock transfer, selling owners may retain their membership in the cooperative provided that their control rights are the same as all other members. Any special covenants that selling owners may have held must be extinguished upon completion of the transfer.

(6) If an ESOP is organized for transferring ownership to employees, selling owner(s) may not retain ownership in the business after five years from the date of the initial transfer of stock.
