
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart C - Orgination Provisions
###### ยง 5001.202 Lender's credit evaluation
####### Character.

(1)Those qualities that generally impel the borrower to meet its obligations as demonstrated by its credit history, including project and borrower debt structure and debt repayment ability. When applicable, an evaluation may include the character of persons with management control or a 20 percent or more ownership interest in the borrower. When the borrower's credit history or character is negative, the lender will provide satisfactory explanations to indicate that any problems are unlikely to recur. The ownership or membership structure of the project and borrower (including membership, sponsors, other equity investors), and the historical performance and experience of ownership and management specific to the project and industry. The historical performance and experience of any entities providing management or administrative services pursuant to contract should also be evaluated. For CF projects the commitment of the rural community or rural area to be served by the project should be evaluated. Borrower's management, and its for-profit, non-profit or governing board, as applicable, will be evaluated to ensure key management personnel are adequately trained and experienced.
