
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart C - Orgination Provisions
###### ยง 5001.202 Lender's credit evaluation
####### Collateral.

(4)This criterion refers to the security pledged for the guaranteed loan. The lender is responsible for obtaining and maintaining proper and adequate collateral for the guaranteed loan. All collateral must secure the entire guaranteed loan. The lender is prohibited from taking separate collateral for the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the guaranteed loan or requiring compensating balances or certificates of deposit as a means of eliminating the lender's exposure on the unguaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan. Collateral can include, but is not limited to: General obligation bonds; revenue bonds; pledges of taxes or assessments; assignments of facility revenue and byproduct revenue, as well as other assets such as land, easements, rights-of-way, water rights, buildings, machinery, equipment, inventory; accounts receivable, other accounts, contracts, cash, assignments of leases and leasehold interests. Intangible assets may serve as collateral, provided they do not serve as primary collateral. For purposes of determining compliance with this requirement, leasehold improvements such as buildings and other structures on leased property are considered tangible assets and can serve as primary collateral. It is the lender's responsibility to obtain, document, file, record and take all actions necessary to properly perfect and maintain adequate collateral to protect the interests of the lender and the Agency.

(i) The lender must determine the market value of collateral as established by an appraisal in accordance with ยง 5001.203.
