
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.303 Applications for loan guarantee.
####### Content.

(b)Lenders must provide an analysis of the scope of the project in relation to the borrower's overall operations. The application and lender's analysis should be supported by adequate documentation as applicable to the project and as listed in paragraph (c) of this section. The Agency reserves the right to request additional documentation to support the funding request. All complete applications must contain at a minimum:

(1) Agency-approved application form or system that includes all items noted in this section;

(2) Credit evaluation (conforming to ยง 5001.202).

(3) Environmental information required by the Agency to conduct its environmental reviews (as specified in ยง 5001.207(a)(2)(i)).

(4) Required financial statements including:

(i) Current Agency-acceptable balance sheet and year-to-date income statements of the borrower, and any guarantor(s) dated within 90 days of submission of the complete application;

(ii) Agency-acceptable historical balance sheet, income statements, and cash flow statements of the borrower for the lesser of the last three fiscal years or all years of operation; and

(iii) Projected balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements or a financial model starting from the current financial statements through a minimum of two years of the project performing at full operational capacity or stable operations. Based on the type of project or at the discretion of the Agency, financial projections or models may be required from current financial statements up to the end of the term of the guaranteed loan. Financial projections must be supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. Projected financial statements must include a pro forma balance sheet projected for guaranteed loan closing.

(iv) The Agency may request additional financial statements, financial models, cash flow information, updated financial statements, and other related financial information to determine the financial feasibility of a project and evaluate the credit underwriting of borrower, its affiliates, and any guarantors.

(5) Identify whether or not the borrower has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, identify each Agency employee with whom the borrower has a known relationship.

(6) At the time of the loan application, the lender must submit its loan classification and credit risk rating classification scale.
