
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.304 Specific application requirements for CF projects.

In addition to the requirements specified in ยง 5001.303 as applicable, a lender seeking a loan guarantee for a CF project must submit a financial feasibility report prepared by a qualified firm or individual acceptable to the Agency. All projects financed under this section must meet the financial feasibility requirements of this section and must be based on projected taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, or other sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for project operation and maintenance, debt payments, and compliance with lender reserve requirements, when applicable. Other sources of revenue or existence of payment guarantors are particularly important in considering the feasibility of eligible recreation projects. The financial feasibility report must take into consideration any interest rate adjustment that may be instituted under the terms of the promissory note. Financial projections for projects that are assisted living facilities, skilled nursing facilities, or similar types of eligible residential facilities must be based on no more than 90 percent occupancy. Utility projects dependent on user fees for debt repayment shall base their income and expense forecast on user estimates supported by either a state statute or local ordinance requiring mandatory hookup or signed and enforceable user agreements. If the primary use of the essential community facility is by a business and the success or failure of the facility is dependent on that business, then the economic viability of that business must also be assessed. For projects that include the purchase and installation of RES that meet the eligibility requirements of ยง 5001.103(a)(8), a technical report on the RES as outlined in ยง 5001.307(e)(1) and (2), as applicable, will be included with the applicable financial feasibility report. The type of financial feasibility report required will depend upon the size of the guaranteed loan, the collateral o securing the guaranteed loan, and the financial history of the borrower. The two types of financial feasibility report and when they are required are described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
