
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.302 Preliminary eligibility review.
####### Contents.

(a)Except as otherwise indicated, each request for a preliminary eligibility review must contain the material identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. This information may be submitted in a narrative format or utilizing the lender's preliminary lender's analysis or preliminary credit memo.

(1) Regardless of format, the lenders must provide the following information:

(i) Name of the proposed borrower and co-borrower(s) as applicable, organization type, address, contact person, email address, and telephone number;

(ii) Name of the proposed lender, address, telephone number, contact person, email address;

(iii) Amount of the guaranteed loan request; and if known, the percentage of guarantee requested; the proposed rates and terms of the guaranteed loan; and the source(s) of other funding;

(iv) If known, a description of collateral to be offered with estimated value(s), identity of guarantors, and the amount and source of equity, other capital, and matching funds to be contributed to the project; and

(v) A brief description of the project, its location, products or services provided, service area, and, as applicable, availability of raw materials and supplies.

(2) Sufficient information and documentation to enable the Agency to assess borrower, lender, and project eligibility, including summaries or spreadsheets of financial statements or audits, relationships and identity of any affiliates; and copies of organizational documents, organizational charts, and existing debt instruments.

(3) For REAP projects:

(i) Borrower information as outlined in ยง 5001.307(a) and (b), and project information as outlined in ยง 5001.307(c).

(ii) For REAP RES projects where a residence is located at or is closely associated with and shares an energy metering devise with a rural small business or agricultural operation, demonstration that 50 percent or greater of the energy to be generated by the RES will benefit the rural small business or agricultural operation.
