
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.304 Specific application requirements for CF projects.
####### Financial feasibility analysis.

(a)The financial feasibility analysis will be prepared by a qualified firm or individual who may be the lender. Financial feasibility analysis requirements are outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part. The lender's credit evaluation may serve as the financial feasibility analysis provided it includes the items outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part. A financial feasibility analysis will be required if any of the following circumstances exist:

(1) Guaranteed loans of $25 million or less to existing community facilities;

(2) Guaranteed loans secured by a general obligation bond, or other tax supported income sufficient to pay the debt service for the life of the loan; or

(3) Borrowers with audited financial statements, if the last three years indicate the ability to pay all existing and new debt service.

(4) The Agency may require a Feasibility Study when the lender's analysis, borrower's business plan, or project information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility, market feasibility, or economic viability of the project.

(i) For guaranteed loans greater than $1,000,000.00 to a new entity or an entity conducting a new activity, a feasibility study prepared by an independent qualified consultant acceptable to the Agency is required. The scope of the feasibility study will be determined by the Agency and is dependent on the complexity of the project and the borrower.

(ii) For loans of $1,000,000.00 or less to new and existing entities, the Agency may require a feasibility study when the lender's analysis or other borrower information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility or economic viability of the project, or if the project will significantly affect the operations of a borrower who is an existing entity and its historic cash flow.
