
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### § 5001.303 Applications for loan guarantee.
####### Provisional content.

(c)The following items may also be required based on the type of project being financed or if deficiencies exist in the credit evaluation and more information is needed to adequately determine risk:

(1) For all applications of $600,000 or greater, a draft loan agreement for the guaranteed loan.

(2) Appraisals in accordance with § 5001.203.

(3) Current credit reports or the equivalent on the borrower, any payment guarantors and any person or entity owning greater than a 20 percent or more interest in the borrower or controls the borrower, except for passive investors and those corporations listed on a major stock exchange. A credit report or its equivalent are not required for elected and appointed officials when the borrower is a public body, or Indian Tribe, or for members of a non-profit organization. Credit reports must be submitted to the Agency for all applications for guaranteed loans in the amount of $200,000 or more. For lenders that are submitting smaller requests, the lender must keep the credit report on file with the lender's application.

(4) Feasibility study: If the Agency is unable to determine a basis for successful repayment of a guaranteed loan based on the documentation and analysis of the five feasibility study components provided in the lender's analysis, borrower's business plan, or other project information, or if the proposed project will have significant impacts on existing operations, the Agency may require an independent feasibility study. The elements of an acceptable feasibility study may vary by project scope and should be prepared by a qualified, independent third party using applicable elements of the project, including but not limited to those outlined in appendix A to subpart D of this part.

(5) Intergovernmental consultation comments in accordance with 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, or successor regulation, unless exemptions have been granted by the State's single point of contact.

(6) Engineering documentation.

(7) Architectural reports.

(8) Energy audits or energy assessments in accordance with § 5001.107.

(9) Energy efficient equipment and systems data in accordance with § 5001.108.

(10) Business plan: Unless the information is contained in the feasibility study or in the credit evaluation, a business plan should be submitted to show how the project will operate and remain viable. This requirement may be omitted when guaranteed loan funds are used exclusively for debt refinancing.

(11) If the application is for five or more residential units, including nursing homes and assisted-living centers, an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan that is in conformance with 7 CFR 1901.203(c)(3).

(12) If the application is for financing of health care facilities, a certificate of need, if required by Federal or State law.

(13) Department of Labor form as noted in § 5001.306(a)(1).

(14) Pro-forma balance sheet for closing as noted in § 5001.306(a)(2).

(15) SEC Form 10-K as noted in § 5001.306(a)(4).

(16) Technical reports in accordance with § 5001.307(e).

(17) Certification regarding credit elsewhere in accordance with § 5001.126(b)(3) and (c)(2).

(18) Certification of significant community support in accordance with § 5001.126(b)(4) and (c)(3).

(19) Copies of organizational documents if not already provided with a preliminary eligibility review in accordance with § 5001.302.
