
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.306 Specific application requirements for B&I projects.
####### Applications requesting a guaranteed loan in an amount greater than $600,000.

(a)(1) The Agency is required to submit project information to the United States Department of Labor for their concurrence if the proposed guaranteed loan is in excess of $1,000,000.00 and will increase direct employment by more than 50 employees. The lender must provide sufficient project and demographic information to the Agency for completion of a Department of Labor review.

(2) A pro forma balance sheet projected for loan closing.

(3) The Agency may require a Feasibility Study when the lender's analysis, borrower's business plan, or project information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility, market feasibility, or economic viability of the project.

(i) For guaranteed loans greater than $1,000,000.00 to a new business, a feasibility study prepared by an independent qualified consultant acceptable to the Agency is required. The scope of the feasibility study will be determined by the Agency and is dependent on the complexity of the project and the borrower.

(ii) For loans of $1,000,000.00 or less to new and existing businesses, the Agency may require a feasibility study when the lender's analysis or other borrower information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility or economic viability of the project, or if the project will significantly affect the operations of a borrower who is an existing business and its historic cash flow.

(iii) A technical report is required for RES identified in ยง 5001.307(e) and for projects utilizing other integrated processing equipment and systems. The contents of the technical report must be consistent with the requirements of ยง 5001.307(e)(1) and must provide sufficient detail to enable the Agency to determine technical merit. The report can be provided in the technical feasibility section of a feasibility study or in a separate technical report.

(4) For companies listed on a major stock exchange or subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, a copy of their most recent SEC Form 10-K, "Annual Report Pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."

(5) Current financial statements of affiliates.
