
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.307 Specific application requirements for REAP projects.
####### Project information.

(c)Provide information concerning the project as a whole and its relationship to the borrower's operations, including:

(1) Identification as to whether the project is an RES, EEI, or EEE project. Include a description and the location of the project;

(2) Description of how the project will have a positive effect on resource conservation, public health, and the environment;

(3) Identification of the amount of funds and the source(s) of funds the borrower is proposing to use for the project. Provide written commitments for funds at the time the application is submitted to receive points under this scoring criterion.

(i) For project funding provided by the borrower, documentation may include bank statements that demonstrates availability of funds.

(ii) For project funding that comes from a third party, a commitment letter signed by an authorized official of the third party. The letter must be specific to the project and must identify the dollar amount of any loan or other funding and any applicable rates and terms. If the third-party commitment is for a loan, the commitment must be firm; a letter-of-intent or pre-qualification letter subject to underwriting requirements or contingencies is not acceptable.
