
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.315 Application evaluation and award provisions.
####### Funding selected applications.

(d)Each program identified in ยง 5001.1 will consider applications for funding in the order they are received by the Agency. If the Agency approves the application and guaranteed funds are available, the Agency will issue a conditional commitment to the lender in accordance with ยง 5001.451 of subpart E. In the event total loan requests exceed the amount of funding available the applications will be ranked for priority by each program. As applications are funded, the remaining guaranteed loan funding authority may be insufficient to fund the next highest scoring application or applications (where two or more applications receive the same priority score). The Agency will use the procedures described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section as often as necessary to consider all applications as appropriate.

(1) If the remaining funds are insufficient to fund the next highest scoring application completely, the Agency will notify the lender and offer the lender the opportunity to accept the remaining funds. If the lender does not accept the offer, the Agency will process the next highest scoring application.

(2) If the remaining funds are insufficient to fund each application that receives the same priority score, the Agency will notify each lender and offer the lenders the opportunity to accept a prorated share of the remaining funds.

(3) Any lender offered less than the full amount requested under either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section can either accept the funds available or request to compete in the next funding cycle. There is no assurance that the application(s) will be funded in a subsequent funding cycle.

(4) If a lender agrees to the lower loan guarantee amount offered by the Agency under either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, the lender must certify that the purpose(s) of the project can still be met at the lower funding level and must provide documentation that the borrower has obtained the remaining funds needed to complete the Project as originally proposed.
