
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.317 WWD project priority points system.
####### Other priorities.

(d)Applications are eligible for points under each of the following priorities:

(1) If the proposed project will merge ownership, management, and operation of smaller facilities providing for more efficient management and economical service, 10 points will be awarded.

(2) If the proposed project will enlarge, extend, or otherwise modify existing facilities to provide service to additional rural areas, 10 points will be awarded.

(3) If the applicant is a public body or Indian tribe, 5 points will be awarded;

(4) If the amount funds committed to the project from sources other than Rural Development is:

(i) 50 percent or more, 15 points will be awarded;

(ii) 20 percent to 49 percent, 10 points will be awarded;

(iii) 5 percent to 19 percent, 5 points will be awarded;

(5) If the project will serve Agency identified target areas, 5 points will be awarded;

(6) If the project primarily recycles solid waste products thereby limiting the need for solid waste disposal, 5 points will be awarded; and

(7) If the project will serve an area that has an unreliable quality or supply of drinking water, 10 points will be awarded.

(e) In certain cases, the approval official may award up to 15 points to a project. The points may be awarded to projects in order to improve compatibility and coordination between WWD and other agencies' selection systems, to ensure effective RUS fund utilization, and to assist those projects that are the most cost effective. A written justification must be prepared and placed in the project file each time these points are assigned.
