
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### ยง 5001.319 REAP project priority point system.
####### Administrator priority points.

(g)Under this criterion, the Administrator may award up to 10 points to an application based on the conditions specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section. Under no circumstances will an application receive more than 10 points under this criterion.

(1) The application is for an under-represented technology.

(2) Selecting the application helps achieve geographic diversity.

(3) The borrower is a member of an unserved or under-served population.

(i) The borrower is a veteran or veterans own 20 percent or more in interest in the borrower. In order to receive points, the borrower must sign a certification in its application to indicate that the borrower has veteran status; or

(ii) The borrower is a member of a socially disadvantaged group or members of socially disadvantaged group(s) own 20 percent or more in interest in the borrower socially disadvantaged groups are groups whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. In order to receive points, the application must include a statement to indicate that borrower is a member of a socially disadvantaged group.

(4) Selecting the application helps further a Presidential initiative or a Secretary of Agriculture priority.

(5) The proposed project is located in a federally declared disaster area. Declarations must be within the last 3 calendar years.

(6) The project is located in an area where 20 percent or more of its population is living in poverty, as defined by the United States Census Bureau; an underserved community; or an area which has experienced long-term population decline, or loss of employment.
