
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### Appendix C to Subpart D of Part 5001 - Technical Reports for Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Projects With Total Project Costs of More Than $80,000

For all EEI projects with Total Project Costs of more than $80,000, provide the information specified in Sections A and D and in Section B or Section C, as applicable. If the application is for an EEI project with Total Project Costs of $80,000 or less, please see ยง 5001.307 (e) for the technical report information to be submitted with your application.

If the application is for an EEI project with Total Project Costs of $200,000 and greater, you must conduct an Energy Audit (EA). However, if the application is for an EEI project with a Total Project Costs of less than $200,000, you may conduct either an Energy Assessment or an Energy Audit. Energy Audits that meet the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHREA) Level II Energy Survey; Analysis and American National Standards Institute (ANSI); or American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE)_S162 Standard for performing on farm Energy Audits will be considered by the Agency to be acceptable audits.

Describe how all the improvements to or replacement of an existing building and/or equipment meet the requirements of being Commercially Available. Describe how the design, engineering, testing, and monitoring are sufficient to demonstrate that the proposed project will meet its intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. Describe how all equipment required for the EEI(s) is available and able to be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule. In addition, present information regarding component warranties and the availability of spare parts.

If conducting an EA, provide the following information.
