
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart D - Guarantee Application Provisions
###### Appendix E to Subpart D of Part 5001 - Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of $200,000 and Greater

Provide the information specified in Sections A through G for each technical report prepared under this appendix. Provide the resource assessment under Section C that is applicable to the project. For hybrid projects, technical reports must be prepared for each technology that comprises the hybrid project.

Describe the project team, their professional credentials, and relevant experience. The description shall support that the project team key service providers have the necessary professional credentials, licenses, certifications, and relevant experience to develop the proposed project.

Describe the necessary agreements and permits (including any for local zoning requirements) required for the project and the anticipated schedule for securing those agreements and permits. For example, Interconnection Agreements and Power Purchase Agreements are necessary for all Renewable Energy projects electrically interconnected to the utility grid.

Describe the quality and availability of the renewable resource and the amount of Renewable Energy generated through the deployment of the proposed system. For all Bioenergy Projects, except Anaerobic Digesters Projects, complete Section C.3 of this appendix. For Anaerobic Digester Projects, complete Section C.6 of this appendix.
