
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart E - Loan and Guarantee Provisions
###### Loan Provisions
####### ยง 5001.408 Participation or assignment of guaranteed loan.
######## Promissory note(s).

(d)A loan note guarantee is issued to the lender for a specific promissory note(s) executed between the lender and the borrower. The lender must retain title to and possession of the guaranteed promissory note(s), retain the lender's interest in the collateral, and retain the servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan. The lender is prohibited from issuing any additional promissory notes at a later date for the same guaranteed loan.

(1) The lender may assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan, including interest strips, to one or more holders by using an assignment guarantee agreement for each holder. The lender must complete and execute the assignment guarantee agreement and return it to the Agency for execution prior to holder execution.

(2) The lender or holder may request a certificate of incumbency and signature from the Agency.

(3) A holder, upon written notice to the lender and the Agency, may reassign the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan, in full, assigned under the assignment guarantee agreement. Holders can only reassign the complete block they have received and cannot subdivide or further split their interest in the guaranteed portion of a loan or retain an interest strip.

(4) Upon notification and completion of the assignment through the use of the assignment guarantee agreement, the assignee succeeds to all rights and obligations of the holder thereunder. Subsequent assignments require notice to the lender and Agency using any format, including that used by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (formerly known as the Bond Market Association), together with the transfer of the original assignment guarantee agreement.

(5) The Agency will not execute a new assignment guarantee agreement to affect a subsequent reassignment.

(6) The Agency will not reissue a duplicate assignment guarantee agreement unless:

(i) The original was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced; and

(ii) The reissue is made in accordance with ยง 5001.459.
