
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart E - Loan and Guarantee Provisions
###### Guarantee Provisions
####### ยง 5001.450 General.
######## Conditions of guarantee.

(b)A guaranteed loan under this part will be evidenced by a loan note guarantee issued by the Agency.

(1) The entire loan must be secured by the same collateral with equal lien priority for the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan. The unguaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan will neither be paid first nor given any preference or priority over the guaranteed portion. A parity or junior lien position in the guaranteed loan collateral may be considered on a case-by-case basis and must be approved by the Agency.

(2) The lender must remain mortgagee and secured party of record notwithstanding the fact that another party may hold a portion of the guaranteed loan.

(3) The lender will receive all payments of principal and interest on account of the entire guaranteed loan and must promptly remit to each holder and participant, if any, its pro rata share of any payment within 30 days of the lender's receipt thereof from the borrower. Holder or participant payments are determined according to their respective interest in the guaranteed loan, less only the lender's servicing fee.

(4) Any claim against a loan note guarantee or assignment guarantee agreement that is attached to, or relating to, a promissory note that provides for payment of interest-on-interest, default charges, penalty interest, or late payment fees will be reduced to remove such interest, fees and charges.

(5) The loan note guarantee is unenforceable by the lender to the extent that any loss is occasioned by:

(i) The violation of usury laws;

(ii) Use of guaranteed loan funds for unauthorized loan purposes in accordance with ยง 5001.122 or to the extent that those funds are used for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in its conditional commitment or amendment thereof;

(iii) Failure to obtain, perfect, document, and or maintain the required collateral or security position regardless of the time at which the Agency acquires knowledge thereof; and

(iv) Negligent loan origination or negligent loan servicing as determined and documented by the Agency.

(6) The Agency will guarantee payment as follows:

(i) To any holder, 100 percent of any loss sustained by the holder on the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan it owns and on interest due (as determined under paragraph (g) of this section) on such portion less any outstanding servicing fee.

(ii) To the lender: Any loss sustained by the lender on the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan, including principal and interest (as determined under paragraph (c) of this section) evidenced by the promissory note(s) or assumption agreements entered into in connection with an Agency approved transfer and assumption, and secured advances for protection and preservation of collateral made with the Agency's authorization if applicable.
