
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart E - Loan and Guarantee Provisions
###### Guarantee Provisions
####### ยง 5001.451 Conditional commitment.
######## Acceptance or withdrawal of conditional commitment.

(d)The lender and borrower must complete and sign the conditional commitment and return a copy to the Agency within 60 days. If the conditional commitment is not accepted by both the lender and borrower within 60 days, the conditional commitment becomes null and void and the Agency will withdraw the conditional commitment and de-obligate the associated funds.

(e) Modification, and expiration of conditional commitment. The conditional commitment issued by the Agency will be effective for a period of one year or sufficient time to complete the guaranteed loan project prior to loan closing. The lender must submit a written request to the Agency to extend the conditional commitment at least 30 days prior to its expiration date and obtain Agency approval for the extension. The Agency will consider this request only if no material adverse changes in the borrower or the borrower's financial condition have occurred since issuance of the conditional commitment. If a conditional commitment expires, the Agency will notify the lender in writing and may de-obligate the funds. Any additions or modifications to conditions stated in the original conditional commitment must be agreed upon between the lender, the borrower, and the Agency.
