
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart E - Loan and Guarantee Provisions
###### Guarantee Provisions
####### ยง 5001.450 General.
######## Accrued interest payments.

(c)If a loan has been guaranteed by the Agency prior to October 1, 2020, the Agency will guarantee the lender and any holders accrued interest in accordance with the applicable regulations in effect for the respective program at the time the loan was guaranteed. For all guaranteed loans closed on or after October 1, 2020, the Agency will guarantee accrued interest in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) or (2), as applicable, of this section.

(1) If the lender owns all or a portion of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan or makes a protective advance, the Agency, in its sole discretion, may cover interest on the guaranteed portion for the 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date, and up to a total of 180 days, only if:

(i) The lender, and not the Agency, has repurchased all holder interests in the guaranteed loan in accordance with ยง 5001.511;

(ii) The lender is actively engaged in a credit resolution with the borrower to bring the account current or fully liquidate the collateral under the terms of a liquidation plan approved by the Agency; and

(iii) Concurrence for inclusion of the extended period of interest to the lender is received from the Agency.

(2) If the guaranteed loan has one or more holders, the lender will issue an interest termination letter to each holder establishing the termination date for interest accrual. The loan note guarantee will not cover interest to any holder accruing after 90 days from the date of the interest termination letter. The Agency at its sole discretion may notify each holder of the interest termination provisions if it is determined that lender correspondence to holders is in-adequate.
