
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart E - Loan and Guarantee Provisions
###### Guarantee Provisions
####### ยง 5001.452 Loan closing and conditions precedent to issuance of loan note guarantee.
######## 2

() The borrower meets the eligibility requirements as outlined in ยง 5001.126(a) and (b) through (e), as applicable.

(E) There is a reasonable prospect that the guaranteed loan and other project debt will be repaid on time and in full (including interest) from project cash flow according to the terms proposed in the application.

(F) The guaranteed loan has been properly closed, and the required security instruments have been properly executed and all security interests obtained by the lender have been or will be properly perfected in accordance with applicable law.

(G) All planned property acquisition has been or will be completed; all development has been or will be substantially completed in accordance with plans and specifications and conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local codes; all equipment required for the project is available, can be procured and delivered within the project development schedule, and will be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements; and costs have not exceeded the amount approved by the lender and the Agency.

(H) The proposed project complies with all current Federal, State, and local laws and regulatory rules that affect the project, the borrower, and lender activities, including, but not limited to, equal opportunity and Fair Housing Act requirements and design and construction requirements.

(I) Lender-required insurances are in effect.

(J) All truth-in-lending and equal credit opportunity requirements have been met.

(K) The borrower has marketable title to the collateral then owned by the borrower, subject to the rights of the guaranteed loan and to any other exceptions approved in writing by the Agency.

(L) Where required, necessary or prudent, the borrower has obtained-
