
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart E - Loan and Guarantee Provisions
###### Guarantee Provisions
####### ยง 5001.452 Loan closing and conditions precedent to issuance of loan note guarantee.
######## 2

() A title opinion or title insurance showing the borrower has good and marketable title to the real property and other collateral and fully addressing all existing mortgages or other lien defects, restrictions or encumbrances. In those cases where there is adequate gap coverage, a title commitment may be acceptable.

(M) All project funds have been or will be disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the conditional commitment (or Agency-approved amendment thereof) and the application submitted to the Agency. Appropriate lender controls were used to ensure that all funds were properly disbursed, including funds for working capital. A copy of a settlement statement by the lender detailing the use of loan and matching/equity funds must be attached to support this certification.

(N) When applicable, the entire amount of the loan for working capital or initial operating expenses have been disbursed to the borrower, except in cases where the Agency has approved disbursement over an extended period of time and funds are escrowed so that the settlement statement reflects the full amount to be disbursed.

(O) When required, personal and/or corporate guarantees have been obtained in accordance with ยง 5001.204 of this part.

(P) Lien priorities are consistent with the requirements of the conditional commitment. No claims or liens of laborers, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, materialmen, or other parties have been filed against the collateral and no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the collateral.

(Q) Neither the lender nor any of the lender's officers has an ownership interest in the borrower or is an officer or director of the borrower, and neither the borrower nor its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a 5 percent ownership interest in the lender.

(R) The loan agreement includes all borrower compliance measures identified in the Agency's environmental review for avoiding or reducing adverse environmental impacts of the project's construction or operation.

(S) The lender will comply with the requirements of the Debt Collection Improvement Act.

(T) The lender has executed and delivered the lender's agreement, completed registration in the Agency's electronic reporting system, and electronically submitted the closing report for the guaranteed loan along with the appropriate guarantee fee.

(U) For all RES and EEI projects, the lender must provide certification that the project has been performing at a steady state operating level in accordance with the technical requirements, plans, and specifications. Any modification to the 30-day steady state operating level requirement will be based on the Agency's review of the technical report or vendor certification and will be incorporated into the conditional commitment.

(V) For CF and WWD projects, the lender must also certify that the lender would not make the loan without an Agency loan guarantee.

(c) For RES projects where applicable, the lender must provide to the Agency a copy of the executed power purchase agreement.

(d)(1) For all CF projects before the Agency will issue a loan note guarantee on a guaranteed loan to a borrower other than a public body, the articles of incorporation or other organizing documents of the borrower or the loan agreement must include a condition similar to the following:

(2) If the corporation dissolves or ceases to perform the community facility objectives and functions, the board of directors shall distribute all business property and assets to one or more nonprofit corporations or public bodies. This distribution must be approved by 75 percent of the users or members and must serve the public welfare of the community. The assets may not be distributed to any members, directors, stockholders, or others having a financial or managerial interest in the corporation. Nothing herein shall prohibit the corporation from paying its debts.

(e) For all B&I projects a borrower whose project involves locally or regionally produced agricultural food products and is not located in a rural area must include in an appropriate agreement with retail and institutional facilities to which the borrower sells locally or regionally produced agricultural food products a requirement to inform consumers of the retail or institutional facilities that the consumers are purchasing or consuming locally or regionally produced agricultural food products.
