
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart F - Servicing Provisions
###### ยง 5001.501 General.

The lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and taking all servicing actions that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The lender must certify that it will service the guaranteed loan in accordance with this part, its loan servicing policies and procedures, and the lender's agreement. Where a lender's loan servicing policies and procedures address a corresponding requirement in this part or in the lender's agreement, the lender must comply the corresponding requirement in this part, unless otherwise approved by the Agency.

(a) A lender's servicing responsibilities include, but are not limited to,

(1) Periodic borrower visits;

(2) Distribution of guaranteed loan funds;

(3) Collecting payments on guaranteed loans;

(4) Ensuring compliance with the covenants and provisions in the loan agreement, security instruments, and other supplemental agreements relating to the guaranteed loan;

(5) Obtaining and analyzing financial statements;

(6) Ensuring payment of taxes and insurance premiums;

(7) Maintaining liens and lien priority on collateral;

(8) Keeping an inventory of all collateral items, and reconciling the inventory of all collateral sold during guaranteed loan servicing, including liquidation;

(9) Obtaining Agency approvals or concurrence as required; and

(10) Cooperating fully with all oversight and monitoring efforts of the Agency or its representatives as specified in ยง 5001.502.

(b) The lender must remain mortgagee and secured party of record, notwithstanding the fact that another party may hold a portion of the loan.

(c) The lender must ensure that the borrower has obtained and will maintain all necessary insurance coverage appropriate to the proposed project.

(d) If the Agency determines that the lender is not in compliance with its servicing responsibilities, the Agency reserves the right to take any action the Agency determines necessary to protect the Agency's interests with respect to the guaranteed loan. If the Agency exercises this right, the lender must cooperate with the Agency to rectify the situation.
