
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart F - Servicing Provisions
###### ยง 5001.506 Loan transfers and assumptions.
####### Agency approval.

(c)The Agency will only approve a transfer and assumption if the transferee will continue the eligible purpose of the guaranteed loan and such transfer and assumption complies with the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.

(1) Whenever the transferor and transferee are affiliates or related parties, the transfer and assumption must:

(i) Be to an eligible borrower to continue the project for eligible purposes;

(ii) Transfer all the loan collateral; and

(iii) Be for the full amount of the guaranteed loan indebtedness.

(2) A transfer and assumption may be approved when the present borrower is unable or unwilling to accomplish the objectives of the guaranteed loan, and the transfer will be in the best financial interest of the borrower and the Agency.

(3) The Agency prefers to transfer to an eligible borrower subject to the policies and procedures governing the type of guaranteed loan being made, however the Agency will consider approving a transfer of a guaranteed loan to an ineligible borrower only if:

(i) The sale price is greater than it would be if the transfer was to an eligible borrower;

(ii) The transfer to an ineligible borrower is needed as a method for servicing a problem case; or

(iii) When an eligible borrower is not available. All transfers to an ineligible borrower must meet the following requirements:

(A) Transfer fees will be collected, and payments applied, in accordance with ยง 5001.509(b);

(B) The ineligible borrower agrees to pay the loan balance within the remaining term of the original guaranteed loan in periodic installments that will not result in a balloon payment at the loan's maturity;

(C) Interest rates are at the rate specified in the promissory note of the transferor or at rates customarily charged borrowers in similar circumstances in the ordinary course of business. The rates can be either fixed or variable, and are subject to Agency review and approval;

(D) The ineligible borrower must have the legal authority to enter into the contract and have the ability to repay the loan, as determined by the lender and the Agency. The ineligible borrower must submit a current balance sheet to the lender. The lender must obtain and analyze the credit history of the ineligible borrower.
