
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart F - Servicing Provisions
###### ยง 5001.506 Loan transfers and assumptions.
####### General.

(a)A lender must obtain prior written Agency approval in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section before the lender conducts a transfer and assumption of a guaranteed loan. The transferee will assume a loan amount at least equal to the outstanding loan balance or the present market value of the collateral, whichever is less. If the transferor is to receive a payment for their equity, the total debt must be assumed. The following conditions must be met:

(1) All transfers and assumptions will have a fee as provided by ยง 5001.509(b).

(2) For each transfer and assumption, the lender must concur in plans for the disposition of funds, if any, in the transferor's debt service, operations and maintenance, or other reserve accounts.

(3) The lender must confirm that the transfer and assumption can be completed in accordance with applicable laws.

(4) The lender must confirm that the conveyance instruments will be filed, registered, and recorded as appropriate and legally permissible. The transfer and assumption must be made on the Lender's form of assumption agreement and contain the Agency case number of the transferor and transferee. The lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the assumption agreement.

(5) The lender may request a transfer and assumption when the total indebtedness, or less than the total indebtedness, of the guaranteed loan is assumed by another borrower. If the assumption is for less than the total indebtedness, the transfer and assumption must be an arm's length transaction and the transfer must be of all loan collateral.

(6) In the event of default of the guaranteed loan, a transfer and assumption of the borrower's operation and guaranteed loan can be accomplished before or after the loan goes into liquidation. However, if the collateral has been purchased through foreclosure or the borrower has conveyed title to the lender, no transfer and assumption is permitted.

(7) No transfer and assumption is permitted when the Agency has repurchased any guaranteed portion of the guaranteed portion of the loan.

(8) If the transfer is for less than the total indebtedness, the pro rata share of an eligible loss will be paid to the lender after execution of the transfer and assumption documents.
