
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart F - Servicing Provisions
###### ยง 5001.515 Default by borrower.
####### Curative options.,e.g.,

(b)In considering curative actions, providing a permanent cure without adversely affecting the risk to the Agency and the lender is the paramount objective. The lender may consider temporary curative actions (payment deferments or collateral subordination) provided they strengthen the loan and are in the best financial interest of the lender and the Agency.

(1) Curative actions (subject to the rights of any holder and Agency concurrence) include, but are not limited to, the following options:

(i) Deferment of principal and/or interest payments;

(ii) An additional unguaranteed temporary loan by the lender to bring the account current;

(iii) Re-amortization of or rescheduling the payments on the loan excluding capitalization of accrued interest;

(iv) Transfer and assumption of the loan in accordance with ยง 5001.506;

(v) Reorganization;

(vi) Liquidation;

(vii) Changes in interest rates in accordance with ยง 5001.513. Any interest payments must be adjusted proportionately between the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the loan; and

(viii) Troubled debt restructure.

(2) The term of any deferment, rescheduling, re-amortization, or moratorium cannot exceed the lesser of the remaining useful life of the collateral or remaining term of the loan as set forth in ยง 5001.402(b) of this part.

(i) During a period of deferment or moratorium on the guaranteed loan, the lender's non-guaranteed loan(s) and any stockholder or affiliate loans must also be under deferment or moratorium.

(ii) Balloon payments are permitted as a loan servicing option as long as there is a reasonable prospect for successful repayment of the guaranteed loan and the remaining life of the collateral supports the action.
