
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart F - Servicing Provisions
###### ยง 5001.517 Liquidation.
####### Approval of liquidation plan.

(e)The lender cannot implement its liquidation plan before obtaining written approval from the Agency. The Agency will approve or disapprove the plan within 30 calendar days of its receipt. In order to ensure prompt action, the lender may submit its liquidation plan with an estimate of collateral value, and the Agency may approve the liquidation plan subject to the results of the final liquidation appraisal.

(1) If the Agency approves the lender's liquidation plan, the lender must:

(i) Proceed expeditiously with liquidation;

(ii) Take all legal action necessary to liquidate the loan in accordance with the approved liquidation plan; and

(iii) Update or modify the liquidation plan when conditions warrant, including a change in value based on a liquidation appraisal.

(iv) If changed circumstances after submission of the liquidation plan require a revision of liquidation costs, the lender must obtain the Agency's written approval prior to proceeding with the proposed changes if the revised liquidation costs exceed 10 percent of the amount proposed in the liquidation plan approved by the Agency.

(2) If the Agency does not approve the lender's liquidation plan, the Agency will meet with the lender to resolve the concern(s). Until the concerns are resolved, the lender must take such actions that a reasonable lender would take without a guarantee and keep the Agency informed, in writing, of those actions. Once the revised liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, the lender must proceed in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
