
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart F - Servicing Provisions
###### ยง 5001.519 Bankruptcy.
####### Estimated loss payments.

(1)(i) If a borrower has filed for bankruptcy and all or a portion of the debt has been discharged, the lender must request an estimated loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court. Only one estimated loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. The Agency will treat all subsequent claims of the lender during bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings as revisions to the initial estimated loss. At its option, the Agency may process a revised estimated loss payment in accordance with any court-approved changes in the bankruptcy plan. Once the bankruptcy plan has been satisfactorily completed, the lender is responsible for submitting the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the estimated loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest and to reimburse the lender for any court-ordered interest rate reduction under the terms of the bankruptcy plan.

(ii) The lender must use the report of loss to request an estimated loss payment and to revise any estimated loss payments during the bankruptcy plan. The estimated loss claim, as well as any revisions to this claim, must be accompanied by documentation to support the claim.

(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, the lender must-

(A) Enter the data directly into the Agency's electronic system; and

(B) Provide the Agency with the documentation necessary to determine whether the estimated loss paid equals the actual loss sustained. Where the actual loss sustained is different than the estimated loss paid, the difference will be handled in accordance with ยง 5001.521(h).
