
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter L - Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
#### PART 5001 - GUARANTEED LOANS
##### Subpart F - Servicing Provisions
###### ยง 5001.521 Loss calculations and payment.
####### Liquidation expenses.

(7)As provided in ยง 5001.517(e), certain reasonable liquidation expenses are allowed during the liquidation process. The lender cannot claim any liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.

(i) Liquidation expenses are recoverable only from liquidation proceeds. The Agency will deduct liquidation expenses from the liquidation proceeds of the collateral unless the costs have been previously determined by the lender (with Agency concurrence) to be protective advances. The lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of liquidation expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, evidence that the amount expended was proper, and that the amount was actually paid.

(ii) The Agency may approve legal fees as liquidation expenses provided that the fees are reasonable, require the assistance of attorneys, and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the lender, its employees or in-house counsel. Approved legal expenses are limited by the Agency to an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the current principal balance and will be shared by the lender and Agency equally. This includes those instances where the lender has incurred such expenses from a trustee conducting the liquidation of assets. Legal fees in excess of 3 percent of the current principal balance shall be borne by the lender and are not recoverable from liquidation proceeds or any loss claim by the lender.

(iii) The lender cannot claim the guarantee fee or the other Agency fees as authorized liquidation expenses, and In-house expenses of the lender are not allowed.
