
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart G - United States Standards for Grades of Table Grapes (European or Vinifera Type)
####### Grades
######## ยง 51.885 U.S. No. 1 Institutional.

"U.S. No. 1 Institutional" grapes must have no less than 95 percent of the containers in the lot legibly marked "Institutional Pack." Further requirements for this grade include grapes which consist of clusters and/or bunches of well developed grapes of one variety, except when designated as assorted varieties, which are at least fairly well colored, uniform in appearance when so specified in connection with the grade, and which meet the following requirements:

(a) Basic requirements for berries:

(1) Mature;

(2) Firm;

(3) Firmly attached to capstem;

(4) Not weak;

(5) Not materially shriveled at capstem;

(6) Not shattered;

(7) Not split or crushed;

(8) Not wet.

(b) Basic requirements for stems: Not weak, or dry and brittle.

(c) Berries free from:

(1) Decay;

(2) Waterberry;

(3) Sunburn.

(d) Stems free from:

(1) Mold;

(2) Decay.

(e) Berries not damaged by: Any other cause.

(f) Bunches not damaged by:

(1) Shot berries;

(2) Dried berries;

(3) Other defective berries;

(4) Any other cause.

(g) Stems not damaged by:

(1) Freezing;

(2) Any other cause.

(h) Size:

(1) For berries: Exclusive of shot berries and dried berries, 75 percent, by count, of the berries on each bunch shall have the minimum diameters indicated for varieties as follows:

(i) Thompson Seedless, Perlette, Delight, Beauty Seedless, Sugraone, Flame Seedless and other seedless varieties nine-sixteenths of an inch.

(ii) Other varieties ten-sixteenths of an inch.

(2) For clusters/bunches: In this grade grapes shall consist of at least a two berry cluster ranging to clusters and/or bunches of grapes not greater than five ounces in weight. See section 51.913.

(i) For tolerances see section 51.886.
