
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart G - United States Standards for Grades of Table Grapes (European or Vinifera Type)
####### Maturity Requirements
######## ยง 51.888 Maturity requirements.
######### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) In the case of grapes grown in Arizona or California, "mature" means grapes in any lot shall meet the maturity requirements for the variety as set forth in the applicable State Agricultural Laws and Regulations referenced in this section. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from, in the case of Arizona maturity regulations, Arizona Department of Agriculture, Citrus, Fruit and Vegetable Standardization, 1688 W. Adams, Phoenix, AZ 85007 or in the case of California maturity regulations, California Department of Food and Agriculture, Fruit and Vegetable Quality Control, Standardization Section, 1220 N Street, P.O. Box 942871, Sacramento, California 94271-0001 or copies of both regulations may be inspected at USDA, AMS, F&VD, FPB, Standardization Section, Room 2065-S, 14th and Independence Avenue, Washington, DC 20250 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(1) Arizona maturity regulations are contained in Chapter 4-Plant Services Division, Article 7, Fruit And Vegetable Standardization, Section R3-4-733 Table Grape Standards, Effective January 6, 1994.

(2) California maturity regulations are contained in The California Code of Regulations, Title 3, Subchapter 4. Fresh Fruits, Nuts and Vegetables, Article 25, Table Grapes and Raisins, November 16, 1996.

(b) Grapes subject to U.S. import regulations shall meet the maturity requirements specified in such regulations.

(c) Grapes produced in States other than Arizona or California, or grapes imported from countries outside the United States during periods in which U.S. import regulations do not apply, shall meet the minimum percentage of soluble solids set forth in Table III as determined by use of a standard hand refractometer.

(1) The minimum percentage of soluble solids for any lot shall be determined from the juice of at least 10 percent, by weight, of whole bunches of the least mature grapes in that container which appears to have the least mature grapes. No lot shall be considered as failing to meet these requirements unless samples from two containers which appear to have the least mature grapes test below the required percentage of soluble solids.
