
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart H - United States Standards for Grades of Florida Oranges and Tangelos
####### Grades
######## § 51.1141 U.S. Fancy.

"U.S. Fancy" consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:

(a) Basic requirements:

(1) Discoloration: Not more than one-tenth of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1161.);

(2) Firm;

(3) Mature;

(4) Similar varietal characteristics;

(5) Smooth texture;

(6) Well colored; and,

(7) Well formed.

(b) Free from:

(1) Ammoniation;

(2) Buckskin;

(3) Caked melanose;

(4) Creasing;

(5) Decay;

(6) Scab;

(7) Split navels;

(8) Sprayburn;

(9) Undeveloped segments;

(10) Unhealed skin breaks; and,

(11) Wormy fruit.

(c) Free from injury caused by:

(1) Bruises;

(2) Green spots;

(3) Oil spots;

(4) Rough, wide or protruding navels;

(5) Scale;

(6) Scars;

(7) Skin breakdown; and,

(8) Thorn scratches.

(d) Free from damage caused by:

(1) Dirt or other foreign material;

(2) Disease;

(3) Dryness or mushy condition;

(4) Hail;

(5) Insects;

(6) Riciness or woodiness;

(7) Sunburn; and,

(8) Other means.

(e) For tolerances see § 51.1151.

(f) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for "U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)" or "U.S. Grade A Juice" may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
