
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart L - Procedures Related to Administrative Hearings Under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986
##### ยง 1.346 Limitation.
###### ยง 1.426 Appeal to Judicial Officer.
####### Filing of petition.

(a)Within 10 calendar days after receiving service of the Judge's decision, a party who disagrees with the decision, or any part thereof, or any ruling by the Judge or any alleged deprivation of rights, may appeal such decision to the Judicial Officer by filing an appeal petition with the Hearing Clerk. As provided in ยง 1.422(e)(2), objections regarding evidence or a limitation regarding examination or cross-examination or other rulings made before the Judge may be relied upon in an appeal. Each issue set forth in the petition, and the arguments thereon, shall be separately numbered; shall be plainly and concisely stated; and shall contain detailed citations of the record, statutes, regulations or authorities being relied upon in support thereof. A brief may be filed in support of the appeal simultaneously with the petition. A party filing a petition of appeal to the Judicial Officer, and any brief in support thereof, shall serve the other parties to the proceeding with a copy of the petition and supporting brief. The copies of the petition and supporting brief shall be served on the parties to the proceeding with a copy of the petition and supporting brief. The copies of the petition and supporting brief shall be served on the parties to the proceeding on the same day as the petition and supporting brief are filed with the Judicial Officer.
