
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart H - United States Standards for Grades of Florida Oranges and Tangelos
####### Grades
######## § 51.1143 U.S. No. 1.

"U.S. No. 1" consists of oranges which meet the following requirements:

(a) Basic requirements:

(1) Color;

(i) Early and midseason varieties shall be fairly well colored.

(ii) For Valencia and other late varieties, not less than 50 percent, by count, shall be fairly well colored and the remainder reasonably well colored.

(2) Discoloration: Not more than one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, may be affected by discoloration. (See § 51.1161.);

(3) Fairly smooth texture;

(4) Firm;

(5) Mature;

(6) Similar varietal characteristics; and,

(7) Well formed.

(b) Free from:

(1) Decay;

(2) Unhealed skin breaks; and,

(3) Wormy fruit.

(c) Free from damage caused by:

(1) Ammoniation;

(2) Bruises;

(3) Buckskin;

(4) Caked melanose;

(5) Creasing;

(6) Dirt or other foreign material;

(7) Disease;

(8) Dryness or mushy condition;

(9) Green spots;

(10) Hail;

(11) Insects;

(12) Oil spots;

(13) Riciness or woodiness;

(14) Scab;

(15) Scale;

(16) Scars;

(17) Skin breakdown;

(18) Split, rough or protruding navels;

(19) Sprayburn;

(20) Sunburn;

(21) Thorn scratches; and,

(22) Other means.

(d) For tolerances see § 51.1151.

(e) Internal quality: Lots meeting the internal requirements for "U.S. Grade AA Juice (Double A)" or "U.S. Grade A Juice" may be so specified in connection with the grade. (See §§ 51.1176-51.1179.)
