
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart I - United States Standards for Cleaned Virginia Type Peanuts in the Shell
####### Grades
######## ยง 51.1236 U.S. Fancy Hand Picked.

U.S. Fancy Hand Picked shall consist of cleaned Virginia type peanuts in the shell which are mature, dry, and free from loose peanut kernels, dirt or other foreign material, pops, paper ends, and from damage caused by cracked or broken shells, discoloration or other means. The kernels shall be free from damage from any cause. In addition, the peanuts shall not pass through a screen havingx 3 inch perforations. Unless otherwise specified, the unshelled peanuts in any lot shall not average more than 225 count per pound.

(a) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by weight, shall be permitted:

(1) 11.0 percent total for pops, peanuts having paper ends or damaged shells, loose undamaged peanut kernels, and dirt or other foreign material, but not more than one twenty-second of this amount, or 0.5 percent, shall be allowed for dirt or other foreign material.

(2) 5.0 percent for peanuts which will pass through the prescribed screen, but which are free from pops and from peanuts having paper ends or damaged shells.

(3) 4.5 percent for peanuts with damaged kernels, and damaged loose kernels.
