
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart J - United States Standards for Summer and Fall Pears
####### Standard Pack
######## ยง 51.1269 Sizing.

(a) The numerical count, or the minimum size of the pears packed in closed containers shall be indicated on the package. The number of pears in the box shall not vary more than 3 from the number indicated on the box.

(b) When the numerical count is marked on western standard pear boxes the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch in their transverse diameter for counts 120 or less; one-fourth inch for counts 135 to 180, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 193 or more.

(c) When the numerical count is marked on western standard half boxes or special half boxes packed three tiers deep, the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch for counts 75 or less; one-fourths inch for counts 80 to 110, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 115 or more.

(d) When the numerical count is marked on western standard half boxes or special half boxes packed two tiers deep, the pears shall not vary more than three-eighths inch for counts 50 or less; one-fourth inch for counts 55 to 70, inclusive; and three-sixteenths inch for counts 80 or more.

(e) When the numerical count is not shown, the minimum size shall be plainly stamped, stenciled or otherwise marked on the container in terms of whole inches, whole and half inches, whole and quarter inches, or whole and eighth inches, as 2inches minimum, 2inches minimum, or 2inches minimum, in accordance with the facts. It is suggested that both minimum and maximum sizes be marked on the container, as 2to 2inches, 2to 2inches, as such marking is especially desirable for pears marketed in the export trade.

(f) "Size" means the greatest transverse diameter of the pear taken at right angles to a line running from the stem to the blossom end.
