
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart K - United States Standards for Winter Pears
####### Definitions
######## ยง 51.1319 Injury.
######### Injury

means any blemish or defect, that more than slightly affects the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality. The following shall be considered as injury:

(a) Russeting which exceeds the following shall be considered as injury:

(1) On all varieties any excessively rough russeting (russeting which shows "frogging" or slight cracking).

(2) On Comice, and on Anjou and other smooth-skinned varieties, slightly rough russeting, or thick russeting, such as is characteristic of frost injury, when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter.

(3) On Anjou and other smooth-skinned varieties, smooth solid russeting when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter and smooth net-like russeting when the aggregate area exceeds 15 percent of the surface, and on Comice, smooth solid or smooth netlike russeting when the aggregate area exceeds one-third of the surface, except that, in addition, on these and similar varieties, any amount of characteristic smooth russeting shall be permitted on that portion of the calyx end not visible for more than one-half inch along the contour of the pear, when it is placed calyx end down on a flat surface.

(4) On any of the following and other similar varieties, rough or thick russeting such as is characteristic of frost injury when the aggregate area exceeds one-half inch in diameter.On any of these varieties any amount of characteristic russeting is permitted whether due to natural causes such as weather or stimulated by artificial means; leaf whips or light limbrubs which resemble and blend into russeted areas shall be considered as russet:

(b) Any one of the following defects or any combination thereof, the seriousness of which exceeds the maximum allowed for any one defect, shall be considered as injury:

(1) Limbrubs which are cracked, softened, more than very slightly depressed, not light in color, or exceeding an aggregate area of three-fourths inch in diameter.

(2) Hail marks or other similar depressions or scars which are not very shallow or superficial, or which affect an aggregate area of more than one-fourth inch in diameter.

(3) Cork spot when a pear shows depressions or the flesh of the pear is more than slightly affected.

(4) Sunburn or sprayburn if the normal color of the fruit has been materially changed, or if the skin is blistered or cracked, or the flesh softened or discolored.

(5) More than two healed slight stings or depressions, or any stings which materially affect the general appearance of the fruit.

(6) Blister mite or canker worm injury which is not very shallow and superficial or where the injury affects an aggregate area of more than one-fourth inch.
