
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart S - United States Standards for Fresh Tomatoes
####### Size
######## ยง 51.1859 Size.

(a) The size of tomatoes packed in any standard type shipping container shall be specified and marked according to one of the size designations set forth in Table I. Individual containers shall not be marked with more than one size designation. Consumer packages and their master container are exempt; however, if they are marked, the same requirements would apply.

(1) When containers are marked in accordance with Table I, the markings on at least 85 percent of the containers in a lot must be legible.

(2) In determining compliance with the size designations, the measurement for minimum diameter shall be the largest diameter of the tomato measured at right angles to a line from the stem end to the blossom end. The measurement for maximum diameter shall be the smallest dimension of the tomato determined by passing the tomato through a round opening in any position.

(b) In lieu of marking containers in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section or specifying size in accordance with the dimensions defined in Table I, for Cerasiforme type tomatoes commonly referred to as cherry tomatoes and Pyriforme type tomatoes commonly referred to as pear shaped tomatoes, and other similar types, size may be specified in terms of minimum diameter or minimum and maximum diameter expressed in whole inches, and not less than thirty-second inch fractions thereof, or millimeters in accordance with the facts.

(1) Tomatoes of these types are exempt from marking requirements. However, when marked to a minimum or minimum and maximum diameter, the markings on at least 85 percent of the containers in a lot must be legible.

(c) For tolerances see ยง 51.1861.
