
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart U - United States Standards for Grades of Filberts in the Shell
####### Grade
######## ยง 51.1995 U.S. No. 1.

"U.S. No. 1" consists of filberts in the shell which meet the following requirements:

(a) Similar type; and,

(b) Dry.

(c) Shells:

(1) Well formed; and,

(2) Clean and bright.

(3) Free from:

(i) Blanks; and,

(ii) Broken or split shells.

(4) Free from damage caused by:

(i) Stains; and,

(ii) Adhering husk; or,

(iii) Other means.

(d) Kernels:

(1) Reasonably well developed; and,

(2) Not badly misshapen.

(3) Free from:

(i) Rancidity;

(ii) Decay;

(iii) Mold; and,

(iv) Insect injury.

(4) Free from damage caused by:

(i) Shriveling; and,

(ii) Discoloration; or,

(iii) Other means.

(e) Size: The size shall be specified in connection with the grade in terms of minimum diameter, minimum and maximum diameters, or in accordance with one of the size classifications in Table I.

(f) Tolerances: In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, the following tolerances, by count, are permitted as specified:
