
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart Z - United States Standards for Grades of Pistachio Nuts in the Shell
####### ยง 51.2541 U.S. Fancy, U.S. Extra No. 1, U.S. No. 1 And U.S. Select Grades.

"U.S. Fancy," "U.S. Extra No. 1," "U.S. No. 1," and "U.S. Select" consists of pistachio nuts in the shell which meet the following requirements:

(a) Basic requirements:

(1) Free from:

(i) Foreign material;

(ii) Loose kernels;

(iii) Shell pieces;

(iv) Particles and dust; and,

(v) Blanks.

(b) Shells:

(1) Free from:

(i) Non-split shells; and,

(ii) Shells not split on suture.

(2) Free from damage by:

(i) Adhering hull material;

(ii) Light stained;

(iii) Dark stained; and,

(iv) Other External (shell) defects.

(c) Kernels:

(1) Well dried, or, very well dried when specified in connection with the grade.

(2) Free from damage by:

(i) Immature kernels;

(ii) Kernel spotting; and,

(iii) Other Internal (kernel) defects.

(3) Free from serious damage by:

(i) Minor insect or vertebrate injury;

(ii) Insect damage;

(iii) Mold;

(iv) Rancidity;

(v) Decay; and,

(vi) Other Internal (kernel) defects.

(d) The nuts are of a size not less thaninch in diameter as measured by a round hole screen.

(e) For tolerances, see ยง 51.2544.
