
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart AA - United States Standards for Grades of Shelled Pistachio Nuts
####### ยง 51.2559 Size classifications.

(a) The size of pistachio kernels may be specified in connection with the grade in accordance with one of the following size classifications.

(1) Jumbo Whole Kernels: 80 percent or more by weight shall be whole kernels and not more than 5 percent of the total sample shall pass through ainch round hole screen with not more than 1 percent passing through ainch round hole screen.

(2) Large Whole Kernels: 80 percent or more, by weight, shall be whole kernels and not more than 2 percent of the total sample shall pass through ainch round hole screen.

(3) Large Split Kernels: 75 percent or more, by weight, shall be half kernels split lengthwise and not more than 5 percent of the total sample shall pass through ainch round hole screen.

(4) Whole and Broken Kernels: means a mixture of any combination of whole kernels or pieces. The percentage of whole kernels and/or pieces may be specified. Not more than 5 percent of the total sample shall pass through ainch round hole screen.

(b) [Reserved]
