
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart FF - United States Standards for Grades of Onions (Other Than Bermuda-Granex-Grano and Creole Types)
####### Grades
######## ยง 51.2830 U.S. No. 1.
######### U.S. No. 1

consists of onions which meet the following requirements:

(a) Basic requirements:

(1) Similar varietal characteristics, except color when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;

(2) Mature;

(3) Fairly firm; and,

(4) Fairly well shaped.

(b) Free from:

(1) Decay;

(2) Wet sunscald;

(3) Doubles;

(4) Bottlenecks; and,

(5) Scallions.

(c) Free from damage caused by:

(1) Seedstems;

(2) Splits;

(3) Tops;

(4) Roots;

(5) Dry sunken areas;

(6) Sunburn;

(7) Sprouts;

(8) Freezing;

(9) Peeling;

(10) Cracked fleshy scales;

(11) Watery scales;

(12) Dirt or staining;

(13) Foreign matter;

(14) Mechanical;

(15) Translucent scales;

(16) Disease;

(17) Insects; and,

(18) Other means.

(d) For tolerances see ยง 51.2837.

(e) Size. Unless otherwise specified the diameter shall be not less than 1inches, and yellow, brown, or red onions shall have 40 percent or more, and white onions shall have 30 percent or more, by weight, of the onions in any lot 2 inches or larger in diameter.
