
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart FF - United States Standards for Grades of Onions (Other Than Bermuda-Granex-Grano and Creole Types)
####### Grades
######## § 51.2832 U.S. Commercial.
######### U.S. Commercial

consists of onions which meet the following requirements:

(a) Basic requirements:

(1) Similar varietal characteristics, except color when designated as a specialty or mixed pack;

(2) Mature;

(3) Not soft or spongy; and,

(4) Not badly misshapen.

(b) Free from:

(1) Decay;

(2) Wet sunscald;

(3) Doubles;

(4) Bottlenecks; and,

(5) Scallions.

(c) Free from damage caused by:

(1) Seedstems;

(2) Tops;

(3) Roots;

(4) Dry sunken areas;

(5) Sunburn;

(6) Sprouts;

(7) Freezing;

(8) Cracked fleshy scales;

(9) Watery scales;

(10) Mechanical;

(11) Translucent scales;

(12) Disease;

(13) Insects; and,

(14) Other means.

(d) Free from serious damage caused by:

(1) Staining;

(2) Dirt; and,

(3) Other foreign matter.

(e) For tolerances see § 51.2837.

(f) Size. Unless otherwise specified, the diameter shall be not less than 1inches. (See §§ 51.2836 and 51.2837.)
