
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 51 - FRESH FRUITS, VEGETABLES, AND OTHER PRODUCTS (INSPECTION, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart GG - United States Standards for Grades of Walnuts in the Shell
####### Grades
######## ยง 51.2949 U.S. No. 2.

"U.S. No. 2" consists of walnuts in shells which are dry, practically clean and free from splits, and free from damage caused by broken shells, perforated shells, adhering hulls, discoloration or other means. The kernels are well dried, free from decay, dark discoloration, rancidity, and free from damage caused by mold, shriveling, insects or other means. (See ยง 51.2954.)

(a) Kernel color shall be specified in connection with this grade in terms of "extra light," "light," "light amber," or "amber" from the USDA Walnut Color Chart or in terms of "red" color. The color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart shall not apply to "red" color. Furthermore, "red" color shall not be mixed with "extra light," "light," "light amber," or "amber" colors. When kernel color is based on the color classifications from the USDA Walnut Color Chart, at least 60 percent, by count, of the walnuts have kernels which are not darker than "light amber," and which are free from grade defects. Higher percentages of nuts with kernels not darker than "light amber" which are free from grade defects, and/or percentages with kernels not darker than "light" which are free from grade defects, may be specified in accordance with the facts. (See ยง 51.2954.)

(b) Size shall be specified in connection with the grade. (See ยง 51.2952.)
