
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart O - Conditions in FERC Hydropower Licenses
##### Document Filing and Service
###### § 1.612 Where and how must documents be filed?
####### Place of filing.

(a)Any documents relating to a case under §§ 1.610 through 1.660 must be filed with the appropriate office, as follows:

(1) Before NFS refers a case for docketing under § 1.626, any documents must be filed with NFS by directing them to the "Deputy Chief, NFS."

(i) For delivery by regular mail, address to USDA Forest Service, Attn: Lands Staff, Mail Stop 1124, 1400 Independence Ave. SW., Washington, DC 20250-1124.

(ii) For delivery by hand or private carrier, deliver to USDA Forest Service, Yates Bldg. (4 SO), 201 14th Street SW., Washington, DC (SW. corner of 14th Street and Independence Ave. SW.); phone (202) 205-1248; facsimile (703) 605-5117. Hand deliverers must obtain an official date-time-stamp from Lands Staff.

(2) The Forest Service will notify the parties of the date on which NFS refers a case for docketing under § 1.626. After that date, any documents must be filed with:

(i) The Hearing Clerk, if OALJ will be conducting the hearing. The Hearing Clerk's address, telephone number, and facsimile number are set forth in § 1.602; or

(ii) The hearings component of or used by another Department, if that Department will be conducting the hearing. The name, address, telephone number, and facsimile number of the appropriate hearings component will be provided in the referral notice from the Forest Service.
