
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 52 - PROCESSED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES, PROCESSED PRODUCTS THEREOF, AND CERTAIN OTHER PROCESSED FOOD PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Requirements Governing Inspection and Certification
####### Sampling
######## ยง 52.38b Statistical sampling procedures for on-line inspection by attributes of processed fruits and vegetables.
######### Cumulative Sum Sampling (CuSum) Plans for processed fruits and vegetables.

(h)(1) Tables VI through X contain the CuSum sampling plans for each of five different standard sample unit sizes. The plans within each table are listed according to increasing values of Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL's).

(2) AQL values of 10.0 or less may be expressed either in "defects per hundred units" or in "percent defective units." The same sampling plans are used for both. Separate sampling plans must be used for AQL values greater than 10.0.

(3) These tables also provide the quality levels associated with 50 percent and 10 percent probabilities of acceptance for each of the plans. These quality levels are expressed in the same units as the corresponding AQL values.

(4) A separate CuSum sampling plan is chosen for each class of defects (or defectives) by first specifying the desired AQL and then selecting the appropriate standard sample unit size. The quality levels associated with 50 percent and 10 percent probabilities of acceptance may be used as guides to help determine a suitable standard sample unit size.
