
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 52 - PROCESSED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES, PROCESSED PRODUCTS THEREOF, AND CERTAIN OTHER PROCESSED FOOD PRODUCTS
###### Subpart E - United States Standards for Grades of Processed Raisins
####### ยง 52.1843 Summary of types (varieties) of processed raisins.

(a) Type I-Seedless Raisins.

(1) Natural.

(2) Dipped, Vine-dried, or similarly processed raisins.

(b) Type II-Golden Seedless Raisins.

(c) Type III-Raisins with Seeds.

(1) Natural.

(i) Seeded (seeds removed).

(ii) Unseeded-capstemmed (loose).

(iii) Unseeded-uncapstemmed (loose).

(iv) Layer (or Cluster).

(2) Dipped, Vine-dried, or other similarly processed raisins.

(i) Seeded (seeds removed).

(ii) Unseeded-capstemmed (loose).

(iii) Unseeded-uncapstemmed (loose).

(d) Type IV-Sultana Raisins.

(e) Type V-Zante Currant Raisins.

(1) Unseeded.

(2) Seeded.

(f) Type VI-Mixed Types or Varieties of Raisins. A mixture of two or more different types (varieties) of raisins including sub-types outlined in this section but other than: (1) Mixtures containing Layer or Cluster Raisins with seeds; (2) Mixtures containing Unseeded-capstemmed and Unseeded-uncapstemmed Raisins with Seeds; and (3) mixture of Seeded and Unseeded Raisins with Seeds.
