
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 54 - MEATS, PREPARED MEATS, AND MEAT PRODUCTS (GRADING, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart A - Grading of Meats, Prepared Meats, and Meat Products
####### Service
######## ยง 54.13 Accessibility and refrigeration of products; access to establishments; suitable work environment; and access to records.

(a) The applicant shall make products easily accessible for examination, with appropriate and adequate illuminating facilities, in order to disclose their class, grade, other quality characteristics, and compliance with official standards or other contractual requirements for which service is being provided. Supervisors of grading and other employees of the Department responsible for maintaining uniformity and accuracy of service shall have access to all parts of establishments covered by approved applications for service under the regulations, for the purpose of examining all products in the establishments that have been or are to be graded or examined for compliance with specifications or which bear any marks of grade or compliance.

(b) Grading service will be furnished only for meat that an official grader determines is chilled so that grade factors are developed to the extent that a proper grade determination can be made in accordance with the official standards. Meat that is presented in a frozen condition is not eligible for a grade determination. Meat of all eligible species shall be graded only in the establishment where the animal was slaughtered or initially chilled (except for veal and calf carcasses, which will be graded only after the hide is removed and only in the establishment where such removal occurs).

(c) Applicants are responsible for providing a work environment where official graders are not subjected to physical and/or verbal abuse, or other elements that could have a negative effect on providing an unbiased, third-party evaluation. Applicants shall designate primary company representatives to discuss grade placements and certification determinations with official graders.

(d) Applicants will make products and related records (approved labeling, technical proposals, quality plans, specifications, end product data schedules, grade volume information, etc.) easily accessible and provide assistance and any equipment necessary to accomplish the requested services. Equipment may include storage lockers/cabinets, branding ink, certified scales, food blenders, processors, grinders, sampling containers, sanitation equipment, thermometers, adequate lighting, weight tags, display monitors, video equipment for monitoring live animal schedules, etc. When offering product for grading or certification, applicants must ensure a minimum of 90 percent acceptable product.

(e) Applicants will provide a metal cabinet(s) or locker(s) for the secure storage of official meat grading equipment and identification devices for each official meat grader assigned to their establishment. Such cabinet(s) or locker(s) must be capable of being locked with a Government-owned lock and be located in an easily accessible and secure location within the applicant's establishment.
