
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 54 - MEATS, PREPARED MEATS, AND MEAT PRODUCTS (GRADING, CERTIFICATION, AND STANDARDS)
###### Subpart A - Grading of Meats, Prepared Meats, and Meat Products
####### Service
######## ยง 54.20 Exemptions.

Any exemption to the regulations must be approved by the Director. Exemptions may include but are not limited to:

(a) Grading the meat of animals in other than carcass form if the class, grade, and other quality attributes may be determined under the applicable official standards.

(b) Grading in an establishment other than where the animal was slaughtered or initially chilled if the class, grade, and other quality attributes can be determined under the applicable official standards, and if the identity of the carcasses can be maintained.

(c) If the Branch is unable to provide grading service in a timely manner and the meat can be identified in conformance with the official standards.

(d) Grading in the establishment other than where the hide is removed, provided the meat can be identified in conformance with the official standards.

(e) Grading imported carcasses, provided:

(1) The imported carcass is marked so that the name of the country of origin is conspicuous to the USDA grader. The mark of foreign origin shall be imprinted by roller brand, handstamp, tag, or other approved method.

(2) The imprints of the mark of foreign origin have been submitted to the Chief for the determination of compliance with these regulations prior to use on meats offered for Federal grading.

(3) The applicant notifies the official grader performing the service whenever imported carcasses are offered for grading.

(f) For good cause and provided that the meat can be identified in conformance with the official standards and procedures.
