
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 56 - VOLUNTARY GRADING OF SHELL EGGS
###### Subpart A - Grading of Shell Eggs
####### General
######## ยง 56.4 Basis of grading service.

(a) Any grading service in accordance with the regulations in this part shall be for class, quality, quantity, or condition or any combination thereof. Grading service with respect to the determination of the quality of products shall be on the basis of the "United States Standards, Grades, and Weight Classes for Egg Shells." However, grading service may be rendered with respect to products which are bought and sold on the basis of institutional contract specifications or specifications of the applicant and such service, when approved by the Administrator, shall be rendered on the basis of such specifications. The supervision of packaging shall be in accordance with such instructions as may be approved or issued by the Administrator.

(b) Whenever grading service is performed on a representative sample basis, such sample shall be drawn and consist of not less than the minimum number of cases as indicated in the following table. A minimum of one hundred eggs shall be examined per sample case. For lots which consist of less than 1 case, a minimum of 50 eggs shall be examined. If the lot consists of less than 50 eggs, all eggs will be examined.
