
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 56 - VOLUNTARY GRADING OF SHELL EGGS
###### Subpart A - Grading of Shell Eggs
####### Identifying and Marking Products
######## ยง 56.35 Authority to use, and approval of official identification.
######### Approval of official identification.

(b)No label, container, or packaging material which bears official identification may contain any statement that is false or misleading. No label, container, or packaging material bearing official identification may be printed or prepared for use until the printers' or other final proof has been approved by the Administrator in accordance with the regulations in this part, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, and the regulations promulgated under these acts. The use of finished labels must be approved as prescribed by the Administrator. A grader may apply official identification stamps to shipping containers if they do not bear any statement that is false or misleading. If the label is printed or otherwise applied directly to the container, the principal display panels of such container shall for this purpose be considered as the label. The label shall contain the name, address, and ZIP Code of the packer or distributor of the product, the name of the product, a statement of the net contents of the container, and the U.S. grademark.
