
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 56 - VOLUNTARY GRADING OF SHELL EGGS
###### Subpart A - Grading of Shell Eggs
####### Identifying and Marking Products
######## ยง 56.36 Form of grademark and information required.
######### Information required on grademark.

(b)(1) Except as otherwise authorized by the Administrator, each grademark used shall include the letters "USDA" and the U.S. grade of the product it identifies, such as "A Grade," as shown in Figure 2 of this section. Such information shall be printed with the shield and the wording within the shield in contrasting colors in a manner such that the design is legible and conspicuous on the material upon which it is printed.

(2) The size or weight class of the product, such as "Large," may appear within the grademark as shown in Figure 3 of this section. If the size or weight class is omitted from the grademark, it must appear prominently on the main panel of the carton.

(3) Except as otherwise authorized, the bands of the shield in Figure 4 of this section shall be displayed in three colors, with the color of the top, middle, and bottom bands being blue, white, and red, respectively.

(4) The "Produced From" grademark in Figure 5 of this section may be any one of the designs shown in Figures 2 through 4 of this section. The text outside the shield shall be conspicuous, legible, and in approximately the same proportion and close proximity to the shield as shown in Figure 5 of this section.

(5) The plant number of the official plant preceded by the letter "P" must be shown on each carton or packaging material.
