
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Premises, Buildings, Facilities, Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.126 Buildings.
########## Lighting and ventilation.

(d)(1) Light shall be ample, natural or artificial, or both, of good quality and well distributed. All rooms in which dairy products are manufactured or packaged or where utensils are washed shall have at least 30 foot-candles of light intensity on all working surfaces. Rooms where dairy products are graded or examined for condition and quality shall have at least 50 foot-candles of light intensity on the working surface. Restrooms and locker rooms should have at least 30 foot-candles of light intensity. In all other rooms there shall be provided at least 5 foot-candles of light intensity when measured at a distance of 30 inches from the floor. Where contamination of product by broken glass is possible, light bulbs and fluorescent tubes shall be protected against breakage.

(2) There shall be adequate heating, ventilation or air conditioning for all rooms and compartments to permit maintenance of sanitary conditions. Exhaust or inlet fans, vents, hoods or temperature and humidity control equipment shall be provided where and when needed, to minimize or control room temperatures, eliminate objectionable odors, and aid in prevention of moisture condensation and mold. Inlet fans should be provided with an adequate air filtering device to eliminate dirt and dust from the incoming air. Ventilation systems shall be cleaned periodically as needed and maintained in good repair. Exhaust outlets shall be screened or provided with self closing louvers to prevent the entrance of insects when not in use.
