
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Premises, Buildings, Facilities, Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.127 Facilities.
########## Disposal of wastes.

(f)Dairy wastes shall be properly disposed of from the plant and premises consistent with requirements imposed by the Environmental Protection Act. The sewer system shall have sufficient slope and capacity to readily remove all waste from the various processing operations. Where a public sewer is not available, all wastes shall be properly disposed of so as not to contaminate milk equipment or to create a nuisance or public health hazard. Containers used for the collection and holding of wastes shall be constructed of metal, plastic, or other equally impervious material and kept covered with tight fitting lids. Waste shall be stored in an area or room in a manner to protect it from flies and vermin. Solid wastes shall be disposed of regularly and the containers cleaned before reuse. Accumulation of dry waste paper and cardboard shall be kept to a minimum and disposed of in a manner that is environmentally acceptable.
