
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Premises, Buildings, Facilities, Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.128 Equipment and utensils.
########## General construction, repair and installation.

(a)The equipment and utensils used for the processing of milk and manufacture of dairy products shall be constructed to be readily demountable where necessary for cleaning and sanitizing. The product contact surfaces of all utensils and equipment such as holding tanks, pasteurizers, coolers, vats, agitators, pumps, sanitary piping and fittings or any specialized equipment shall be constructed of stainless steel, or other materials which under conditions of intended use are as equally corrosion resistant. Non-metallic parts other than glass having product contact surfaces shall comply with 3-A Sanitary Standards for Plastic or Rubber and Rubber-Like Materials. Equipment and utensils used for cleaning shall be in an acceptable condition, such as not rusty, pitted or corroded. All equipment and piping shall be designed and installed so as to be easily accessible for cleaning, and shall be kept in good repair, free from cracks and corroded surfaces. New or rearranged equipment, shall be set away from any wall or spaced in such a manner as to facilitate proper cleaning and to maintain good housekeeping. All parts or interior surfaces of equipment, pipes (except certain piping cleaned-in-place) or fittings, including valves and connections shall be accessible for inspection. Milk and dairy product pumps shall be of a sanitary type and easily dismantled for cleaning or shall be of specially approved construction to allow effective cleaning in place.
