
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Premises, Buildings, Facilities, Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.128 Equipment and utensils.
########## Product storage tanks or vats.

(d)Storage tanks or vats shall be fully enclosed or tightly covered and well insulated. The entire interior surface, agitator and all appurtenances shall be accessible for thorough cleaning and inspection. Any opening at the top of the tank or vat including the entrance of the shaft shall be suitably protected against the entrance of dust, moisture, insects, oil or grease. The sight glasses, if used, shall be sound, clear, and in good repair. Vats which have hinged covers shall be easily cleaned and shall be so designed that moisture, or dust on the surface cannot enter the vat when the covers are raised. If the storage tanks or vats are equipped with air agitation, the system shall be of an approved type and properly installed in accordance with the 3-A Accepted Practices for Supplying Air Under Pressure. Storage tanks or vats intended to hold product for longer than approximately 8 hours shall be equipped with adequate refrigeration and/or have adequate insulation. New or replacement storage tanks or vats shall comply with the appropriate 3-A Sanitary Standards for Storage Tanks for Milk and Milk Products or Sanitary Standards for Silo-Type Storage Tanks for Milk and Milk Products and shall be equipped with thermometers in good operating order.
