
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Premises, Buildings, Facilities, Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.128 Equipment and utensils.
########## Coil or dome type batch pasteurizers.

(f)Coil or dome type batch pasteurizers shall be stainless steel lined and if the coil is not stainless steel or other equally noncorrosive metal it shall be properly tinned over the entire surface. Sanitary seal assemblies at the shaft ends of coil vats shall be of the removable type, except that existing equipment not provided with this type gland will be acceptable if the packing glands are maintained and operated without adverse effects. New or replacement units shall be provided with removable packing glands. Dome type pasteurizer agitators shall be stainless steel except that any non-metallic parts shall comply with 3-A Sanitary Standards for Plastic or Rubber and Rubberlike Materials, as applicable. Each pasteurizer used for heating product at a temperature of 5 &#xB0;F. or more above the minimum pasteurization temperature need not have the airspace heater. It shall be equipped with an airspace thermometer to insure a temperature at least 5 &#xB0;F. above that required for pasteurization of the product. There shall be adequate means of controlling the temperature of the heating medium, Batch pasteurizers shall have temperature indicating and recording devices.
