
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Premises, Buildings, Facilities, Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.128 Equipment and utensils.
########## Short time pasteurizing systems.

(g)When pasteurization is intended or required, an approved timing pump or device, recorder-controller, automatic flow diversion valve and holding tube or its equivalent, if not a part of the existing equipment, shall be installed on all such equipment used for pasteurization, to assure complete pasteurization. The entire facility shall comply with the 3-A Accepted Practices for the Sanitary Construction, Installation, Testing and Operation of High Temperature Short Time Pasteurizers. After the unit has been tested according to the 3-A Accepted Practices, the timing pump or device and the recorder controller shall be sealed at the correct setting to assure pasteurization. The system should be rechecked semi-annually to assure continued compliance with the 3-A Accepted Practices. Sealing and rechecking of the unit shall be performed by the control authority having jurisdiction. When direct steam pasteurizers are used, the steam, prior to entering the product, shall be conducted through a steam strainer and a steam purifier equipped with a steam trap and only steam meeting the requirements for culinary steam shall be used.
