
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Premises, Buildings, Facilities, Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.128 Equipment and utensils.
########## Vacuumizing equipment.

(p)The vacuum chamber, as used for flavor control, shall be made of stainless steel or other equally corrosion resistant metal. The unit shall be constructed to facilitate cleaning and all product contact surfaces shall be accessible for inspection. Vacuum chambers located on the pasteurized side of the unit shall be isolated by means of a vacuum breaker and a positive activated check valve on the product inlet side and a vacuum breaker and a positive activated check valve on the discharge side. If direct steam is used, it should also be equipped with a ratio controller to regulate the composition when applicable to the finished product. Only steam which meets the requirements for culinary steam shall be used. The incoming steam supply shall be regulated by an automatic solenoid valve which will cut off the steam supply in the event the flow diversion valve of the pasteurizer is not in the forward flow position. Condensers when used shall be equipped with a water level control and an automatic safety shutoff valve.
