
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Protection and Transport of Raw Milk and Cream
######### ยง 58.131 Equipment and facilities.
########## Cream stations.

(3)Cream stations shall provide adequate protection and facilities for the handling, transferring and cooling of farm separated cream. The area shall be large enough to avoid undue crowding with a normal volume of business and shall be separated from other areas and the outside by self closing, tight fitting doors. All openings shall be screened during fly season. The floor, walls and ceiling shall be of satisfactory construction, in good repair and kept clean. Lighting and ventilation shall meet the requirements of ยง 58.126(d). Cooling facilities shall be provided to cool the cream to 50 &#xB0;F. or lower unless shipped within 8 hours after receipt. Facilities shall be provided to wash, sanitize and store cans and equipment used in the operation. The cream should not be more than 4 days old when picked up for delivery to the processing plant.
