
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Protection and Transport of Raw Milk and Cream
######### ยง 58.131 Equipment and facilities.
########## Transport tanks.

(2)The exterior shell shall be clean and free from open seams or cracks which would permit liquid to enter the jacket. The interior shell shall be stainless steel and so constructed that it will not buckle, sag or prevent complete drainage. All product contact surfaces shall be smooth, easily cleaned and maintained in good repair. The pump and hose cabinet shall be fully enclosed with tight fitting doors and the inlet and outlet shall be provided with dust covers to give adequate protection from road dust. Tank manholes should be equipped with an adequate filtering system during loading and unloading. New and replacement transport tanks shall comply with 3-A Sanitary Standards for Stainless Steel Automotive Milk and Milk Products Transportation Tanks for Bulk Delivery and/or Farm Pick-up Service.
