
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Operations and Operating Procedures
######### ยง 58.146 Cleaning and sanitizing treatment.
########## Equipment and utensils.

(a)The equipment, sanitary piping and utensils used in receiving and processing of the milk, and manufacturing and handling of the product shall be maintained in a sanitary condition. Sanitary seal assemblies shall be removable on all agitators, pumps, and vats and shall be inspected at regular intervals and kept clean. Unless other provisions are recommended in the following supplement sections, all equipment not designed for C.I.P. cleaning or mechanical cleaning shall be disassembled after each day's use for thorough cleaning. Dairy cleaners, detergents, wetting agents or sanitizing agents, or other similar materials which will not contaminate or adversely affect the products may be used. Steel wool or metal sponges shall not be used in the cleaning of any dairy equipment or utensils.

(1) Product contact surfaces shall be subjected to an effective sanitizing treatment prior to use, except where dry cleaning is permitted. Utensils and portable equipment used in processing and manufacturing operations shall be stored above the floor in clean, dry locations and in a self draining position on racks constructed of impervious corrosion-resistant material.

(2) C.I.P. cleaning or mechanical cleaning systems shall be used only on equipment and pipeline systems which have been designed, engineered and installed for that purpose. When such cleaning is used, careful attention shall be given to the proper procedures to assure satisfactory cleaning. All C.I.P. installations and cleaning procedures shall be in accordance with 3-A Suggested Method for the Installation and Cleaning of Cleaned-In-Place Sanitary Milk Pipelines for Milk and Milk Products Plants. Because of the possibilities of corrosion, the recommendations of the cleaning compound manufacturer should be followed with respect to time, temperature and concentration of specific acid or alkaline solutions and bactericides. Such cleaning operation should be preceded by a thorough rinse at approximately 110-115 &#xB0;F. continuously discarding the water. Following the circulation of the cleaning solution the equipment and lines shall be thoroughly rinsed with lukewarm water and checks should be made for effectiveness of cleaning. All caps, plugs, special fittings, valve seats, cross ends, pumps, and tee ends shall be opened or removed and brushed clean. All non-pasteurized product contact surfaces should be sanitized. Immediately prior to starting the product flow, the pasteurized product contact surfaces shall be given sanitizing treatment.
