
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Operations and Operating Procedures
######### ยง 58.148 Plant records.

Adequate plant records shall be maintained of all required tests and analyses performed in the laboratory or throughout the plant during storage, processing and manufacturing, on all raw milk receipts and dairy products. Such records shall be available for examination at all reasonable times by the inspector. The following are the records which shall be maintained for examination at the plant or receiving station where performed.

(a) Sediment and bacterial test results on raw milk from each producer. Retain for 12 months.

(1) Routine tests and monthly summary of all producers showing number and percent of total in each class.

(2) Retests, if initial test places milk in probationary status.

(3) Rejections of raw milk over No. 3 in quality.

(b) Pasteurization recorder charts. Retain for 3 months.

(c) Water supply test certificate. Retain current copy for 6 months.

(d) Cooling and heating recorder charts. Retain for 3 months.

(e) Load and individual drug residue test results. Retain for 12 months.

(f) Notifications to appropriate State regulatory agencies of positive drug residue tests and intended and final dispositions of milk testing positive for drug residue. Retain for 12 months.

(g) Somatic cell count test results on raw milk from each producer. Retain for 12 months.
