
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Definitions
######### ยง 58.205 Meaning of words.
########## Instant nonfat dry milk.

(b)Instant nonfat dry milk is nonfat dry milk which has been produced in such a manner as to substantially improve its dispersing and reconstitution characteristics over that produced by the conventional process. Instant nonfat dry milk shall not contain dry buttermilk, dry whey, or products other than nonfat dry milk, except that lactose may be added as a processing aid during instantizing. The instant nonfat dry milk shall not contain any added preservatives, neutralizing agent, or other chemical. If lactose is used, the amount of lactose shall be the minimum required to produce the desired effect, but in no case shall the amount exceed 2.0 percent of the weight of the nonfat dry milk. If instant nonfat dry milk is fortified with vitamin A, and the product is reconstituted in accordance with the label directions, each quart of the reconstituted product shall contain 2000 International Units thereof. If instant nonfat dry milk is fortified with vitamin D, and the product is reconstituted in accordance with the label directions, each quart of the reconstituted product shall contain 400 International Units thereof.
