
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Rooms and Compartments
######### ยง 58.211 Packaging room for bulk products.

A separate room or area shall be provided for filling bulk containers, and shall be constructed in accordance with ยง 58.126. The number of control panels and switch boxes in this area should be kept to a minimum. Control panels shall be mounted a sufficient distance from the walls to facilitate cleaning or satisfactorily sealed to the wall, or shall be mounted in the wall and provided with tight fitting removable doors to facilitate cleaning. An adequate exhaust system shall be provided to minimize the accumulation of product dust within the packaging room and where needed, a dust collector shall be provided and properly maintained to keep roofs and outside areas free of dry product. Only packaging materials that are used within a day's operation may be kept in the packaging area. These materials shall be kept on metal racks or tables at least six inches off the floor. Unnecessary fixtures, equipment, or false areas which may collect dust and harbor insects, should not be allowed in the packaging room.
