
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Equipment and Utensils
######### ยง 58.220 Drying systems.
########## Spray dryers.

(a)Spray dryers shall be of a continuous discharge type and all product contact surfaces shall be of stainless steel or other equally corrosion resistant material. All joints and seams in the product contact surfaces shall be welded and ground smooth. All dryers shall be constructed so as to facilitate ease in cleaning and inspection. Sight glasses or ports of sufficient size shall be located at strategic positions. Dryers shall be equipped with suitable air intake filters. The filter system shall comply with the applicable requirements of the 3-A Accepted Practices for Milk and Milk Products Spray Drying Systems. The filtering system shall be cleaned or component parts replaced as often as necessary to maintain a clean and adequate air supply. In gas fired dryers, precautions should be taken to assure complete combustion. Air shall be drawn into the dryer from sources free from objectionable odors and smoke, dust or dirt. New systems, replacement systems, or portions of systems replaced shall comply with the requirements of the 3-A Accepted Practices for Milk and Milk Products Spray Drying Systems.
