
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart P - Rules of Practice and Procedure Governing Formal Rulemaking Proceedings Instituted by the Secretary
##### ยง 1.807 Direct testimony submitted as written documents.

Any person desiring to participate as a witness at the hearing shall submit direct testimony as written documents as prescribed by the following:

(a) Direct testimony by a witness, including accompanying exhibits, must be submitted as specified in the notice of the hearing pursuant to ยง 1.803. Exhibits constituting part of such direct testimony, referred to in the direct testimony and made a part thereof must be attached to the direct testimony. Direct testimony submitted with exhibits must state the issue(s) to which the exhibit relates; if no such statement is made, the Judge, at the hearing, shall determine the relevance of the exhibit to the issues published in the.

(b) The direct testimony submitted shall contain:

(1) A concise statement of the witness' interest in the proceeding and his or her position regarding the issues presented. If the direct testimony is presented by a witness who is not a party, the witness shall state the witness' relationship to the party on behalf of whom the testimony is proffered; and

(2) Facts that are relevant and material.

(c) Copies of all direct testimony, including accompanying exhibits, must be submitted as prescribed by the notice of hearing.

(d) Upon receipt, direct testimony shall be assigned a number and stamped with that number and the docket number.
