
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Quality Specifications for Raw Material
######### ยง 58.520 Nondairy ingredients.
########## Other ingredients.

(c)Other ingredients such as fruits, nuts, chives or other vegetables used or blended with cottage cheese shall be reasonably free of bacteria so as not to appreciably increase the bacterial count of the finished product. The various ingredients in kind shall be consistent in size and color so as to produce the desired appearance and appeal of the finished product. The flavor of the ingredients used shall be natural and represent the intended flavor and intensity desired in the finished product. Such ingredients shall be clean, wholesome, of uniformly good quality, free from mold, rancid or decomposed particles. Vegetables used in cottage cheese may first be soaked for 15 to 20 minutes in a cold 25 to 50 ppm chlorine solution to appreciably reduce the bacterial population. After soaking, the vegetables shall be drained and used soon thereafter.
