
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 58 - GRADING AND INSPECTION, GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR APPROVED PLANTS AND STANDARDS FOR GRADES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Provisions Governing the Inspection and Grading Services of Manufactured or Processed Dairy Products
####### Miscellaneous
######## Requirements for Cottage Cheese Bearing USDA Official Identification
######### ยง 58.526 Official identification.
########## Nonfat dry milk.

(b)Nonfat dry milk, when used in cottage cheese bearing official identification, shall meet the requirements for U.S. Extra Grade (Spray Process), at time of use, and should be of U.S. Low Heat Classification (not less than 6.0 mg. undenatured whey protein nitrogen per gram of nonfat dry milk). In addition, the nonfat dry milk shall have a direct microscopic count not exceeding 75 million per gram. The age of the nonfat dry milk shall be covered by a USDA grading certificate, evidencing compliance with quality requirements, dated not more than 6 months prior to use of the dry milk. In the interim between manufacture and use, the nonfat dry milk shall be stored in a clean, dry, vermin-free space. In any case, if the nonfat dry milk is more than 120 days old, at time of use, it shall be examined for flavor to make certain that it meets the requirements for U.S. Extra Grade.
