
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart P - Rules of Practice and Procedure Governing Formal Rulemaking Proceedings Instituted by the Secretary
##### ยง 1.809 Conduct of the hearing.
###### Objections.

(2)If a party objects to the admission or rejection of any evidence or to any other ruling of the Judge during the hearing, such party shall state briefly the grounds of such objection, whereupon an automatic exception will follow if the objection is overruled by the Judge. The ruling of the Judge on any objection shall be a part of the transcript. Only objections made before the Judge may subsequently be relied upon in the proceeding.

(3) Upon proper motion, the Judge may accept direct testimony submitted pursuant to ยง 1.807 into evidence without a witness reading the direct testimony into evidence. Such direct testimony shall become a part of the record subject to exclusion of irrelevant and immaterial parts thereof. A party shall be deemed to have waived the right to introduce pre-hearing written direct testimony and documents if such party fails to present a witness to introduce those documents. The witness introducing direct testimony and documents shall do so under oath or affirmation and shall:

(i) State his or her name, address and occupation.

(ii) State qualifications for introducing the direct testimony. If an expert, the witness shall briefly state the scientific or technical training which qualifies the witness as an expert.

(iii) Identify the direct testimony and documents previously submitted pursuant to ยง 1.807 of this subpart.

(iv) Submit to direct and cross examination determined to be necessary and appropriate by the Judge.
