
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1b - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### ยง 1b.2 Policy.

(a) All policies and programs of the various USDA agencies shall be planned, developed, and implemented so as to achieve the goals and to follow the procedures declared by NEPA in order to assure responsible stewardship of the environment for present and future generations.

(b) Each USDA agency is responsible for compliance with this part, the regulations of CEQ, and NEPA. Compliance will include the preparation and implementation of specific procedures and processes relating to the programs and activities of the individual agency, as necessary.

(c) The Under Secretary, Natural Resources and Environment (NR&E), is responsible for ensuring that agency implementing procedures are consistent with CEQ's NEPA regulations and for coordinating NEPA compliance for the Department. The Under Secretary, NR&E, through the Agricultural Council on Environmental Quality, will develop the necessary processes to be used by the Office of the Secretary in reviewing, implementing, and planning its NEPA activities, determinations, and policies.

(d) In connection with the policies and requirements set forth in this part, all USDA agencies are responsible for compliance with Executive Order 12114, "Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions." Compliance will include the preparation and implementation of specific procedures and processes relative to the programs and activities of the individual agencies, as necessary. Agencies shall consult with the Department of State; the Council on Environmental Quality; and the Under Secretary, NR&E, prior to placing procedures and processes in effect.
