
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 62 - AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE AUDIT VERIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION PROGRAMS (AVAAP)
###### Subpart E - Fees
####### ยง 62.300 Fees and other costs of service.
######## Allowance for bad debt rate.

(iii)Total AMS service program allowance for bad debt divided by total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked.

(2) The calendar year cost of living expenses and percentage of inflation factors used in the formulas in this section are based on OMB's most recent Presidential Economic Assumptions.

(c) Applicants are responsible for paying actual travel costs incurred to provide services, including but not limited to: Mileage charges for use of privately owned vehicles, rental vehicles and gas, parking, tolls, and public transportation costs such as airfare, train, and taxi service.

(d) The applicant is responsible for paying per diem costs incurred to provide services away from the auditor's or USDA official's official duty station(s). Per diem costs shall be calculated in accordance with existing travel regulations (41 CFR, subtitle F-Federal Travel Regulation System, chapter 301).

(e) When costs other than those costs specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are involved in providing the services, the applicant shall be responsible for these costs. The amount of these costs shall be determined administratively by AMS. However, the applicant will be notified of these costs before the service is rendered.
