
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 63 - NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT CENTER
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### Board of Directors
######## ยง 63.101 Nominations.

All nominations authorized under this section shall be made in the following manner:

(a) Nominations shall be obtained by the Secretary from national organizations eligible under ยง 63.105. An eligible organization shall submit to the Secretary for consideration at least two nominations for one or more voting member seats on the Board. If two nominations for each voting member seat are not submitted by such organization(s), then the Secretary may solicit nominations from other sources.

(b) After the establishment of the initial Board, USDA shall announce when a vacancy does or will exist. Nomination for subsequent Board members shall be submitted to the Secretary not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the terms of the members whose terms are expiring, in the manner as described in this section. In the case of vacancies due to reasons other than the expiration of a term of office, successor Board members shall be appointed pursuant to ยง 63.104.

(c) If more than one eligible organization exists, they may caucus and jointly nominate at least two qualified persons for each position. If joint agreement is not reached with respect to any such nominations, or if no caucus is held, each eligible organization may submit to the Secretary at least two nominees for each appointment to be made.
