
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 63 - NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT CENTER
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### Board of Directors
######## ยง 63.109 Procedure.

(a) At a Board meeting, it will be considered a quorum when a simple majority of the voting representatives are present.

(b) A decision of the Board shall be made by a majority of the voting members of the board.

(c) The Board shall meet not less than once each fiscal year at the call of the chairperson or at the request of the executive director.

(d) The location of the meeting shall be established by the Board.

(e) A chairperson shall be selected from among the voting members of the Board and all serve a term of office of two years.

(f) All Board members and the Secretary will be notified at least 30 days in advance of all Board meetings, unless an emergency meeting is declared.

(g) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is necessary, the Board may take action if supported by a simple majority of the Board representatives by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. In that event, all representatives must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.

(h) There shall be no voting by proxy.

(i) The organization of the Board and the procedures for conducting meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
