
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 66 - NATIONAL BIOENGINEERED FOOD DISCLOSURE STANDARD
###### Subpart B - Bioengineered Food Disclosure
####### ยง 66.104 Symbol disclosure.

A symbol disclosure must replicate the form and design of Figure 1 to this section.

(a) The symbol is a circle with a green circumference, and a white outer band. The bottom portion of the circle contains an arch, filled in green to the bottom of the circle. The arch contains two light green terrace lines, sloping downward from left to right. On the left side of the arch is a stem arching towards the center of the circle, ending in a four-pointed starburst. The stem contains two leaves originating on the upper side of the stem and pointing towards the top of the circle. In the background of the leaves, at the top of the circle and to the left of center, is approximately one-half of a circle filled in yellow. The remainder of the circle is filled in light blue. The symbol must contain the words "BIOENGINEERED."

(b) If a food (including any ingredient produced from such food) is on the List of Bioengineered Foods, and records maintained by a regulated entity demonstrate that the food is bioengineered, or do not demonstrate whether the food is bioengineered, the symbol disclosure must be the following:

(c) The symbol may be printed in black and white.

(d) Nothing can be added to or removed from the bioengineered food symbol design except as allowed in this part.
