
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 66 - NATIONAL BIOENGINEERED FOOD DISCLOSURE STANDARD
###### Subpart C - Other Factors and Conditions for Bioengineered Food
####### ยง 66.204 Submission of request or petition.
######## Required information.

(b)The request or petition must include the information described in this paragraph (b).

(1) Description of the requested factor or condition.

(2) Analysis of why the requested factor or condition should be included in considering whether a food is a bioengineered food, including any relevant information, publications, and/or data. The analysis should include how the Administrator should apply the standards for consideration in ยง 66.202.

(3) If the request or petition contains Confidential Business Information (CBI), the submission must comply with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(3).

(i) The requester or petitioner must submit one copy that is marked as "CBI Copy" on the first page and on each page containing CBI.

(ii) The requester or petitioner must submit a second copy with the CBI deleted. This copy must be marked as "CBI Redacted" on the first page and on each page where the CBI was deleted.

(iii) The submission must include an explanation as to why the redacted information is CBI.
