
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 70 - VOLUNTARY GRADING OF POULTRY PRODUCTS AND RABBIT PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Grading of Poultry Products and Rabbit Products
####### General
######## ยง 70.10 Basis of grading service.

(a) Any grading service in accordance with the regulations in this part shall be for class, quality, quantity, or condition or any combination thereof. Grading service with respect to determination of quality of products shall be on the basis of United States Classes, Standards, and Grades for Poultry and Rabbits. However, grading service may be rendered with respect to products which are bought and sold on the basis of institutional contract specifications or specifications of the applicant, and such service, when approved by the Administrator, shall be rendered on the basis of such specifications.

(b) Whenever grading service is provided for examination of quality, condition, or for test weighing on a representative sample basis, such sample shall be drawn and consist of not less than the minimum number of containers indicated in the following table. The number of representative samples for large bulk containers (combo bins, tanks, etc.) may be reduced by one-half. For quality or condition, all of the poultry and rabbits in each representative sample shall be examined except for individual ready-to-cook carcasses weighing under 6 pounds in large bulk containers. For individual carcasses weighing under 6 pounds in large bulk containers, 100 carcasses shall be examined for quality or condition. Procedures for test weighing shall be in accordance with those prescribed by the Administrator.
