
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter C - Requirements and Standards Under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and the Egg Products Inspection Act
##### PART 70 - VOLUNTARY GRADING OF POULTRY PRODUCTS AND RABBIT PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Grading of Poultry Products and Rabbit Products
####### Fees and Charges
######## ยง 70.71 Charges for services on an unscheduled basis.
######### Allowance for bad debt rate.

(iii)Total AMS grading program allowance for bad debt divided by total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked.

(2) The calendar year cost of living expenses and percentage of inflation factors used in the formulas in this section are based on OMB's most recent Presidential Economic Assumptions.

(c) Fees for unscheduled grading services will be based on the time required to perform the services. The hourly charges will include the time actually required to perform the grading, waiting time, travel time, and any clerical costs involved in issuing a certificate. Charges to plants are as follows:

(1) The regular hourly rate will be charged for the first 8 hours worked per grader per day for all days except observed legal holidays.

(2) The overtime rate will be charged for hours worked in excess of 8 hours per grader per day for all days except observed legal holidays.

(3) The holiday hourly rate will be charged for hours worked on observed legal holidays.
