
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter D - Export and Domestic Consumption Programs
##### PART 82 - CLINGSTONE PEACH DIVERSION PROGRAM
###### ยง 82.8 Application and approval for participation.

(a) Applications will be reviewed for program compliance and approved or disapproved by CCPA office personnel.

(b) Applications for participation in the Clingstone Peach Diversion Program can be obtained from the CCPA office at 2300 River Plaza Drive, Suite 110, Sacramento, CA 95833; Telephone: (916) 925-9131; Fax: (916) 925-9030; at 335 Teegarden Avenue, Suite A, Yuba City, CA 95991; Telephone: (530) 673-8526; Fax: (530) 673-2673; or at 1704 Herndon Road, Ceres, CA 95307; Telephone: (209) 537-0715; Fax: (209) 537-1043.

(c) Any grower desiring to participate in the Clingstone Peach Diversion Program must file an application with the CCPA prior to November 30, 2005. The application shall be accompanied by a copy of any two of the following four documents: Plot Map from the County Hall of Records; Irrigation Tax Bill; County Property Tax Bill; or any other documents containing an Assessor's Parcel Number. Such application shall include at least the following information:

(1) The name, address, telephone number, and tax identification number or social security number of the grower;

(2) The location and amount of acreage to be diverted;

(3) The 2005 clingstone peach production from the acreage to be diverted;

(4) If the land with respect to which the clingstone peach trees will be destroyed is subject to a mortgage, statutory lien, or other equity interest, the grower must obtain from the holder of such interest a written statement that such party agrees to the enrollment of such land in this program to the extent determined necessary by AMS. Obtaining such assent shall be the responsibility of the applicant who shall alone bear any responsibilities which may extend to such third parties;

(5) A statement that the applicant agrees to comply with all of the regulations established for the clingstone peach diversion program;

(6) The applicant shall sign the application certifying that the information contained in the application is true and correct;

(7) The year that the clingstone peach acreage to be diverted was planted;

(8) The names of the processors who received the clingstone peaches from the grower in 2005.

(d) After the CCPA receives the applications, it shall review them to determine whether all the required information has been provided and that the information is correct.

(e) If the deliveries off the acreage to be removed in such applications, multiplied by $100 per ton (for actual 2005 deliveries on these acres, but within the constraints of a minimum payment of $500 per acre and a maximum payment of $1,700 per acre), exceed the amount of funds available for the diversion program, each grower's application will be considered in the order in which they are received at the CCPA offices.

(f) After the application reviews and confirmation of eligible trees are completed, the CCPA shall notify the applicant, in writing, as to whether or not the application has been approved and the tonnage approved for payment after removal. If an application is not approved, the notification shall specify the reason(s) for disapproval.
