
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Commodity Laboratory Testing Programs
##### PART 91 - SERVICES AND GENERAL INFORMATION
###### Subpart F - Method Manuals
####### ยง 91.23 Analytical methods.

Most analyses are performed according to approved procedures described in manuals of standardized methodology. These standard methods are the specific methods used. Alternatively, equivalent methods prescribed in cooperative agreements are used. The manuals of standard methods most often used by the Science and Technology laboratories are listed as follows:

(a) Approved Methods of the American Association of Cereal Chemists (AACC), American Association of Cereal Chemists/Eagan Press, 3340 Pilot Knob Road, St. Paul, Minnesota 55121-2097.

(b) ASTA's Analytical Methods Manual, American Spice Trade Association (ASTA), 560 Sylvan Avenue, P.O. Box 1267, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey 07632.

(c) Compendium Methods for the Microbiological Examination of Foods, Carl Vanderzant and Don Splittstoesser (Editors), American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005.

(d) Edwards, P.R. and W.H. Ewing, Edwards and Ewing's Identification of Enterobacteriaceae, Elsevier Science, Inc., Regional Sales Office, 655 Avenue of the Americas, P.O. Box 945, New York, NY 10159-0945.

(e) FDA Bacteriological Analytical Manual (BAM), AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Avenue, Suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877-2417.

(f) Manual of Analytical Methods for the Analysis of Pesticide Residues in Human and Environmental Samples, EPA 600/9-80-038, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Chemical Exposure Research Branch, EPA Office of Research and Development (ORD), 26 West Martin Luther King Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268.

(g) Official Methods and Recommended Practices of the American Oil Chemists' Society (AOCS), American Oil Chemists' Society, P.O. Box 3489, 2211 West Bradley Avenue, Champaign, Illinois 61821-1827.

(h) Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC INTERNATIONAL, Volumes I & II, AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Avenue, Suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877-2417.

(i) Standard Analytical Methods of the Member Companies of Corn Industries Research Foundation, Corn Refiners Association (CRA), 1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20006.

(j) Standard Methods for the Examination of Dairy Products, American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005.

(k) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, American Public Health Association (APHA), the American Water Works Association (AWWA) and the Water Pollution Control Federation, AWWA Bookstore, 6666 West Quincy Avenue, Denver, CO 80235.

(l) Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste Physical/Chemical Methods, Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Solid Waste, SW-846 Integrated Manual (available from National Technical Information Service (NTIS), U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161).

(m) U.S. Army Natick Research, Development and Engineering Center's Military Specifications, approved analytical test methods noted therein, Code NPP-9, Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DODSSP) for Military Specifications, Standards, Building 4/D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094.

(n) U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Pesticide Analytical Manuals (PAM), Volumes I and II, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN), 200 C Street, SW., Washington, DC 20204 (available from National Technical Information Service (NTIS), U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161).
