
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Commodity Laboratory Testing Programs
##### PART 91 - SERVICES AND GENERAL INFORMATION
###### Subpart G - Reporting
####### ยง 91.30 Maintenance and retention of copies of certificates or analysis reports.

(a) At least one copy of each certificate or analysis report shall be filed in the laboratory for a period of not less than 3 years either from the date of issuance of the document, from the date of voiding a certificate, or from the date last payment is made by the applicant for a reported laboratory determination, whichever is later.

(b) Whenever any document, because of its condition, becomes unsuitable for its intended or continued use, the laboratory personnel shall make a copy of the original document.

(c) True copies shall be retained as photocopies, microfilm, microfiche, or other accurate reproductions and durable forms of the original document. Where reduction techniques, such as microfilming are used, suitable reader and photocopying equipment shall be readily available. Such reproductions shall be treated and considered for all purposes as though they were the original documents.

(d) All documents required to be maintained under this part shall be kept confidential and shall be disclosed only to the applicants or other persons with the applicants' knowledge and permission. Only such information as the Administrator deems relevant shall be disclosed to the public without the applicants' permission, and then, only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Administrator, or to which the Administrator or any other officer of the United States is a party.
