
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Commodity Laboratory Testing Programs
##### PART 94 - POULTRY AND EGG PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Mandatory Analyses of Egg Products
####### ยง 94.3 Analyses performed and locations of laboratories.
######## Salmonella,Salmonella.

(b) Mandatory egg product samples forare required and are analyzed in S&T laboratories to spot check and confirm the adequacy of USDA approved and recognized laboratories for analyzing routine egg product samples for

(c) Mandatory egg product samples for chlorinated hydrocarbons are required and are submitted by the plant inspectors on a random basis. These samples screen for pesticide residues and industrial chemical contaminants in egg products.

(d) Samples are drawn by a USDA egg products inspector to determine potential adulteration. These egg product samples may be analyzed for extraneous material, color, color additive, pesticide, heavy metal, microorganism, dextrin, or other substance.

(e) The AMS Science and Technology's Eastern Laboratory shall conduct the majority of laboratory analyses for egg products. The analyses for mandatory egg product samples are performed at the following USDA location: USDA, AMS, Science & Technology, Eastern Laboratory (Microbiology), 2311-B Aberdeen Boulevard, Gastonia, NC 28054-0614.
