
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Commodity Laboratory Testing Programs
##### PART 94 - POULTRY AND EGG PRODUCTS
###### Subpart A - Mandatory Analyses of Egg Products
####### ยง 94.4 Analytical methods.

The majority of analytical methods used by the USDA laboratories to perform mandatory analyses for egg products are listed as follows:

(a) Compendium Methods for the Microbiological Examination of Foods, Carl Vanderzant and Don Splittstoesser (Editors), American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005.

(b) Edwards, P.R. and W.H. Ewing, Edwards and Ewing's Identification of Enterobacteriaceae, Elsevier Science, Inc., Regional Sales Office, 655 Avenue of the Americas, P.O. Box 945, New York, NY 10159-0945.

(c) FDA Bacteriological Analytical Manual (BAM), AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Avenue, Suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877-2417.

(d) Manual of Analytical Methods for the Analysis of Pesticide Residues in Human and Environmental Samples, EPA 600/9-80-038, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Chemical Exposure Research Branch, EPA Office of Research and Development (ORD), 26 West Martin Luther King Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268.

(e) Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC INTERNATIONAL, Volumes I & II, AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Avenue, Suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877-2417.

(f) Standard Methods for the Examination of Dairy Products, American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005.

(g) Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, American Public Health Association (APHA), the American Water Works Association (AWWA) and the Water Pollution Control Federation, AWWA Bookstore, 6666 West Quincy Avenue, Denver, CO 80235.

(h) Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste Physical/Chemical Methods, Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Solid Waste, SW-846 Integrated Manual (available from National Technical Information Service (NTIS), U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161).

(i) U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Pesticide Analytical Manuals (PAM), Volumes I and II, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN), 200 C Street, SW, Washington, DC 20204 (available from National Technical Information Service (NTIS), U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161).
