
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart A - Official Records
##### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 1 - Fee Schedule
###### Commercial use requests

(i)are requests for information for a use or a purpose that furthers commercial, trade or profit interests, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. Components will determine, whenever reasonably possible, the use to which a requester will put the requested records. When it appears that the requester will put the records to a commercial use, either because of the nature of the request itself or because a component has reasonable cause to doubt a requester's stated use, the component may provide the requester a reasonable opportunity to submit further clarification. A component's decision to place a request in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the requester's intended use of the information.

(ii) Commercial requests will be charged applicable search fees, review, and duplication fees.

(iii) If a component fails to comply with the statutory time limits in which to respond to a commercial request, as provided in 7 CFR 1.6(b), and if no unusual or exceptional circumstances, as those terms are defined by the FOIA, apply to the processing of the request, as discussed in 7 CFR 1.6(d), it may not charge search fees for the processing of the request. It may, however, still charge applicable review and duplication fees.

(iv) If a component fails to comply with the statutory time limits in which to respond to a commercial request, as provided in 7 CFR 1.6(b), when unusual or exceptional circumstances, as those terms are defined by the FOIA, apply to the processing of the request, as discussed in 7 CFR 1.6(d), and the component notifies the requester, in writing, within the statutory 20-working day time period, that unusual or exceptional circumstances, as those terms are defined by the FOIA, apply to the processing of the request, more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, and the component has discussed with the requester by means of written mail, electronic mail, or by telephone (or has made not less than three good faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request, the component may charge any search fees for the processing of the request, as well as any applicable review and duplication fees. Otherwise, it may only charge applicable review and duplication fees.
