
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Commodity Laboratory Testing Programs
##### PART 110 - RECORDKEEPING ON RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDES BY CERTIFIED APPLICATORS; SURVEYS AND REPORTS
###### ยง 110.8 Administrative procedures.
####### Procedure upon failure to file an answer or admission of facts.

(f)The failure to file an answer with the Presiding Officer, or the admission by the answer of all the material allegations of fact contained in the notice of violation, shall constitute a waiver of hearing. Upon such admission or failure to submit an answer, complainant shall file with the Presiding Officer a proposed decision, along with a motion for the adoption of the proposed decision both of which shall be served upon the respondent by the Presiding Officer. Within 20 days after service of the motion and proposed decision, the respondent may file with the Presiding Officer objections to the motion and proposed decision. If the Presiding Officer finds that meritorious objections have been filed, complainant's motion shall be denied with supporting reasons. If meritorious objections are not filed, the Presiding Officer shall issue a decision without further procedure or hearing. Copies of the decision or denial of complainant's motion shall be served by the Presiding Officer upon the respondent and the complainant and may be appealed pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section. Where the decision as proposed by complainant is entered, such decision shall become final and effective without further proceedings 35 days after the date of service of the decision upon the respondent, unless there is an appeal to the Administrator by the complainant or respondent, pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section.
