
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Commodity Laboratory Testing Programs
##### PART 110 - RECORDKEEPING ON RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDES BY CERTIFIED APPLICATORS; SURVEYS AND REPORTS
###### ยง 110.8 Administrative procedures.
####### Conferences.

(g)(1) Upon motion of the complainant or respondent, the Presiding Officer may direct the complainant and respondent or their counsel to attend a conference at any reasonable time, prior to or during the course of the hearing, when the Presiding Officer finds that the proceeding would be expedited by a conference. Reasonable notice of the time and place of the conference shall be given. The Presiding Officer may order the complainant or respondent to furnish at or subsequent to the conference any or all of the following:

(i) An outline of the case or defense;

(ii) The legal theories upon which the party will rely;

(iii) A list of documents which the party anticipates introducing at the hearing; and

(iv) A list of anticipated witnesses who will testify on behalf of the party. At the discretion of the party furnishing such list of witnesses, the names of the witnesses need not be furnished if they are otherwise identified in some meaningful way such as a short statement of the type of evidence they will offer.

(2) The Presiding Officer shall not order a party to furnish the information or documents listed in paragraph (g)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section if the party can show that providing the particular information or document is inappropriate or unwarranted under the circumstances of the particular case.

(3) At the conference, the following matters may be considered:

(i) The simplification of issues;

(ii) The necessity of amendments to the notice of violation or answer;

(iii) The possibility of obtaining stipulations of facts and of the authenticity, accuracy, and admissibility of documents, which will avoid unnecessary proof;

(iv) The limitation of the number of expert or other witnesses;

(v) Negotiation, compromise, or settlement of issues;

(vi) The exchange of copies of proposed exhibits;

(vii) The identification of documents or matters of which official notice may be requested;

(viii) A schedule to be followed by the parties for completion of the actions decided at the conference; and

(ix) Such other matters as may expedite and aid in the disposition of the proceeding.

(4) A conference will not be stenographically reported unless so directed by the Presiding Officer.

(5) In the event the Presiding Officer concludes that personal attendance by the Presiding Officer and the parties or counsel at a conference is unwarranted or impractical, but determines that a conference would expedite the proceeding, the Presiding Officer may conduct the conference by telephone or correspondence.

(6) Actions taken as a result of a conference shall be reduced to a written appropriate order, unless the Presiding Officer concludes that a stenographic report shall suffice, or, the Presiding Officer elects to make a statement on the record at the hearing summarizing the actions taken.
