
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter E - Commodity Laboratory Testing Programs
##### PART 110 - RECORDKEEPING ON RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDES BY CERTIFIED APPLICATORS; SURVEYS AND REPORTS
###### ยง 110.8 Administrative procedures.
####### Offer of proof.

(12)Whenever evidence is excluded by the Presiding Officer, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the transcript. The offer of proof shall consist of a brief statement describing the evidence excluded. If the evidence consists of a brief oral statement, the statement shall be included in the transcript in its entirety. If the evidence consists of an exhibit, it shall be marked for identification and inserted in the hearing record. In either event, the evidence shall be considered a part of the transcript and hearing record if the Administrator, upon appeal, decides the Presiding Officer's ruling excluding the evidence was erroneous and prejudicial. If the Administrator, upon appeal, decides the Presiding Officer's ruling excluding the evidence was erroneous and prejudicial and that it would be appropriate to have such evidence considered a part of the hearing record, the Administrator may direct that the hearing be reopened to permit the taking of such evidence or for any purpose in connection with the excluded evidence.
