
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter F - Naval Stores
##### PART 160 - REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR NAVAL STORES
###### Request Inspection by Licensed Inspectors
####### ยง 160.52 Suspension or revocation of licenses.

(a) Any license to inspect, grade, and certify naval stores may be suspended or revoked for repeated failure by the licensee correctly to inspect, grade, classify, or certify naval stores, or upon the persistence of any condition which renders him unfit to perform the duties of a licensed inspector, or for other continued non-conformance with any provision of the act or the provisions in this part. A license may be suspended for similar failures, conditions or non-conformance of shorter duration or less serious nature.

(b) A license to inspect, grade and certify naval stores may be summarily suspended or revoked by any official authorized to issue or countersign such licenses where the public health, interest, or safety so requires or for willful acts or omissions by the licensee which constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of his license under paragraph (a) of this section. In all other cases, prior to the institution of proceedings for the suspension or revocation of a license, such authorized official shall cause to be served upon the licensee, in person or by registered mail, a statement of the facts which appear to warrant such suspension or revocation, specifying a reasonable time, depending upon the circumstances in each case, within which the licensee may demonstrate or achieve compliance with the act, and the provisions in this part. The licensee may demonstrate compliance by the presentation of evidence in writing or, in the discretion of such authorized official, at an oral hearing. If, at the end of the time allowed for the licensee to demonstrate or achieve compliance, such authorized official finds he is in compliance, his license shall not be suspended or revoked. If such authorized official finds the licensee is not in compliance, the license may be suspended or revoked after service upon the licensee, in person or by registered mail, of a notice that such action is under consideration for reasons specified in the statement of facts previously served upon him and after reasonable opportunity is given the licensee to present further evidence in his behalf. Within 7 days after receipt of notice of the suspension or revocation of his license, the inspector by letter may appeal to the Administrator for its reinstatement and may attach to such letter any evidence he may wish to submit.
