
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter F - Naval Stores
##### PART 160 - REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR NAVAL STORES
###### Specific Fees Payable for Services Rendered
####### ยง 160.201 Fees generally for field inspection and certification of naval stores and drum containers of rosin.
######## Inspections by licensed inspectors at eligible processing plants.

(a)(1) Rosin (grading and incidental certification as to class, condition and weight).

(i) In drums (see Note 1) per drum-$1.24.

(ii) In 100 pound bags (see Note 1) per bag-$.23.

(iii) In tank cars, per car-$67.50.

(iv) In tank trucks, per truck-$34.00.

(2) Turpentine (Grading and incidental certification as to class, condition and volume).

(i) In 55 gallon drums, per drum-$2.25.

(ii) In tank cars or trucks, per unit of 100 gallons-$1.41.

(iii) In bulk for delivery to tank steamer, per unit of 100 gallons-$2.25.

(b) Inspections by regularly employed, salaried Federal inspectors.

(1) Rosin.

(i) Grading and weighing at concentration and storage yards, per drum-$4.05.

(ii) Irregular inspection and grading at distillation or processing plants, up to 400 drums, per drum-$3.60; all over 400 drums, per drum-$2.25.

(iii) Weighing at concentration and storage yards, subsequent to grading, per drum-$2.25.

(iv) Examination of the external or internal appearance and condition of filled rosin drums, and of the rosin contained therein-See Note 2 and ยง 160.204.

(v) Re-certification under L.S. Certificate of rosin moving in commerce, per drum-$.23.

(2) Turpentine (inspection and certification as to kind, condition, volume, etc.).

(i) In drums of 55 gallons, per drum-$3.38.

(ii) In tank cars or trucks, per unit of 100 gallons-$2.81.

(iii) For bulk delivery to tank steamer, per unit of 100 gallons-$2.25.
