
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.15 Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs.
###### et seq.

(xvii) Carry out activities relating to the sale, reduction, or cancellation of debt, as authorized by title VI of the Agricultural Trade and Development Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1738).

(xviii) [Reserved]

(xix) Allocate the agricultural commodities acquired under price support programs that have been determined by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation or designee to be available for export among the various export programs.

(xx) Conduct economic analyses pertaining to the foreign sugar situation.

(xxi) Exercise the Department's functions with respect to the International Sugar Agreement or any such future agreements.

(xxii) Exercise the Department's responsibilities with respect to tariff-rate quotes for dairy products under chapter 4 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).

(xxiii) Serve as a focal point for handling quality or weight discrepancy inquiries from foreign buyers of U.S. agricultural commodities to insure that they are investigated and receive a timely response and that reports thereof are made to appropriate parties and government officials in order that corrective action may be taken.

(xxiv) Establish and administer regulations relating to foreign travel by employees of the Department. Regulations will include, but not be limited to, obtaining and controlling passports, obtaining visas, coordinating Department of State medical clearances and imposing requirements for itineraries and contacting the Foreign Agricultural Affairs Officers upon arrival in the Officers' country(ies) of responsibility.
