
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.15 Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs.
###### et seq.

(xxv) Formulate policies and administer programs and activities authorized by the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5601).

(xxvi) Administer the Foreign Service personnel system for the Department in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 3922, except as otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs in ยง 2.22(a)(2)(i), but including authority to approve joint regulations issued by the Department of State and authority to represent the Department of Agriculture in all interagency consultations and negotiations with the other foreign affairs agencies with respect to joint regulations.

(xxvii) Establish and maintain U.S. Agricultural Trade Offices, to develop, maintain and expand international markets for U.S. agricultural commodities in accordance with title IV of Public Law No. 95-501 (7 U.S.C. 1765a-g).

(xxviii) Administer the programs under section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1431(b)), relating to the foreign donation of CCC stocks of agricultural commodities, except as otherwise delegated in ยง 2.42(a)(43).

(xxix) Support remote sensing activities of the Department and research with satellite imagery including:

(A) Providing liaison with U.S. space programs;

(B) Providing administrative management of the USDA Remote Sensing Archive and the transfer of satellite imagery to all USDA agencies;

(C) Coordinating all agency satellite imagery data needs; and

(D) Arranging for acquisition, and preparation of imagery for use to the extent of existing capabilities.

(xxx) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.

(xxxi) Administer programs under the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o), except as otherwise delegated in ยง 2.42(a)(43).

(xxxii) Serve as Department adviser on policies, organizational arrangements, budgets, and actions to accomplish international scientific and technical cooperation in food and agriculture.
