
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.15 Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs.
###### Related to the U.S. Codex Office.

(5)(i) Inform the public of the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (19 U.S.C. 2578; Pres. Proc. 6780).

(ii) Enter into agreements with organizations, institutions or individuals throughout the world to conduct activities related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission, including international outreach and education, in order to promote and support the development of a viable and sustainable global agricultural system; antihunger and improved international nutrition efforts; and increased quantity, quality, and availability of food (7 U.S.C. 3291).

(iii) Coordinate with institutions and other persons throughout the world performing agricultural and related research, extension, and teaching activities by exchanging research materials and results with such institutions or persons or by conducting with such institutions or persons joint or coordinated research, extension, or teaching activities that are related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission and that address problems of significance to food and agriculture in the United States (7 U.S.C. 3291).

(iv) Work with transitional and more advanced countries in food, agricultural, and related research, development, teaching, and extension activities related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (7 U.S.C. 3291).

(v) Enter into contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and cost reimbursable agreements to carry out the Department's agricultural research, extension, or teaching activities related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (7 U.S.C. 3318, 3319a).

(vi) Determine amounts reimbursable for indirect costs under international agricultural programs and agreements (7 U.S.C. 3319).

(vii) Coordinate policy formulation for USDA international science and technology programs concerning the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (7 U.S.C. 3291).

(b) The following authorities are reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture:
