
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.16 Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.
###### et seq.

(xviii) Formulate and carry out the Conservation Reserve Program, including the implementation of technical assistance, under the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3831), and the functions of the Grassland Reserve Program transferred to the Conservation Reserve Program.

(xix) Carry out functions relating to highly erodible land and wetland conservation under sections 1211-1213 and 1221-1223 of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3811-3813 and 3821-3823).

(xx)-(xxii) [Reserved]

(xxiii) Formulate and administer regulations regarding program ineligibility resulting from convictions under Federal or State law of planting, cultivating, growing, producing, harvesting, or storing a controlled substance, as required under section 1764 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (21 U.S.C. 881a).

(xxiv) [Reserved]

(xxv) Administer all programs of the Commodity Credit Corporation that provide assistance with respect to the production of agricultural commodities or the income of producers, including disaster assistance and the domestic marketing of such commodities, except as may otherwise be reserved by the Secretary of Agriculture, and similar programs (including commodity quality development programs) consigned by statute to the Secretary of Agriculture unless otherwise delegated.

(xxvi) Administer the following provisions of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 with respect to functions otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation:

(A) The equitable relief provisions of section 1613 (7 U.S.C. 7996).

(B) The tracking of benefits under section 1614 (7 U.S.C. 7997).

(xxvii) Formulate and carry out the Grassroots Source Water Protection Program authorized by the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2).

(xxviii) Administer cooperative agreements authorized under 7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)(4) as follows:

(A) Administer cooperative agreements with respect to conservation programs;

(B) Administer cooperative agreements with Federal agencies, State, local, and tribal governments, nongovernmental organizations, and educational institutions related to outreach and technical assistance for programs carried out by the Farm Service Agency, and, where such cooperative agreements focus on outreach activities to beginning, underserved, or veteran producers, coordinate with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement to reduce potential duplication.

(xxix) Administer the feedstock flexibility program for bioenergy producers under section 9010 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8110) and the biomass crop assistance program under section 9011 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 8111).

(xxx-(xxxi) [Reserved]

(xxxii) Implement the authority in section 1241 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841) to accept and use voluntary contributions of non-Federal funds in support of natural resources conservation programs under subtitle D of title XII of that Act with respect to authorities delegated to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.

(xxxiii) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(xxxiv) Administer the following provisions of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, Public Law 110-246:

(A) [Reserved]

(B) Section 1609 relating to the tracking of benefits.

(C)-(D) [Reserved]

(E) Section 1621 relating to direct reimbursement payments to geographically disadvantaged farmers or ranchers.

(F)-(G) [Reserved]

(H) Section 14212 relating to the closure or relocation of county or field offices of the Farm Service Agency.

(I) Section 15353(a) relating to information reporting for Commodity Credit Corporation transactions.

(xxxv) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(xxxvi) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79, as amended:

(A) Sections 1401-1410 relating to a margin protection program for dairy producers (7 U.S.C. 9051-9060), and section 1431 relating to a dairy product donation program (7 U.S.C. 9071).

(B) Section 1612 relating to the tracking of benefits (7 U.S.C. 9095).

(C) Section 12314 relating to the Pima Agriculture Cotton Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 2101 note).

(D) Section 12315 relating to the Agriculture Wool Apparel Manufacturers Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 7101 note).

(xxxvii) Administer the funds made available to the Office of the Secretary under Title I of Subdivision B, Further Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2018, Public Law 115-123.

(xxxviii) Determine the agricultural commodities acquired under price support programs which are available for export.

(xxxix) Administer the following provisions of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, Public Law 116-334:

(A) Section 5413 relating to reporting on farm loans (7 U.S.C. 2008x).

(B) Section 12304 relating to the National Beginning Farmer and Rancher Coordinator (7 U.S.C. 6934a).

(C) Section 12612 relating to a national agriculture imagery program (7 U.S.C. 2204j).

(D) Section 12615 relating to the eligibility for farm operators on heirs' property to obtain a farm loan number (7 U.S.C. 2266b).
