
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.16 Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.
###### et seq.

(iii) Administer the Rural Rehabilitation Corporation Trust Liquidation Act (40 U.S.C. 440), and trust, liquidation, and other agreements entered into pursuant thereto.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) Administer Farmers Home Administration or any successor agency assets conveyed in trust under the Participation Sales Act of 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1717).

(vi) Administer the Emergency Loan and Guarantee Programs under sections 232, 234, 237, and 253 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 (Pub. L. No. 91-606), the Disaster Relief Act of 1969 (Pub. L. No. 91-79), Pub. L. No. 92-385, approved August 16, 1972, and the Emergency Livestock Credit Act of 1974 (Pub. L. No. 93-357), as amended.

(vii) Administer loans to homestead or desertland entrymen and purchasers of land in reclamation projects or to an entryman under the desertland law (7 U.S.C. 1006a and 1006b).

(viii) [Reserved]

(ix) Service, collect, settle, and liquidate:

(A) Deferred land purchase obligations of individuals under the Wheeler-Case Act of August 11, 1939, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590y), and under the item, "Water Conservation and Utilization projects" in the Department of the Interior Appropriation Act, 1940 (53 Stat. 719), as amended;

(B) Puerto Rican Hurricane Relief loans under the Act of July 11, 1956 (70 Stat. 525); and

(C) Loans made in conformance with section 4 of the Southeast Hurricane Disaster Relief Act of 1965 (79 Stat. 1301).

(x) Administer loans to Indian tribes, tribal corporations, and purchasers of highly fractionated land (25 U.S.C. 488-492).
