
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### purity analysis in the administration of the act
####### § 201.47 Separation.

(a) The working sample shall be weighed in grams to four significant figures and shall then be separated into four parts: (1) Kind or variety to be considered pure seed, (2) other crop seed, (3) weed seed, and (4) inert matter. The components shall be weighed in grams to the same number of decimal places as the working sample. The percentage of each part shall be determined to two decimal places.

(b) Aids for the classification of pure seed, other crop seed, weed seed, and inert matter may include visual examination, use of transmitted light (diaphanoscope), or specific gravity (seed blowers). Specific instructions for classification of the various components are given in §§ 201.47a to 201.51, inclusive.

(c) The components shall be weighed and percentages calculated as follows:

(1) For sample sizes less than 25 grams, all four components shall be weighed; the percentages shall be based on the sum of these weights and not on the original weight. The sum of these weights shall be compared with the original weight of the working sample as a check against the loss of material, or other errors.

(2) For sample sizes of 25 grams or more, the components-other crop seed, weed seed, and inert matter-shall be weighed separately and their percentages determined by dividing these weights by the original weight of the working sample. The pure seed need not be weighed; its percentage may be determined by subtracting the sum of the percentages of the other three components from 100.

(3) When rounding off the calculated percentages of each component to the second decimal place, round down if the third decimal place is 4 or less and round up if the third decimal place is 5 or more, except that if any component is determined to be present in any amount calculated to be less than 0.015 percent, then that component shall be reported as 0.01 percent. If any component is not found in the purity analysis, then that component shall be reported as 0.00 percent.

(4) The total percentage of all components shall be 100.00 percent. If the total does not equal 100.00 percent (e.g. 99.99 percent or 100.01 percent), then add to or subtract from the component with the largest value (usually the pure seed component).

(d) When the working sample consists of two or more similar kinds or varieties which would be difficult to separate in the entire sample, it is permissible to weigh the similar kinds or varieties together as one component and make the separation on a reduced portion of the sample. At least 400 seeds or an equivalent weight shall be taken indiscriminately from the pure seed component and the separation made on this portion. The proportion of each kind present shall then be determined by weight and from this the percentage in the entire sample shall be calculated.

(e) The Uniform Blowing Procedure described in § 201.51a(a) shall be used for the separation of pure seed and inert matter in seeds of Kentucky bluegrass, Canada bluegrass, rough bluegrass, Pensacola variety of bahiagrass, orchardgrass, side-oats grama, and blue grama.

(f) Procedures for purity analysis for coated seed are given in § 201.51b.
