
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### purity analysis in the administration of the act
####### § 201.51 Inert matter.

Inert matter shall include seeds and seed-like structures from both crop and weed plants and other material not seeds as follows:

(a) Seeds and seed-like structures from crop plants:

(1) Seeds of legumes (Fabaceae) and brassica (Brassicaceae) with the seed coats entirely removed. Refer to § 210.48(a) for pure seed classification.

(2) Pieces of broken and damaged seed units, including those that are insect damaged, which are one-half the original size or less. If greater than one-half, refer to § 201.48(b) and (c) for pure seed classification. Also included as inert matter are separated cotyledons of legumes, irrespective of whether or not the radicle-plumule axis and/or more than one-half of the seed coat may be attached.

(3) Chalcid-damaged seeds (puffy, soft, or dry and crumbly) of alfalfa, red clover, crimson clover, and similar kinds of small seeded legumes. Refer to § 201.48(c) for pure seed classification.

(4) Glumes and empty florets except as stated under pure seed. Refer to § 201.48 (g) and (h) for pure seed classification.

(5) Seed units with nematode galls or fungal bodies (smut, ergot, and other sclerotia) that are not entirely enclosed within the seed unit. Refer to § 201.48(h) for pure seed classification.

(6) Broken seed units of Chenopodiaceae and fruit portions or fragments of monogerm beets, New Zealand spinach, buffalograss, and families in which the seed unit is a dry indehiscent one-seeded fruit that visibly do not contain a seed. Refer to § 201.48 (f), (g)(1), (i), and (j) for pure seed classification.

(7) Seed units of forage kochia that pass through a 1 mm opening, square-hole sieve, when shaken for 30 seconds.

(8) The thin pericarp (fruit wall), if present on seeds of northern sweetvetch.
