
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.16 Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.
###### et seq.

(xi) Administer the State Agricultural Loan Mediation Program under title 5 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101)

(xii) Administer financial assistance programs relating to Economic Opportunity Loans to Cooperatives under part A of title III and part D of title I and the necessarily related functions in title VI of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2763-2768, 2841-2855, 2942, 2943(b), 2961), delegated by the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity to the Secretary of Agriculture by documents dated October 23, 1964 (29 FR 14764), and June 17, 1968 (33 FR 9850), respectively.

(xiii) Exercise all authority and discretion vested in the Secretary by section 331(c) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended by section 2 of the Farmers Home Administration Improvement Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-248 (7 U.S.C. 1981(c)), including the following:

(A) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the Department of Justice for the conduct of litigation, and refer such actions to the Department of Justice through the General Counsel;

(B) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the General Counsel, for the conduct of litigation and refer such actions; and

(C) Enter into contracts with private sector attorneys for the conduct of litigation, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, after determining that the attorneys will provide competent and cost effective representation for the Farm Service Agency.

(xiv) Administer programs for Apple Loans and Emergency Loans for Seed Producers under sections 203(f) and 253, respectively, of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note, Pub. L. 106-224).

(xv) Administer evaluations of direct and guaranteed loan programs under section 5301 of the Farm security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1922 note).
