
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### purity analysis in the administration of the act
####### ยง 201.51a Special procedures for purity analysis.
######## Pure seed and inert matter.

(5)Use the calibrated blower to separate the seed sample into light and heavy portions. After completing the initial separation, remove and separate all weed and other crop seeds from the light portion. The remainder of the light portion shall be considered inert matter. Remove all weed and other crop seeds and other inert matter (stems, leaves, dirt) from the heavy portion and add them to the weed seed, other crop seed, or inert matter separations, as appropriate. The remainder of the heavy portion shall be considered pure seed.

(b) The Multiple Unit Procedure of determining the pure seed fraction shall be used only for the kinds included in the following table when multiple units are present in a sample. These methods are applicable to the kinds listed when they occur in mixtures or singly. Any single unit without attached structures, as described below, shall be considered a single unit. Multiple units and single units for the kinds listed shall remain intact. The attached glumes and fertile or sterile florets shall not be removed from the fertile floret.

(1) A multiple unit is a seed unit that includes one or more structures as follows (the length of the awn shall be disregarded when determining the length of a fertile floret or an attached structure):

(i) An attached sterile or fertile floret that extends to or beyond the tip of a fertile floret;

(ii) A fertile floret with basally attached glume, glumes, or basally attached sterile floret of any length;

(iii) A fertile floret with two or more attached sterile and/or fertile florets of any length.

(2) Procedure for determination of multiple units:

(i) For the single kind: determine the percentage of single units present, based on the total weight of single units and multiple units. Apply the appropriate factor, as determined from the following table, to the weight of the multiple units and add that portion of the multiple unit weight to the weight of the single units. The remaining multiple unit weight shall be added to the weight of the inert matter.

(ii) For mixtures that include one or more of the kinds in the following table, determine the percentage of single units, based on the total weight of single units and multiple units, for each kind. Apply the appropriate factor as determined from the following table, to the weight of multiple units of each kind.
