
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### germination tests in the administration of the act
####### ยง 201.56-3 Mustard family, Brassicaceae (Cruciferae).
######## Brassica, Sinapis,,Raphanus,

(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons which expand and become thin, leaf-like and photosynthetic. Inandthe cotyledons are bi-lobed and folded, with the outer cotyledon being larger than the inner.

(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and carries the cotyledons above the soil surface; the epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.

(4) Root system: A long primary root.

(b) Abnormal seedling description.

(1) Cotyledons:

(i) Decayed at point of attachment.

(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.

(iii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.

(2) Epicotyl:

(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if the cotyledons are intact.)

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Hypocotyl:

(i) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.

(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.

(iii) Watery.

(4) Root:

(i) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root. (Secondary roots will not compensate for a defective root.)

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) Seedling:

(i) One or more essential structures impaired as result of decay from primary infection.

(ii) Albino.
