
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### germination tests in the administration of the act
####### ยง 201.56-4 Cucurbit family, (Cucurbitaceae).

Kinds of seed: Citron, cucumber, West India gherkin, melon, pumpkin, squash, and watermelon.

(a) General description.

(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.

(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons which are large and fleshy; they expand, become photosynthetic, and usually persist beyond the seedling stage.

(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates and the cotyledons are pulled free of the seed coat, which often adheres to a peg-like appendage at the base of the hypocotyl. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.

(4) Root system: A long primary root with numerous secondary roots.

(b) Abnormal seedling description.

(1) Cotyledons:

(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.

(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay. (Remove any attached seed coats at the end of the test period for evaluation of cotyledons.)

(2) Epicotyl:

(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if the cotyledons are intact.)

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Hypocotyl:

(i) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.

(ii) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.

(4) Root:

(i) None.

(ii) Weak, stubby, or missing primary root, with less than two strong secondary or adventitious roots.

(5) Seedling:

(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.

(ii) Albino.
