
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### germination tests in the administration of the act
####### ยง 201.56-12 Miscellaneous plant families.

Kinds of seed by family:

Carrot family, Apiaceae (Umbelliferae)-carrot, celery, celeriac, dill, parsley, parsnip;

Hemp family, Cannabaceae-hemp;

Dichondra family, Dichondraceae-dichondra;

Geranium family, Geraniaceae-alfilaria;

Mint family, Lamiaceae (Labiatae)-sage, summer savory; benne family, Pedaliaceae-sesame;

Rose family, Rosaceae-little burnet;

Nightshade family, Solanaceae-eggplant, tomato, husk tomato, pepper, tobacco; and

Valerian family, Valerianaceae-cornsalad.

(a) General description.

(1) Germination habit: Epigeal dicot.

(2) Food reserves: Cotyledons; endosperm may or may not be present, depending on the kind.

(3) Shoot system: The hypocotyl elongates, carrying the cotyledons above the soil surface. The epicotyl usually does not show any development within the test period.

(4) Root system: A primary root; secondary roots may or may not develop within the test period, depending on the kind.

(b) Abnormal seedling description.

(1) Cotyledons:

(i) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue remaining attached.

(ii) Less than half of the original cotyledon tissue free of necrosis or decay.

(2) Epicotyl:

(i) Missing. (May be assumed to be present if the cotyledons are intact.)

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Hypocotyl:

(i) Malformed, such as markedly shortened, curled, or thickened.

(ii) Deep open cracks extending into the conducting tissue.

(iii) Watery.

(4) Root:

(i) None.

(ii) Missing or stubby primary root with weak secondary or adventitious roots.

(5) Seedling:

(i) One or more essential structures impaired as a result of decay from primary infection.

(ii) Albino.
