
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### examinations in the administration of the act
####### ยง 201.58a Indistinguishable seeds.
######## Ryegrass.

(a)In determining the pure seed percentage of perennial ryegrass and annual ryegrass, 400 seeds shall be grown on white filter paper and the number of fluorescent seedlings determined under ultraviolet light at the end of the germination period (see ยง 201.58(b)(10)).

(1) Fluorescence results are to be determined as test fluorescence level (TFL) to two decimal places as follows:

(2) The percentage of perennial ryegrass is calculated as follows:

(3) Using results from the above formula, the percentage of annual ryegrass is calculated as follows:

(4) If the test fluorescence level (TFL) of a perennial ryegrass is equal to or less than the variety fluorescence level (VFL) described for the variety, all pure ryegrass is considered to be perennial ryegrass and the formula is not applied.

(5) If the test fluorescence level (TFL) of an annual ryegrass is equal to or greater than the variety fluorescence level (VFL) described for the variety, all pure ryegrass is considered to be annual ryegrass and the formula is not applied.

(6) A list of variety fluorescence level (VFL) descriptions for perennial ryegrass varieties which are more than 0 percent fluorescent and annual ryegrass varieties which are less than 100 percent fluorescent is maintained and published by the National Grass Variety Review Board of the Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA). If the variety being tested is not stated or the fluorescence level has not been described, the fluorescence level shall be considered to be 0 percent for perennial ryegrass and 100 percent for annual ryegrass. Both VFL (annual) and VFL (perennial) values must always be entered in the formula. If a perennial ryegrass variety is being tested, the VFL (annual) value is 100 percent. If an annual ryegrass variety is being tested, the VFL (perennial) value is 0 percent. For blends the fluorescence level shall be interpolated according to the portion of each variety claimed to be present.
