
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### examinations in the administration of the act
####### ยง 201.58a Indistinguishable seeds.
######## Sweetclover.

(b)To determine the presence of yellow sweetclover in samples of white sweetclover, at least 400 seeds shall be subjected to the chemical test as follows:

(1) Preparation of test solution: Add 3 grams of cupric sulfate (CuSO) to 30 ml of household ammonia (NHOH, approximately 4.8 percent) in a stoppered bottle to form tetraamminecopper sulfate ([Cu(NH)]SO) solution used for this test. After mixing, a light blue precipitate of cupric hydroxide (Cu(OH)) should form. If no precipitate forms, add additional CuSOuntil a precipitate appears. Since the strength of household ammonia can vary, formation of a precipitate indicates that a complete reaction has taken place between CuSOand NHOH; otherwise fumes from excess ammonium hydroxide may cause eye irritation.

(2) Preparation of seeds: To insure imbibition, scratch, prick, or otherwise scarify the seed coats of the sweetclover seeds being tested. Soak seeds in water for 2 to 5 hours in a glass container.

(3) Chemical reaction: When seeds have imbibed, remove excess water and add enough test solution to cover the seeds. Seeds coats of yellow sweetclover will begin to stain dark brown to black; seed coats of white sweetclover will be olive or yellow-green. Make the separation within 20 minutes, since the seed coats of white sweetclover will eventually turn black also.

(4) Calculation of results: Count the number of seeds which stain dark brown or black and divide by the total number of seeds tested; multiply by the pure seed percentage for Melilotus spp.; the result is the percentage of yellow sweetclover in the sample. The percentage of white sweetclover is found by subtracting the percentage of yellow sweetclover from the percentage of Melilotus spp. pure seed.
