
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter K - Federal Seed Act
##### PART 201 - FEDERAL SEED ACT REQUIREMENTS
###### Certified Seed
####### ยง 201.68 Eligibility requirements for certification of varieties.

When a seed originator, developer, owner of the variety, or agent thereof requests eligibility for certification, the certification agency shall require the person to provide the following information upon request:

(a) The name of the variety.

(b) A statement concerning the variety's origin and the breeding or reproductive stabilization procedures used in its development.

(c) A detailed description of the morphological, physiological, and other characteristics of the plants and seed that distinguish it from other varieties.

(d) Evidence supporting the identity of the variety, such as comparative yield data, insect and disease resistance, or other factors supporting the identity of the variety.

(e) A statement delineating the geographic area or areas of adaptation of the variety.

(f) A statement on the plans and procedures for the maintenance of seed classes, including the number of generations through which the variety may be multiplied.

(g) A description of the manner in which the variety is constituted when a particular cycle of reproduction or multiplication is specified.

(h) Any additional restrictions on the variety, specified by the breeder, with respect to geographic area of seed production, age of stand or other factors affecting genetic purity.

(i) A sample of seed representative of the variety as marketed.
