
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.16 Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.
###### et seq.

(xvii) Administer the Water Bank Program under the Water Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301).

(xviii) Enter into cooperative agreements, which may provide for the acquisition of goods or services, including personal services, as authorized by Public Law 106-387 (7 U.S.C. 6962a).

(xix) Coordinate USDA input and assistance to the Department of Commerce and other Federal agencies consistent with section 307 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456), and coordinate USDA review of qualifying state and local government coastal management plans or programs prepared under such Act and submitted to the Secretary of Commerce, consistent with section 306(a) and (c) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1455(a) and (c)).

(xx) Administer the Healthy Forests Reserve Program authorized by sections 501-508, Title V of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6571-6578).

(xxi) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(xxii) In coordination with the Director, Office of Advocacy and Outreach, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(xxiii) Authorize employees of the Natural Resources Conservation Service to carry and use firearms for personal protection while conducting field work in remote locations in the performance of their official duties (7 U.S.C. 2274a).

(xxiv) Conduct activities that assist the Chief Economist in developing guidelines regarding the development of environmental services markets.

(xxv) Administer the Terminal Lakes assistance program authorized by section 2507 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-6).

(xxvi) Administer the state and private forest landscape-scale restoration program (16 U.S.C. 2109a).

(xxvii) Administer the following provisions of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 116-334):

(A) Section 1704 (7 U.S.C. 1308-3a), authorizing waivers of the adjusted gross income limitation.

(B) In consultation with the Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Section 2707 (16 U.S.C. 1531 note), relating to wildlife management.

(C) In coordination with the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, Section 2408 (7 U.S.C. 8351 note), relating to the Feral Swine Eradication and Control Pilot Program.

(D) Section 8628, relating to the purchase of Natural Resources Conservation Service property in Riverside County, California.

(E) Section 12302, relating to the Office of Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production.
