
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Organic Production and Handling Requirements
####### § 205.240 Pasture practice standard.
######## Provided,

(c) A pasture plan must be included in the producer's organic system plan, and be updated annually in accordance with § 205.406(a). The producer may resubmit the previous year's pasture plan when no change has occurred in the plan. The pasture plan may consist of a pasture/rangeland plan developed in cooperation with a Federal, State, or local conservation office:that, the submitted plan addresses all of the requirements of § 205.240(c)(1) through (8). When a change to an approved pasture plan is contemplated, which may affect the operation's compliance with the Act or the regulations in this part, the producer shall seek the certifying agent's agreement on the change prior to implementation. The pasture plan shall include a description of the:

(1) Types of pasture provided to ensure that the feed requirements of § 205.237 are being met.

(2) Cultural and management practices to be used to ensure pasture of a sufficient quality and quantity is available to graze throughout the grazing season and to provide all ruminants under the organic system plan, except exempted classes identified in § 205.239(c)(1) through (3), with an average of not less than 30 percent of their dry matter intake from grazing throughout the grazing season.

(3) Grazing season for the livestock operation's regional location.

(4) Location and size of pastures, including maps giving each pasture its own identification.

(5) The types of grazing methods to be used in the pasture system.

(6) Location and types of fences, except for temporary fences, and the location and source of shade and the location and source of water.

(7) Soil fertility and seeding systems.

(8) Erosion control and protection of natural wetlands and riparian areas practices.
