
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Organic Production and Handling Requirements
####### ยง 205.273 Imports to the United States.

Each shipment of organic agricultural products imported into the United States must be certified pursuant to subpart E of this part, labeled pursuant to subpart D of this part, be declared as organic to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and be associated with valid NOP Import Certificate data.

(a) Persons exporting organic agricultural products to the United States must request an NOP Import Certificate from a certifying agent prior to their export. Only certifying agents accredited by the USDA or foreign certifying agents authorized under an organic trade arrangement or agreement may issue an NOP Import Certificate.

(b) The certifying agent must review an NOP Import Certificate request and determine whether the export complies with the USDA organic regulations. The certifying agent must have and implement a documented organic control system for intaking and approving or rejecting the validity of an NOP Import Certificate request. The certifying agent shall issue the NOP Import Certificate through the Organic Integrity Database only if the export complies with the USDA organic regulations.

(c) Each compliant organic import must be declared as organic to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by entering NOP Import Certificate data into the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Automated Commercial Environment system. Organic imports must be clearly identified and marked as organic on all import documents including but not limited to invoices, packing lists, bills of lading, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection entry data. Only NOP Import Certificate data generated by the Organic Integrity Database are valid.

(d) Upon receiving a shipment with organic agricultural products, the organic importer must ensure the import is accompanied by accurate NOP Import Certificate data and must verify that the shipment has had no contact with prohibited substances pursuant to ยง 205.272 or exposure to ionizing radiation pursuant to ยง 205.105, since export. The organic importer must have a documented organic control system to conduct this verification.
