
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Labels, Labeling, and Market Information
####### ยง 205.302 Calculating the percentage of organically produced ingredients.

(a) The percentage of all organically produced ingredients in an agricultural product sold, labeled, or represented as "100 percent organic," "organic," or "made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))," or that include organic ingredients must be calculated by:

(1) Dividing the total net weight of the combined organic ingredients at formulation by the total weight of all ingredients of the product at formulation. Water and salt added as ingredients at formulation are excluded from the calculation.

(2) Dividing the total fluid volume of the combined organic ingredients at formulation by the total fluid volume of all ingredients of the product at formulation if the product and ingredients are liquid. Water and salt added as ingredients at formulation are excluded from the calculation. If the liquid product is identified on the principal display panel or information panel as being reconstituted from concentrates, the calculation should be made based on single-strength concentrations of all ingredients.

(3) For products containing organically produced ingredients in both solid and liquid form, dividing the combined net weight of the solid organic ingredients and the net weight of the liquid organic ingredients at formulation by the total weight of all ingredients of the product at formulation. Water and salt added as ingredients at formulation are excluded from the calculation.

(b) The percentage of all organically produced ingredients in an agricultural product must be rounded down to the nearest whole number.

(c) The percentage must be determined by the handler who affixes the label on the consumer package and verified by the certifying agent of the handler. The handler may use information provided by the certified operation in determining the percentage.
