
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.16 Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.
###### Related to hazardous materials management.

(9)(i) Serve on the USDA Hazardous Materials Policy Council.

(ii) Recommend actions and policies that enable USDA agencies under his or her authority to comply with the intent, purposes, and standards of environmental laws for pollution prevention, control, and abatement.

(iii) Consult with the United States Environmental Protection Agency and other appropriate Federal agencies in developing pollution prevention, control, and abatement policies and programs relating to agencies under his or her authority.

(iv) Recommend actions and policies of the loan and grant programs under his or her authority concerning compliance with the Asset Conservation, Lender Liability, and Deposit Insurance Protection Act of 1996, Subtitle E of Public Law No. 104-208.

(10) Carry out prize competition authorities in section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) related to functions otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation, except for authorities delegated to the Chief Financial Officer in ยง 2.28(a)(29) and authorities reserved to the Secretary in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(11) Administer a Century Farms Program as authorized by section 12508 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 2266a).

(12) Establish programs with any bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), or with other agencies within USDA, in support of the Service First initiative for the purpose of promoting customer service and efficiency, including delegating to employees of DOI and other USDA agencies the authorities of the agencies in the Farm Production and Conservation mission area necessary to carry out projects on behalf of USDA (43 U.S.C. 1703).

(b) The following authorities are reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture:
