
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 1 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart A - Official Records
##### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 1 - Fee Schedule
###### All other requesters

(i)are individuals and entities who do not fall into any of the four categories described in Section 2(b) paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this appendix. Requesters seeking information for personal use, public interest groups, and nonprofit organizations are examples of requesters who might fall into this group.

(ii) All other requesters are entitled to receive 100 pages of duplication without charge. Following the exhaustion of this entitlement, they will be charged fees for the duplicating of any additional pages of responsive records released. All other requesters are also entitled to receive 2 hours of search time without charge. Following the exhaustion of this entitlement, they may be charged search fees for any remaining search time required to locate the records requested. They may not be charged review fees.

(iii) If a component fails to comply with the statutory time limits in which to respond to an all-other request, as provided in 7 CFR 1.6(b), and if no unusual or exceptional circumstances, as those terms are defined by the FOIA, apply to the processing of the request, as discussed in 7 CFR 1.6(d), it may not charge search fees for the processing of the request.

(iv) If a component fails to comply with the statutory time limits in which to respond to an all-other request, as provided in 7 CFR 1.6(b), when unusual or exceptional circumstances, as those terms are defined by the FOIA, apply to the processing of the request, as discussed in 7 CFR 1.6(d), and the component notifies the requester, in writing, within the statutory 20-working day time period, that unusual or exceptional circumstances, as those terms are defined by the FOIA, apply to the processing of the request, more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, and the component has discussed with the requester by means of written mail, electronic mail, or by telephone (or has made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request, the component may charge search fees for the processing of the request as well as any applicable duplication fees. Otherwise, it may only charge applicable duplication fees.
