
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart E - Certification
####### ยง 205.403 On-site inspections.
######## On-site inspections.

(a)(1) A certifying agent must conduct an initial on-site inspection of each production unit, facility, and site that produces or handles organic products and that is included in an operation for which certification is requested. An on-site inspection shall be conducted annually thereafter for each certified operation that produces or handles organic products for the purpose of determining whether to approve the request for certification or whether the certification of the operation should continue.

(2) Inspections of a producer group operation must:

(i) Assess the internal control system's compliance, or ability to comply, with the requirements of ยง 205.400(g)(8). This must include review of the internal inspections conducted by the internal control system.

(ii) Conduct witness audits of internal control system inspectors performing inspections of the producer group operation.

(iii) Individually inspect at least 1.4 times the square root or 2% of the total number of producer group members, whichever is higher. All producer group members determined to be high risk by the certifying agent must be inspected. At least one producer group member in each producer group production unit must be inspected.

(iv) Inspect each handling facility.

(3)(i) A certifying agent may conduct additional on-site inspections of applicants for certification and certified operations to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.

(ii) The Administrator or State organic program's governing State official may require that additional inspections be performed by the certifying agent for the purpose of determining compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.

(iii) Additional inspections may be announced or unannounced at the discretion of the certifying agent or as required by the Administrator or State organic program's governing State official.
