
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart F - Accreditation of Certifying Agents
####### § 205.507 Denial of accreditation.

(a) If the Program Manager has reason to believe, based on a review of the information specified in §§ 205.503 through 205.505 or after a site evaluation as specified in § 205.508, that an applicant for accreditation is not able to comply or is not in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the regulations in this part, the Program Manager shall provide a written notification of noncompliance to the applicant. Such notification shall provide:

(1) A description of each noncompliance;

(2) The facts upon which the notification of noncompliance is based; and

(3) The date by which the applicant must rebut or correct each noncompliance and submit supporting documentation of each such correction when correction is possible.

(b) When each noncompliance has been resolved, the Program Manager will send the applicant a written notification of noncompliance resolution and proceed with further processing of the application.

(c) If an applicant fails to correct the noncompliances, fails to report the corrections by the date specified in the notification of noncompliance, fails to file a rebuttal of the notification of noncompliance by the date specified, or is unsuccessful in its rebuttal, the Program Manager will provide the applicant with written notification of accreditation denial. An applicant who has received written notification of accreditation denial may apply for accreditation again at any time in accordance with § 205.502, or appeal the denial of accreditation in accordance with § 205.681 by the date specified in the notification of accreditation denial.

(d) If the certifying agent was accredited prior to the site evaluation and the certifying agent fails to correct the noncompliances, fails to report the corrections by the date specified in the notification of noncompliance, or fails to file a rebuttal of the notification of noncompliance by the date specified, the Administrator will begin proceedings to suspend or revoke the certifying agent's accreditation. A certifying agent who has had its accreditation suspended may at any time, unless otherwise stated in the notification of suspension, submit a request to the Secretary for reinstatement of its accreditation. The request must be accompanied by evidence demonstrating correction of each noncompliance and corrective actions taken to comply with and remain in compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part. A certifying agent whose accreditation is revoked will be ineligible for accreditation for a period of not less than 3 years following the date of such determination.
