
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.17 Under Secretary for Rural Development.

(a) The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Under Secretary for Rural Development:

(1) Provide leadership and coordination within the executive branch of a Nationwide Rural Development Program utilizing the services of executive branch departments and agencies and the agencies, bureaus, offices, and services of the Department of Agriculture in coordination with rural development programs of State and local governments (7 U.S.C. 2204).

(2) Coordinate activities relative to rural development among agencies reporting to the Under Secretary for Rural Development and, through appropriate channels, serve as the coordinating official for other departmental agencies having primary responsibilities for specific titles of the Rural Development Act of 1972, and allied legislation.

(3) Administer a national program of economic, social, and environmental research and analysis, statistical programs, and associated service work related to rural people and the communities in which they live including rural industrialization; rural population and manpower; local government finance; income development strategies; housing; social services and utilization; adjustments to changing economic and technical forces; and other related matters.

(4) Work with Federal agencies in encouraging the creation of rural community development organizations.

(5) Assist other Federal agencies in making rural community development organizations aware of the Federal programs available to them.

(6) Advise rural community development organizations of the availability of Federal assistance programs.

(7) Advise other Federal agencies of the need for particular Federal programs.

(8) Assist rural community development organizations in making contact with Federal agencies whose assistance may be of benefit to them.

(9) Assist other Federal agencies and national organizations in developing means for extending their services effectively to rural areas.

(10) Assist other Federal agencies in designating pilot projects in rural areas.

(11) Conduct studies to determine how programs of the Department can be brought to bear on the economic development problems of the country and assure that local groups are receiving adequate technical assistance from Federal agencies or from local and State governments in formulating development programs and in carrying out planned development activities.

(12) Assist other Federal agencies in formulating manpower development and training policies.
