
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart F - Accreditation of Certifying Agents
####### ยง 205.510 Annual report, recordkeeping, and renewal of accreditation.
######## Renewal of accreditation.

(c)(1) The Administrator shall send the accredited certifying agent a notice of pending expiration of accreditation approximately 1 year prior to the scheduled date of expiration.

(2) An accredited certifying agent's application for accreditation renewal must be received at least 6 months prior to the fifth anniversary of issuance of the notification of accreditation and each subsequent renewal of accreditation. The accreditation of certifying agents who make timely application for renewal of accreditation will not expire during the renewal process. The accreditation of certifying agents who fail to make timely application for renewal of accreditation will expire as scheduled unless renewed prior to the scheduled expiration date. Certifying agents with an expired accreditation must not perform certification activities under the Act and the regulations of this part.

(3) Following receipt of the information submitted by the certifying agent in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and the results of a site evaluation, the Administrator will determine whether the certifying agent remains in compliance with the Act and the regulations of this part and should have its accreditation renewed.
