
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart G - Administrative
####### The National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances
######## ยง 205.601 Synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production.
######### Provided,

(2) Coppers, fixed-copper hydroxide, copper oxide, copper oxychloride, includes products exempted from EPA tolerance,That, copper-based materials must be used in a manner that minimizes accumulation in the soil and shall not be used as herbicides.

(3) Copper sulfate-Substance must be used in a manner that minimizes accumulation of copper in the soil.

(4) Hydrated lime.

(5) Hydrogen peroxide.

(6) Lime sulfur.

(7) Oils, horticultural, narrow range oils as dormant, suffocating, and summer oils.

(8) Peracetic acid-for use to control fire blight bacteria. Also permitted in hydrogen peroxide formulations as allowed in ยง 205.601(i) at concentration of no more than 6% as indicated on the pesticide product label.

(9) Potassium bicarbonate.

(10) Elemental sulfur.

(11) Polyoxin D zinc salt.

(j) As plant or soil amendments.

(1) Aquatic plant extracts (other than hydrolyzed)-Extraction process is limited to the use of potassium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide; solvent amount used is limited to that amount necessary for extraction.

(2) Elemental sulfur.

(3) Humic acids-naturally occurring deposits, water and alkali extracts only.

(4) Lignin sulfonate-chelating agent, dust suppressant.

(5) Magnesium oxide (CAS # 1309-48-4)-for use only to control the viscosity of a clay suspension agent for humates.

(6) Magnesium sulfate-allowed with a documented soil deficiency.

(7) Micronutrients-not to be used as a defoliant, herbicide, or desiccant. Those made from nitrates or chlorides are not allowed. Micronutrient deficiency must be documented by soil or tissue testing or other documented and verifiable method as approved by the certifying agent.

(i) Soluble boron products.

(ii) Sulfates, carbonates, oxides, or silicates of zinc, copper, iron, manganese, molybdenum, selenium, and cobalt.

(8) Liquid fish products-can be pH adjusted with sulfuric, citric or phosphoric acid. The amount of acid used shall not exceed the minimum needed to lower the pH to 3.5.

(9) Vitamins, C and E.

(10) Squid byproducts-from food waste processing only. Can be pH adjusted with sulfuric, citric, or phosphoric acid. The amount of acid used shall not exceed the minimum needed to lower the pH to 3.5.

(11) Sulfurous acid (CAS # 7782-99-2) for on-farm generation of substance utilizing 99% purity elemental sulfur per paragraph (j)(2) of this section.

(k) As plant growth regulators.

(1) Ethylene gas-for regulation of pineapple flowering.

(2) Fatty alcohols (C6, C8, C10, and/or C12)-for sucker control in organic tobacco production.

(l) As floating agents in postharvest handling. Sodium silicate-for tree fruit and fiber processing.

(m) As synthetic inert ingredients as classified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), for use with nonsynthetic substances or synthetic substances listed in this section and used as an active pesticide ingredient in accordance with any limitations on the use of such substances.

(1) EPA List 4-Inerts of Minimal Concern.

(2) EPA List 3-Inerts of unknown toxicity-for use only in passive pheromone dispensers.

(n) Seed preparations. Hydrogen chloride (CAS # 7647-01-0)-for delinting cotton seed for planting.

(o) Production aids.

(1) Microcrystalline cheesewax (CAS #'s 64742-42-3, 8009-03-08, and 8002-74-2)-for use in log grown mushroom production. Must be made without either ethylene-propylene co-polymer or synthetic colors.

(2) Paper-based crop planting aids as defined in ยง 205.2. Virgin or recycled paper without glossy paper or colored inks.

(p)-(z) [Reserved]
