
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart G - Administrative
####### The National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances
######## ยง 205.603 Synthetic substances allowed for use in organic livestock production.
######### Provided,

(25) Phosphoric acid-allowed as an equipment cleaner,That, no direct contact with organically managed livestock or land occurs.

(26) Poloxalene (CAS #-9003-11-6)-for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires that poloxalene only be used for the emergency treatment of bloat.

(27) Propylene glycol (CAS #57-55-6)-only for treatment of ketosis in ruminants.

(28) Sodium chlorite, acidified-allowed for use on organic livestock as a teat dip treatment only.

(29) Tolazoline (CAS #59-98-3)-federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian, in full compliance with the AMDUCA and 21 CFR part 530 of the Food and Drug Administration regulations. Also, for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires:

(i) Use by or on the lawful written order of a licensed veterinarian;

(ii) Use only to reverse the effects of sedation and analgesia caused by Xylazine; and,

(iii) A meat withdrawal period of at least 8 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter; and a milk discard period of at least 4 days after administering to dairy animals.

(30) Xylazine (CAS #7361-61-7)-federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian, in full compliance with the AMDUCA and 21 CFR part 530 of the Food and Drug Administration regulations. Also, for use under 7 CFR part 205, the NOP requires:

(i) Use by or on the lawful written order of a licensed veterinarian; and,

(ii) A meat withdrawal period of at least 8 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter; and a milk discard period of at least 4 days after administering to dairy animals.

(b) As topical treatment, external parasiticide or local anesthetic as applicable.

(1) Copper sulfate.

(2) Elemental sulfur-for treatment of livestock and livestock housing.

(3) Formic acid (CAS # 64-18-6)-for use as a pesticide solely within honeybee hives.

(4) Iodine.

(5) Lidocaine-as a local anesthetic. Use requires a withdrawal period of 8 days after administering to livestock intended for slaughter and 6 days after administering to dairy animals.

(6) Lime, hydrated-as an external pest control, not permitted to cauterize physical alterations or deodorize animal wastes.

(7) Mineral oil-for topical use and as a lubricant.

(8) Oxalic acid dihydrate-for use as a pesticide solely for apiculture.

(9) Sodium chlorite, acidified-allowed for use on organic livestock as teat dip treatment only.

(10) Sucrose octanoate esters (CAS #s-42922-74-7; 58064-47-4)-in accordance with approved labeling.

(11) Zinc sulfate-for use in hoof and foot treatments only.

(c) As feed supplements-None.

(d) As feed additives.

(1) DL-Methionine, DL-Methionine-hydroxy analog, and DL-Methionine-hydroxy analog calcium (CAS #'s 59-51-8, 583-91-5, 4857-44-7, and 922-50-9)-for use only in organic poultry production at the following pounds of synthetic 100 percent methionine per ton of feed in the diet, maximum rates as averaged per ton of feed over the life of the flock: Laying chickens-2 pounds; broiler chickens-2.5 pounds; turkeys and all other poultry-3 pounds.

(2) Trace minerals, used for enrichment or fortification when FDA approved.

(3) Vitamins, used for enrichment or fortification when FDA approved.

(e) As synthetic inert ingredients as classified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), for use with nonsynthetic substances or synthetic substances listed in this section and used as an active pesticide ingredient in accordance with any limitations on the use of such substances.

(1) EPA List 4-Inerts of Minimal Concern.

(2) [Reserved]

(f) Excipients-only for use in the manufacture of drugs and biologics used to treat organic livestock when the excipient is: (1) Identified by the FDA as Generally Recognized As Safe; (2) Approved by the FDA as a food additive; (3) Included in the FDA review and approval of a New Animal Drug Application or New Drug Application; or (4) Approved by APHIS for use in veterinary biologics.

(g)-(z) [Reserved]
