
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter I - Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter M - Organic Foods Production Act Provisions
##### PART 205 - NATIONAL ORGANIC PROGRAM
###### Subpart G - Administrative
####### Compliance
######## ยง 205.663 Mediation.

(a) A certifying agent must submit with its administrative policies and procedures: decision criteria for acceptance of mediation, and a process for identifying personnel conducting mediation and setting up mediation sessions per ยง 205.504(b)(8).

(b) A certified operation or applicant for certification may request mediation to resolve a denial of certification or proposed suspension or proposed revocation of certification issued by a certifying agent or State organic program.

(1) A certified operation or applicant for certification must submit any request for mediation in writing to the applicable certifying agent or State organic program within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notice of proposed suspension or proposed revocation of certification or denial of certification.

(2) A certifying agent or State organic program may accept or reject a request for mediation based on the decision criteria required in paragraph (a) of this section. Certifying agents must document these criteria and how the certifying agent applied the criteria to the request.

(3) If a certifying agent rejects a mediation request, it must provide this rejection, and the justification for the rejection, in writing to the applicant for certification or certified operation. The rejection must include the right to request an appeal, pursuant to ยง 205.681, within 30 calendar days of the date of receipt of the written notification of rejection of the request for mediation.

(4) When an operation appeals a rejection of mediation, the adverse action which is contested must not be finalized during the appeal proceeding.

(c) Both parties must agree on the person conducting the mediation.

(d) If a State organic program is in effect, the parties must follow the mediation procedures established in the State organic program and approved by the Secretary.

(e) The parties to the mediation have a maximum of 30 calendar days from the start of mediation to reach an agreement. Successful mediation results in a settlement agreement agreed to in writing by both the certifying agent and the certified operation. If mediation is unsuccessful, the applicant for certification or certified operation has 30 calendar days from receipt of a written notice of termination of mediation to appeal the denial of certification or proposed suspension or revocation pursuant to ยง 205.681.

(f) Any settlement agreement reached through mediation must comply with the Act and the regulations in this part. The Program Manager may review any mediated settlement agreement for conformity to the Act and the regulations in this part and may reject any agreement or provision not in conformance with the Act or the regulations in this part.

(g) The Program Manager may propose mediation and enter into a settlement agreement at any time to resolve any adverse action notice.
