
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.17 Under Secretary for Rural Development.
###### et seq.

(viii) Administer the Distance Learning and Medical Link Programs (7 U.S.C. 950aaa).

(ix) Administer Water and Waste Facility Programs and activities (7 U.S.C. 1926-1).

(x) Consult with the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information to assist in the verification of eligibility of the broadband loan and grant programs of the Department of Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 950bb-6).

(xi) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(xii) Administer section 6407 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107a), relating to a rural energy savings program.

(xiii) Administer section 6210 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79, relating to funding of pending rural development loan and grant applications.

(xiv) Administer the authority under section 746 of Division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub. L. 115-141), and any successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts, to issue waivers to the U.S. iron and steel requirements for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public water or wastewater system.

(xv) In coordination with the Federal Communications Commission, administer Section 12511 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-334) relating to the precision agriculture connectivity task force.
