
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.17 Under Secretary for Rural Development.
###### et seq.

(xv) Administer in rural areas the process of designation, provision of monitoring and oversight, and provision of technical assistance for Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities pursuant to section 13301 of Public Law 103-66, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (26 U.S.C. 1391)

(xvi) Work with Federal agencies in encouraging the creation of local rural community development organizations. Within a State, assist other Federal agencies in developing means for extending their services effectively to rural areas and in designating pilot projects in rural areas (7 U.S.C. 2204).

(xvii) Conduct assessments to determine how programs of the Department can be brought to bear on the economic development problems of a State or local area and assure that local groups are receiving adequate and effective technical assistance from Federal agencies or from local and State governments in formulating development programs and in carrying out planned development activities (7 U.S.C. 2204b).

(xviii) Develop a process through which State, sub-state and local rural development needs, goals, objectives, plans, and recommendations can be received and assessed on a continuing basis (7 U.S.C. 2204b).

(xix) Prepare local or area-wide rural development strategies based on the needs, goals, objectives, plans and recommendations of local communities, sub-state areas and States (7 U.S.C. 2204b).

(xx) Develop a system of outreach in the State or local area to promote rural development and provide for the publication and dissemination of information, through multi-media methods, relating to rural development. Advise local rural development organizations of availability of Federal programs and the type of assistance available, and assist in making contact with Federal program (7 U.S.C. 2204; 7 U.S.C. 2204b).

(xxi) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Marketing and Regulatory Programs, administer the value-added producer grants program and farmers' markets and local food promotion program (7 U.S.C. 1627c(d)(5)-(6)).

(xxii) Administer the Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration program (7 U.S.C. 1632b).

(xxiii) Administer the renewable energy programs authorized in sections 9003, 9004, 9005, 9007, and 9009 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103, 8104, 8105, 8107, and 8109).

(xxiv) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(xxv) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).

(xxvi) Administer the Healthy Food Financing Initiative under section 243 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6953).

(xxvii) Administer section 6209 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 2207b), relating to the collection and reporting of program metrics.

(xxviii) Implementation of a program for the Federal procurement of biobased products and of a voluntary "USDA Certified Biobased product" labeling program (7 U.S.C. 8102).

(xxix) Entering into cooperative agreements to further research programs in the food and agricultural sciences, related to establishing and implementing Federal biobased procurement and voluntary biobased labeling programs (7 U.S.C. 3318).
