
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.17 Under Secretary for Rural Development.
###### et seq.

(ii) Administer title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471), except those functions pertaining to research.

(iii) In consultation with the Department of Justice, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and Secretary of Health and Human Services, administer the emergency and transitional pet shelter and housing assistance grant program (34 U.S.C. 20127).

(iv) Administer the Rural Housing Disaster Program under sections 232, 234, and 253 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 (Pub. L. No. 91-606).

(v) Exercise all authority and discretion vested in the Secretary by section 510(d) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended by section 1045 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988, Pub. L. 100-628 (42 U.S.C. 1480(d)), including the following:

(A) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the Department of Justice for the conduct of litigation, and refer such actions to the Department of Justice through the General Counsel;

(B) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the General Counsel for the conduct of litigation and refer such actions; and

(C) Enter into contracts with private sector attorneys for the conduct of litigation, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, after determining that the attorneys will provide competent and cost effective representation for the Rural Housing Service and representation by the attorney will either accelerate the process by which a family or person eligible for assistance under section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949 will be able to purchase and occupy the housing involved, or preserve the quality of the housing involved.

(vi) Administer the Rural Firefighters and Emergency Personnel Grant program (7 U.S.C. 2655).

(vii) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).

(viii) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).
