
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 210 - NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Requirements for School Food Authority Participation
####### § 210.16 Food service management companies.
######## Invitation to bid.

(b)In addition to adhering to the procurement standards under § 210.21, school food authorities contracting with food service management companies shall ensure that:

(1) The invitation to bid or request for proposal contains a 21-day cycle menu developed in accordance with the provisions of § 210.10, to be used as a standard for the purpose of basing bids or estimating average cost per meal. A school food authority with no capability to prepare a cycle menu may, with State agency approval, require that each food service management company include a 21-day cycle menu, developed in accordance with the provisions of § 210.10, with its bid or proposal. The food service management company must adhere to the cycle for the first 21 days of meal service. Changes thereafter may be made with the approval of the school food authority.

(2) Any invitation to bid or request for proposal indicate that nonperformance subjects the food service management company to specified sanctions in instances where the food service management company violates or breaches contract terms. The school food authority shall indicate these sanctions in accordance with the procurement provisions stated in § 210.21.
