
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 210 - NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Requirements for State Agency Participation
####### ยง 210.19 Additional responsibilities.
######## Food service management companies.

(5)Each State agency shall annually review each contract (including all supporting documentation) between any school food authority and food service management company to ensure compliance with all the provisions and standards set forth in this part before execution of the contract by either party. When the State agency develops a prototype contract for use by the school food authority that meets the provisions and standards set forth in this part, this annual review may be limited to changes made to that contract. Each State agency shall review each contract amendment between a school food authority and food service management company to ensure compliance with all the provisions and standards set forth in this part before execution of the amended contract by either party. The State agency may establish due dates for submission of the contract or contract amendment documents. Each State agency shall perform a review of each school food authority contracting with a food service management company, at least once during each 3-year period. Such reviews shall include an assessment of the school food authority's compliance with ยง 210.16 of this part. The State agency may require that all food service management companies that wish to contract for food service with any school food authority in the State register with the State agency. State agencies shall provide assistance upon request of a school food authority to assure compliance with Program requirements.
