
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 210 - NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM
###### Subpart D - Requirements for State Agency Participation
####### ยง 210.19 Additional responsibilities.
######## General principles.

(2)When taking fiscal action, State agencies shall consider the following:

(i) The State agency shall identify the school food authority's correct entitlement and take fiscal action when any school food authority claims or receives more Federal funds than earned under ยง 210.7 of this part. In order to take fiscal action, the State agency shall identify accurate counts of reimbursable meals through available data, if possible. In the absence of reliable data, the State agency shall reconstruct the meal accounts in accordance with procedures established by FNS.

(ii) Unless otherwise specified under ยง 210.18(l) of this part, fiscal action shall be extended back to the beginning of the school year or that point in time during the current school year when the infraction first occurred, as applicable. Based on the severity and longevity of the problem, the State agency may extend fiscal action back to previous school years, as applicable. The State agency shall ensure that any Claim for Reimbursement, filed subsequent to the reviews conducted under ยง 210.18 and prior to the implementation of corrective action, is limited to meals eligible for reimbursement under this part.

(iii) In taking fiscal action, State agencies shall assume that children determined by the reviewer to be incorrectly approved for free and reduced price meals participated at the same rate as correctly approved children in the corresponding meal category.
