
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.19 Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services.
###### et seq.

(L) Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983, as amended (7 U.S.C. 7501);

(M) Sections 3(b)-(i), 3A and 4 of the Commodity Distribution Reform Act and WIC Amendments of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); and

(N) Section 110 of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 612c note).

(iii) Administer those functions relating to the distribution of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits under section 412 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5179).

(iv) In connection with the functions assigned in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section, relating to the distribution and donation of agricultural commodities and products thereof and supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits to eligible recipients, authority to determine the requirements for such agricultural commodities and products thereof and supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits to be so distributed.

(v) Develop food plans for use in establishing supplemental nutrition assistance benefit levels, and assess the nutritional impact of Federal food programs.

(vi) Administer those functions under title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612) relating to the eligibility of aliens for benefits under the domestic food assistance programs.

(vii) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79:

(A) Section 4004(b), relating to a demonstration project regarding the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (7 U.S.C. 2013 note).

(B) Section 4031, relating to a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands pilot program regarding the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (48 U.S.C. 1841 note).

(C) Section 4032, relating to annual State reporting on verification of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program participation (7 U.S.C. 2036c).

(D) Section 4033, relating to service of traditional foods in public facilities (25 U.S.C. 443d).

(E) Section 4214, relating to a pilot project for canned, frozen, or dried fruits and vegetables as part of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769a note).

(viii) Administer section 301 of the National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990, relating to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans (7 U.S.C. 5341).

(ix) Implement section 242 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6952), relating to establishment of a multiagency task force for the purpose of providing coordination and direction for commodity programs.
