
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.19 Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services.
###### Related to human nutrition information.

(3)(i) Develop techniques and equipment to assist consumers in the home and in institutions in selecting food that supplies a nutritionally adequate diet.

(ii) Develop family food plans at different costs for use as standards by families of different sizes, sex-age composition, and economic levels.

(iii) Develop suitable and safe preparation and management procedures to retain nutritional and eating qualities of food served in homes and institutions.

(iv) Develop materials to aid the public in meeting dietary needs, with emphasis on food selection for good nutrition and appropriate cost, and food preparation to avoid waste, maximize nutrient retention, minimize food safety hazards, and conserve energy.

(v) Develop food plans for use in establishing food stamp benefit levels, and assess the nutritional impact of Federal food programs.

(vi) Coordinate nutrition education promotion and professional education projects within the Department.

(vii) Analyze data from food consumption surveys in coordination with the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics to provide a basis for evaluating dietary adequacy.

(viii) Consult with the Federal and State agencies, the Congress, universities, and other public and private organizations and the general public regarding household food consumption, individual intake, and dietary adequacy, and implications of the survey on public policy regarding food and nutrition policies (7 U.S.C. 3171-3175).

(ix) In conjunction with the Department of Health and Human Services, administer section 4403 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 5311a).

(x) Enter into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements in accordance with section 1472 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3318).
