
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.20 Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment.
###### et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(ii) Represent USDA on Regional Response Teams on hazardous spills and oil spills pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601), the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251), the Oil Pollution Act (OPA), as amended (33 U.S.C. 2701), Executive Order 12580, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193, Executive Order 12777, 3 CFR, 1991 Comp., p. 351, and the National Contingency Plan, 40 CFR part 300.

(iii) Represent USDA in contacts with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the Council on Environmental Quality, and other organizations or agencies on matters related to assigned responsibilities.

(iv) Formulate and promulgate USDA policy relating to environmental activity and natural resources.

(v) Provide staff support for the Secretary in the review of environmental impact statements.

(vi) Provide leadership in USDA for general land use activities including implementation of Executive Order 11988, Flood Plain Management, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 117, and Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 121.

(vii) Take such action as may be necessary, including issuance of administrative orders, and enter into agreements with any person to perform any response action under sections 106(a) and 122 (except subsection (b)(1)) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9606(a), 9622), pursuant to sections 4(c)(3) and 4(d)(3) of Executive Order No. 12580, as amended by Executive Order No. 13016, to be exercised only with the concurrence of the General Counsel.

(viii) Exercise the functions of the Secretary of Agriculture authorized in Title V of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1998, Pub. L. 105-83, relating to the acquisition of the New World Mine and other priority land acquisitions, land exchanges, and other activities.

(ix) Serve on the USDA Hazardous Materials Policy Council.

(x) Recommend actions and policies that enable agencies under his or her authority to comply with the intent, purposes, and standards of environmental laws for pollution prevention, control, and abatement.

(xi) Consult with the United States Environmental Protection Agency and other appropriate Federal agencies in developing pollution prevention, control, and abatement policies and programs relating to agencies under his or her authority.
