
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 215 - SPECIAL MILK PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN
###### § 215.11 Special responsibilities of State agencies.
####### Program assistance.

(b)Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall provide Program assistance, as follows:

(1) Consultive, technical, and managerial personnel to administer the Program and monitor performance of schools and child-care institutions and to measure progress toward achieving Program goals.

(2) Visits to participating schools and child-care institutions to ensure compliance with Program regulations and with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations (part 15 of this title), issued under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. State agencies shall conduct reviews of schools participating in the Program for compliance with the provisions of this part when such schools are being reviewed under the provisions identified under § 210.18 of this title. Compliance reviews of participating schools shall focus on the reviewed school's compliance with the required certification, counting, claiming, and milk service procedures. School food authorities may appeal a denial of all or a part of the Claim for Reimbursement or withholding of payment arising from review activity conducted by the State agency under § 210.18 of this title or by FNS under § 210.30(d)(2) of this title. Any such appeal shall be subject to the procedures set forth under § 210.18(q) of this title or § 210.30(d)(3) of this title, as appropriate.

(3) Documentation of such Program assistance shall be maintained on file by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable.
