
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.20 Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment.
###### Related to forestry.

(2)(i) Provide national leadership in forestry. (As used here and elsewhere in this section, the term "forestry" encompasses renewable and nonrenewable resources of forests, including lands governed by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, forest-related rangeland, grassland, brushland, woodland, and alpine areas including but not limited to recreation, range, timber, minerals, watershed, wildlife and fish; natural scenic, scientific, cultural, and historic values of forests and related lands; and derivative values such as economic strength and social well-being).

(ii) Protect, manage, and administer the national forests, national forest purchase units, national grasslands, and other lands and interests in lands administered by the Forest Service, which collectively are designated as the National Forest System.

(iii) Acquire, dispose of, and lease lands and interests in lands as may be authorized for the protection, management, and administration of the National Forest System, including the authority to approve acquisition of land under the Weeks Act of March 1, 1911, as amended (16 U.S.C. 521), and special forest receipts acts, as follows: (Pub. L. 337, 74th Cong., 49 Stat. 866, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 505, 75th Cong., 52 Stat. 347, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 634, 75th Cong., 52 Stat. 699, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 748, 75th Cong., 52 Stat. 1205, as amended by Pub. L. 310, 78th Cong., 58 Stat. 227; Pub. L. 427, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 46; Pub. L. 589, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 297; Pub. L. 591, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 299; Pub. L. 637, 76th Cong., 54 Stat. 402; Pub. L. 781, 84th Cong., 70 Stat. 632).

(iv) As necessary for administrative purposes, divide into and designate as national forests any lands of 3,000 acres or more which are acquired under or subject to the Weeks Act of March 1, 1911, as amended, and which are contiguous to existing national forest boundaries established under the authority of the Weeks Act.
