
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.20 Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment.
###### o.

(v) Plan and administer wildlife and fish conservation rehabilitation and habitat management programs on National Forest System lands, pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 670g, 670h, and 670

(vi) For the purposes of the National Forest System Drug Control Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 559b-559g), specifically designate certain specially trained officers and employees of the Forest Service, not exceeding 500, to have authority in the performance of their duties within the boundaries of the National Forest System:

(A) To carry firearms;

(B) To enforce and conduct investigations of violations of section 401 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 841) and other criminal violations relating to marijuana and other controlled substances that are manufactured, distributed, or dispensed on National Forest System lands;

(C) To make arrests with a warrant or process for misdemeanor violations, or without a warrant for violations of such misdemeanors that any such officer or employee has probable cause to believe are being committed in that employee's presence or view, or for a felony with a warrant or without a warrant if that employee has probable cause to believe that the person being arrested has committed or is committing such a felony;

(D) To serve warrants and other process issued by a court or officer of competent jurisdiction;

(E) To search, with or without a warrant or process, any person, place, or conveyance according to Federal law or rule of law; and

(F) To seize, with or without warrant or process, any evidentiary item according to Federal law or rule of law.

(vii) Authorize the Forest Service to cooperate with the law enforcement officials of any Federal agency, State, or political subdivision, in the investigation of violations of, and enforcement of, section 401 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 841), other laws and regulations relating to marijuana and other controlled substances, and State drug control laws or ordinances, within the boundaries of the National Forest System.

(viii) Administer programs under section 23 of the Federal Highway Act (23 U.S.C. 101(a), 120(f), 125(a)-(c), 138, 202(a)-(b), 203, 204(a)-(c), 205(a)-(d), 211, 317, 402(a)).

(ix) Exercise the administrative appeal review functions of the Secretary of Agriculture for decisions of the Chief of the Forest Service pursuant to 36 CFR parts 214, 218, and 219.

(x) Conduct, support, and cooperate in investigations, experiments, tests, and other activities deemed necessary to obtain, analyze, develop, demonstrate, and disseminate scientific information about protecting, managing, and utilizing forest and rangeland renewable resources in rural, suburban, and urban areas in the United States and foreign countries. The activities conducted, supported, or cooperated in shall include, but not be limited to: Renewable resource management research, renewable resource environmental research; renewable resource protection research; renewable resource utilization research, and renewable resource assessment research (16 U.S.C. 1641-1647).

(xi) Use authorities and means available to disseminate the knowledge and technology developed from forestry research (16 U.S.C. 1645).

(xii) Coordinate activities with other agencies in USDA, other Federal and State agencies, forestry schools, and private entities and individuals (16 U.S.C. 1643).

(xiii) Enter into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements for the support of scientific research in forestry activities (7 U.S.C. 3105, 1624; 16 U.S.C. 582a-8, 1643-1645, 1649).

(xiv) Enter into cooperative research and development agreements with industry, universities, and others; institute a cash award program to reward scientific, engineering, and technical personnel; award royalties to inventors; and retain and use royalty income (15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c).

(xv) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3152, 3318).

(xvi) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research, extension, or teaching activities (7 U.S.C. 3319a).

(xvii) Administer programs of cooperative forestry assistance in the protection, conservation, and multiple resource management of forests and related resources in both rural and urban areas and forest lands in foreign countries (16 U.S.C. 2101-2114).

(xviii) Provide assistance to States and other units of government in forest resources planning and forestry rural revitalization (7 U.S.C. 6601, 6611-6617; 16 U.S.C. 2107).

(xix) Conduct a program of technology implementation for State forestry personnel, private forest landowners and managers, vendors, forest operators, public agencies, and individuals (16 U.S.C. 2107).

(xx) Administer Rural Fire Protection and Control Programs (16 U.S.C. 2106c).

(xxi) Provide technical assistance on forestry technology or the implementation of the Conservation Reserve and Softwood Timber Programs authorized in sections 1231-1244 and 1254 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3844; 7 U.S.C. 1981 note).

(xxii) Administer forest insect, disease, and other pest management programs (16 U.S.C. 2104).

(xxiii) Exercise the custodial functions of the Secretary for lands and interests in lands under lease or contract of sale to States and local agencies pursuant to title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act and administer reserved and reversionary interests in lands conveyed under that Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1013a).

(xxiv) Under such general program criteria and procedures as may be established by the Natural Resources Conservation Service:
