
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 215 - SPECIAL MILK PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN
###### ยง 215.17 Program information.

School Food Authorities and child-care institutions desiring information concerning the Program should write to their State educational agency, or the appropriate Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office of FNS as indicated below:

(a) In the States of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont: Northeast Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 10 Causeway Street, Room 501, Boston, Massachusetts 02222-1065.

(b) In the States of Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Virginia, Virgin Islands, and West Virginia: Mid-Atlantic Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 300 Corporate Boulevard, Robbinsville, New Jersey 08691-1598.

(c) In the States of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee: Southeast Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 61 Forsyth Street SW., Room 8T36, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.

(d) In the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin: Midwest Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, 20th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60604-3507.

(e) In the States of Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas: Southwest Regional Office, Food and Nutrition Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1100 Commerce Street, Room 5-C-30, Dallas, Texas 75242.

(f) In the States of Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Washington: Western Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 90 Seventh Street, Suite 10-100, San Francisco, California 94103-6701.

(g) In the States of Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming: Mountain Plains Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1244 Speer Boulevard, Suite 903, Denver, Colorado 80204.
