
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.20 Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment.
###### et seq.

(xlvi) Administer the programs authorized by the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6501), except for the Healthy Forests Reserve Program authorized in title V of such act (16 U.S.C. 6571-6578).

(xlvii) Administer Good Neighbor contracts and cooperative agreements with a State to carry out forest, rangeland, and watershed restoration services on National Forest System lands (16 U.S.C. 2113a).

(xlviii) Utilize the Agriculture Conservation Experienced Services (ACES) Program (16 U.S.C. 3851) to provide technical services for conservation-related programs and authorities carried out on National Forest System lands (16 U.S.C. 3851a).

(xlix) Enter into reciprocal fire agreements or contracts with domestic entities. Administer reimbursements received for fire suppression (42 U.S.C. 1856-1856e).

(l) Administer the large airtanker and aerial asset lease program (16 U.S.C. 551c).

(li) Provide technical and other assistance with respect to eligibility of forest products for the "USDA Certified Biobased Products" labeling program (7 U.S.C. 8102(g)).

(lii) Cooperate with public or private entities or individuals to perform work on state, county, municipal, or private lands within or near the boundary of National Forest System lands for administration, protection, improvement, reforestation, and other kinds of work the Forest Service is authorized to do on National Forest System lands, and cooperate with public or private entities or individuals to perform the same kinds of work in connection with the use or occupancy of National Forest System lands (16 U.S.C. 572).

(liii) Enter into reciprocal fire agreements with foreign fire organizations. (42 U.S.C. 1856m-1856o).

(liv) Administer the payments to states program (16 U.S.C. 500; 16 U.S.C. 7101-7153); establish, maintain, and appoint members to Resource Advisory Committees (16 U.S.C. 7125).

(lv) Conduct performance-driven research and development, education, and technical assistance for the purpose of facilitating the use of innovative wood products in wood building construction in the United States (7 U.S.C. 7655c) and administer the Wood Innovation Grant program (7 U.S.C. 7655d).

(lvi) Furnish subsistence to employees without consideration as, or deduction from, the compensation of such employees where warranted by emergency conditions connected with the work of the Forest Service (7 U.S.C. 2228).

(3) [Reserved]
