
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 220 - SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM
###### § 220.7 Requirements for participation.

(a) The School Food Authority shall make written application to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for any school in which it desires to operate the School Breakfast Program, if such school did not participate in the Program in the prior fiscal year. The School Food Authority shall also submit for approval, either with the application or at the request of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, a free and reduced price policy statement in accordance with part 245 of this chapter. A School Food Authority which simultaneously makes application for the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program shall submit one free and reduced price policy statement which shall provide that the terms, conditions, and eligibility criteria set forth in such policy statement shall apply to the service of free and reduced price lunches and to the service of free and reduced price breakfasts. If, at the time application is made for the School Breakfast Program, a School Food Authority has an approved free and reduced price policy statement on file with the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for the National School Lunch Program, it need only confirm in writing that such approved policy statement will also apply to the operation of its School Breakfast Program. Applications for the School Breakfast Program shall not be approved in the absence of an approved free and reduced price policy statement.

(1) A school which also either participates in the National School Lunch Program or only receives donations of commodities for its nonprofit lunch program under the provisions of part 250 of this chapter (commodity only school) shall apply the same set of eligibility criteria so that children who are eligible for free lunches shall also be eligible for free breakfasts and children who are eligible for reduced price lunches shall also be eligible for reduced price breakfasts.

(2) Schools shall obtain a minimum of two food safety inspections per school year conducted by a State or local governmental agency responsible for food safety inspections. Schools participating in more than one child nutrition program shall only be required to obtain a minimum of two food safety inspections per school year if the food preparation and service for all meal programs take place at the same facility. Schools shall post in a publicly visible location a report of the most recent inspection conducted, and provide a copy of the inspection report to a member of the public upon request.

(3) The school food authority must implement a food safety program meeting the requirements of §§ 210.13(c) and 210.15(b)(5) of this chapter at each facility or part of a facility where food is stored, prepared, or served.

(b) Applications shall solicit information in sufficient detail to enable the State agency to determine whether the School Food Authority is eligible to participate in the Program and extent of the need for Program payments.

(c) Within the funds available to them, State agencies, or FNSRO's where applicable, shall approve for participation in the School Breakfast Program any school making application and agreeing to carry out the program in accordance with this part. State agencies, or FNSRO's where applicable, have a positive obligation, however, to extend the benefits of the School Breakfast Program to children attending schools in areas where poor economic conditions exist.

(d)(1) Any school food authority (including a State agency acting in the capacity of a school food authority) may contract with a food service management company to manage its food service operation in one or more of its schools. However, no school or school food authority may contract with a food service management company to operate an a la carte food service unless the company agrees to offer free, reduced price and paid reimbursable breakfasts to all eligible children. Any school food authority that employs a food service management company in the operation of its nonprofit school food service shall:

(i) Adhere to the procurement standards specified in § 220.16 when contracting with the food service management company;

(ii) Ensure that the food service operation is in conformance with the school food authority's agreement under the Program;

(iii) Monitor the food service operation through periodic on-site visits;

(iv) Retain control of the quality, extent, and general nature of its food service, and the prices to be charged the children for meals;

(v) Retain signature authority on the State agency-school food authority agreement, free and reduced price policy statement and claims;

(vi) Ensure that all federally donated foods received by the school food authority and made available to the food service management company accrue only to the benefit of the school food authority's nonprofit school food service and are fully utilized therein;

(vii) Maintain applicable health certification and assure that all State and local regulations are being met by a food service management company preparing or serving meals at a school food authority facility;

(viii) Obtain written approval of invitations for bids and requests for proposals before their issuance when required by the State agency. The school food authority must incorporate all State agency required changes to its solicitation documents before issuing those documents; and

(ix) Ensure that the State agency has reviewed and approved the contract terms and the school food authority has incorporated all State agency required changes into the contract or amendment before any contract or amendment to an existing food service management company contract is executed. Any changes made by the school food authority or a food service management company to a State agency pre-approved prototype contract or State agency approved contract term must be approved in writing by the State agency before the contract is executed. When requested, the school food authority must submit all procurement documents, including responses submitted by potential contractors, to the State agency, by the due date established by the State agency.

(2) In addition to adhering to the procurement standards under this part, school food authorities contracting with food service management companies shall ensure that:

(i) The invitation to bid or request for proposal contains a 21-day cycle menu developed in accordance with the provisions of § 220.8, to be used as a standard for the purpose of basing bids or estimating average cost per meal. A school food authority with no capability to prepare a cycle menu may, with State agency approval, require that each food service management company include a 21-day cycle menu, developed in accordance with the provisions of § 220.8, with its bid or proposal. The food service management company must adhere to the cycle for the first 21 days of meal service. Changes thereafter may be made with the approval of the school food authority; and

(ii) Any invitation to bid or request for proposal indicate that nonperformance subjects the food service management company to specified sanctions in instances where the food service management company violates or breaches contract terms. The school food authority shall indicate these sanctions in accordance with the procurement provisions stated in § 220.16.

(3) Contracts that permit all income and expenses to accrue to the food service management company and "cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost" and "cost-plus-a-percentage-of-income" contracts are prohibited. Contracts that provide for fixed fees such as those that provide for management fees established on a per meal basis are allowed. Contractual agreements with food service management companies shall include provisions which ensure that the requirements of this section are met. Such agreements shall also include the following requirements:

(i) The food service management company shall maintain such records as the school food authority will need to support its Claim for Reimbursement under this part, and shall, at a minimum, report claim information to the school food authority promptly at the end of each month. Such records shall be made available to the school food authority, upon request, and shall be available for a period of 3 years from the date of the submission of the final Financial Status Report, for inspection and audit by representatives of the State agency, of the Department, and of the Government Accountability Office at any reasonable time and place. If audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period (as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit);

(ii) The food service management company shall have State or local health certification for any facility outside the school in which it proposes to prepare meals and the food service management company shall maintain this health certification for the duration of the contract; and

(iii) No payment is to be made for meals that are spoiled or unwholesome at time of delivery, do not meet detailed specifications as developed by the school food authority for each food component specified in § 220.8, or do not otherwise meet the requirements of the contract. Specifications shall cover items such a grade, purchase units, style, condition, weight, ingredients, formulations, and delivery time.

(4) The contract between a school food authority and food service management company shall be of a duration of no longer than 1 year and options for the yearly renewal of the contract shall not exceed 4 additional years. All contracts shall include a termination clause whereby either party may cancel for cause with 60-day notification.

(e) Each school food authority approved to participate in the program shall enter into a written agreement with the State agency or the Department through the FNSRO, as applicable, that may be amended as necessary. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the ability of the State agency or the FNSRO to suspend or terminate the agreement in accordance with § 220.18. If a single State agency administers any combination of the Child Nutrition Programs, that State agency shall provide each SFA with a single agreement with respect to the operation of those programs. Such agreements shall provide that the School Food Authority shall, with respect to participating schools under its jurisdiction:

(1)(i) Maintain a nonprofit school food service;
