
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 220 - SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM
###### ยง 220.9 Reimbursement payments.

(a) State agencies, or FNSRO's where applicable, shall make reimbursement payments to schools only in connection with breakfasts meeting the requirements of ยง 220.8, and reported in accordance with ยง 220.11(b) of this part. School Food Authorities shall plan for and prepare breakfasts on the basis of participation trends, with the objective of providing one breakfast per child per day. Production and participation records shall be maintained to demonstrate positive action toward this objective. In recognition of the fluctuation in participation levels which makes it difficult to precisely estimate the number of breakfasts needed and to reduce the resultant waste, any excess breakfasts that are prepared may be served to eligible children and may be claimed for reimbursement unless the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, determines that the School Food Authority has failed to plan and prepare breakfasts with the objective of providing one breakfast per child per day. In no event shall the School Food Authority claim reimbursement for free and reduced price breakfasts in excess of the number of children approved for free and reduced price meals.

(b) The rates of reimbursement for breakfasts served to eligible children in schools not in severe need are the applicable national average payment factors for breakfasts. The maximum rates of reimbursement for breakfasts served to eligible children in schools determined to be in severe need are those prescribed by the Secretary. National average payment factors and maximum rates of reimbursement for the School Breakfast Program shall be prescribed annually by the Secretary in the

(c) The total reimbursement for breakfasts served to eligible children in schools not in severe need, and schools in severe need during the school year shall not exceed the sum of the products obtained by multiplying the total numbers of such free, reduced price and paid breakfasts, respectively, by the applicable rate of reimbursement for each type of breakfast as prescribed for the school year.

(d) The State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall determine whether a school is in severe need based on the following eligibility criteria:

(1) The school is participating in or desiring to initiate a breakfast program; and

(2) At least 40 percent of the lunches served to students at the school in the second preceding school year were served free or at a reduced price. Schools that did not serve lunches in the second preceding year and that would like to receive reimbursement at the severe need rate may apply to their administering State agency. The administering State agency shall approve or deny such requests in accordance with guidance, issued by the Secretary, that determines that the second preceding school year requirement would otherwise have been met.
