
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 220 - SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM
###### § 220.13 Special responsibilities of State agencies.
####### Records and reports.

(b)(1) Each State agency shall maintain Program records as necessary to support the reimbursement payments made to School Food Authorities under § 220.9 and the reports submitted to FNS under § 220.13(b)(2). The records may be kept in their original form or on microfilm, and shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of submission of the final Financial Status Report for the fiscal year, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.

(2) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a final Report of School Program Operations (FNS-10) for each month which shall be limited to claims submitted in accordance with § 220.11(b) and which shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 90 days following the last day of the month covered by the report. States shall not receive Program funds for any month for which the final report is not submitted within this time limit unless FNS grants an exception. Upward adjustments to a State agency's report shall not be made after 90 days from the month covered by the report unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments shall always be made, without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments are necessary. Adjustments shall be reported to FNS in accordance with procedures established by FNS. Each State agency shall also submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of Program funds. Such reports shall be postmarked and/or submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter. Obligations shall be reported only for the fiscal year in which they occur. A final Financial Status Report for each fiscal year shall be postmarked and/or submitted to FNS within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year. FNS shall not be responsible for reimbursing unpaid Program obligations reported later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year in which they were incurred.

(3) For each of school years 2005-2006 through 2014-2015, each State agency shall monitor school food authority compliance with the food safety inspection requirement in § 220.7(a)(2) and submit an annual report to FNS documenting school compliance based on data supplied by the school food authorities. The report must be filed by November 15 following each of school years 2005-2006 through 2014-2015, beginning November 15, 2006. The State agency shall keep the records supplied by the school food authorities showing the number of food safety inspections obtained by schools for the current and three most recent school years.

(c) Each State agency shall promptly investigate complaints received or irregularities noted in connection with the operation of either program, and shall take appropriate action to correct any irregularities. State Agencies shall maintain on file evidence of such investigations and actions. FNS or OI shall make investigations at the request of the State Agency or where FNS or OI determines investigations are appropriate.

(d) The State agency shall release to FNS any Federal funds made available to it under the Act which are unobligated at the end of each fiscal year. Any such funds shall remain available to FNS for the purposes of the programs authorized by the Act until expended. Release of funds by the State Agency shall be made as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than 30 days following demand by FNSRO and shall be reflected by related adjustment in the State Agency's Letter of Credit.

(e) State agencies shall provide School Food Authorities with monthly information on foods available in plentiful supply, based on information provided by the Department.

(f) Each State agency shall provide program assistance as follows:

(1) Each State agency or FNSRO where applicable shall provide consultative, technical, and managerial personnel to administer programs, monitor performance, and measure progress toward achieving program goals.
