
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 220 - SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM
###### ยง 220.13 Special responsibilities of State agencies.
####### Administrative Review Manual,

(g) State agencies shall adequately safeguard all assets and monitor resource management as required under ยง 210.18 of this chapter, and in conformance with the procedures specified in the FNSto assure that assets are used solely for authorized purposes.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) Each State agency, or FNS where applicable, shall establish a financial management system under which School Food Authorities shall account for all revenues and expenditures of their nonprofit school food service. The system shall prescribe the allowability of nonprofit school food service expenditures in accordance with this part and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and E, as applicable, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable. The system shall permit determination of school food service net cash resources, and shall include any criteria for approval of net cash resources in excess of three months average expenditures. In addition, School Food Authorities shall be required to account separately for other food services which are operated by the School Food Authority.

(j) During audits, administrative reviews, or by other means, State agencies, or FNSROs where applicable, shall be responsible for monitoring the net cash resources of the nonprofit school food service of each School Food Authority participating in the Program. In the event that such resources exceed three months average expenditures for the School Food Authority's nonprofit school food service, or such amount as may be approved by the State agency or FNSRO where applicable, the State agency or FNSRO where applicable, may require the School Food Authority to reduce children's prices, improve food quality or take other actions designed to improve the nonprofit school food service. In the absence of any such action, adjustments in the rates of reimbursement under the Program shall be made.

(k) State agencies shall require compliance by School Food Authorities with applicable provisions of this part.
