
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 220 - SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM
###### ยง 220.15 Management evaluations and audits.

(a) Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State and institution levels shall be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.

(b) Each State agency shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations (including visits to schools) of all operations of the State agency under the programs covered by this part and shall provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits (including visits to schools) of all operations of the State agency under such programs. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records of the receipt and expenditure of funds under such programs, upon a reasonable request by FNS or OIG. OIG shall also have the right to make audits of the records and operations of any school.

(c) In conducting management evaluations, reviews, or audits in a fiscal year, the State agency, FNS, or OIG may disregard an overpayment if the overpayment does not exceed $600. A State agency may establish, through State law, regulation or procedure, an alternate disregard threshold that does not exceed $600. This disregard may be made once per each management evaluation, review, or audit per Program within a fiscal year. However, no overpayment is to be disregarded where there is substantial evidence of violations of criminal law or civil fraud statutes.
