
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 220 - SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM
###### Appendix C to Part 220 - Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program

1. The Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program is a voluntary technical assistance program administered by the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) in conjunction with the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), and Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and National Marine Fisheries Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce (USDC) for the Child Nutrition Programs. This program essentially involves the review of a manufacturer's recipe or product formulation to determine the contribution a serving of a commercially prepared product makes toward meal pattern requirements and a review of the CN label statement to ensure its accuracy. CN labeled products must be produced in accordance with all requirements set forth in this rule.

2. Products eligible for CN labels are as follows:

(a) Commercially prepared food products that contribute significantly to the meat/meat alternate component of meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10 or 210.10a, whichever is applicable, 225.21, and 226.20 and are served in the main dish.

(b) Juice drinks and juice drink products that contain a minimum of 50 percent full-strength juice by volume.

3. For the purpose of this appendix the following definitions apply:

(a) "CN label" is a food product label that contains a CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) below.

(b) The "CN logo" (as shown below) is a distinct border which is used around the edges of a "CN label statement" as defined in paragraph 3(c).

(c) The "CN label statement" includes the following:

(1) The product identification number (assigned by FNS),

(2) The statement of the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10 or 210.10a, whichever is applicable, 220.8, 225.21, and 226.20. The statement shall identify the contribution of a specific portion of a meat/meat alternate product toward the meat/meat alternate, bread/bread alternate, and/or vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements. For juice drinks and juice drink products the statement shall identify their contribution toward the vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements,

(3) Statement specifying that the use of the CN logo and CN statement was authorized by FNS, and

(4) The approval date.

For example:
