
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### Related to research, extension, and education.,et seq.

(1)(i) Direct, coordinate and provide national leadership and support for research, extension and teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences to meet major needs and challenges in development of new food and fiber; food and agriculture viability and competitiveness in the global economy; enhancing economic opportunities and quality of life for rural America; food and agricultural system productivity and development of new crops and new uses; the environment and natural resources; or the promotion of human health and welfare pursuant to the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3101).

(ii) Provide national leadership and support for research, extension, and teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences to carry out sustainable agriculture research and education; a National Plant Genetic Resources Program; a national agricultural weather information system; and any other provisions pursuant to title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-624, 104 Stat. 3703).

(iii) Exercise the authorities of the Secretary in administering the Agriculture Advanced Research and Development Authority, including awarding grants and entering into contracts, cooperative agreements, and other transactions (7 U.S.C. 3319k).

(iv) Carry out research, technology development, technology transfer, and demonstration projects related to the economic feasibility of the manufacture and commercialization of natural rubber from plants containing hydrocarbons and other critical agricultural materials from native agricultural crops having strategic and industrial importance (7 U.S.C. 178-178n).

(v) Conduct research on the control of undesirable species of honey bees in cooperation with specific foreign governments (7 U.S.C. 284).

(vi) Administer the appropriation for the endowment and maintenance of colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanical arts (7 U.S.C. 321-326a).

(vii) Administer teaching funds authorized by section 22 of the Bankhead Jones Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 329).

(viii) Administer a Cooperative Agricultural Extension Program in accordance with the Smith-Lever Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 341-349).

(ix) Cooperate with the States for the purpose of encouraging and assisting them in carrying out research related to the problems of agriculture in its broadest aspects under the Hatch Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 361a-361i).
