
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### et seq.

(x) Evaluate, assess, and report to congressional agriculture committees on the merits of proposals for agricultural research facilities in the States, and ensure that each research activity conducted by an Agricultural Research Service facility serves a national or multistate need (7 U.S.C. 390).

(xi) Conduct research concerning domestic animals and poultry, their protection and use, the causes of contagious, infectious, and communicable diseases, and the means for the prevention and cure of the same (7 U.S.C. 391).

(xii) Conduct research related to the dairy industry and to the dissemination of information for the promotion of the dairy industry (7 U.S.C. 402).

(xiii) Conduct research and demonstrations at Mandan, ND, related to dairy livestock breeding, growing, and feeding, and other problems pertaining to the establishment of the dairy and livestock industries (7 U.S.C. 421-422).

(xiv) Conduct research on new uses for cotton and on cotton ginning and processing (7 U.S.C. 423-424).

(xv) Administer and conduct research into the basic problems of agriculture in its broadest aspects, including, but not limited to, production, marketing (other than statistical and economic research but including research related to family use of resources), distribution, processing, and utilization of plant and animal commodities; problems of human nutrition; development of markets for agricultural commodities; discovery, introduction, and breeding of new crops, plants, and animals, both foreign and native; conservation development; and development of efficient use of farm buildings, homes, and farm machinery except as otherwise delegated in ยง 2.22(a)(1)(ii) and ยง 2.79(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 427, 1621-1627, 1629, 2201, and 2204).

(xvi) Conduct research on varietal improvement of wheat and feed grains to enhance their conservation and environmental qualities (7 U.S.C. 428b).

(xvii) Administer a program to make competitive grants to assist in the construction, alteration, acquisition, modernization, renovation, or remodeling of agricultural research facilities (7 U.S.C. 390b).

(xviii) Enter into agreements with and receive funds from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of conducting cooperative research projects (7 U.S.C. 3318a).

(xix) Carry out a program (IR-4 Program) for the collection of residue and efficacy data in support of registration or reregistration of pesticides for minor agricultural use and for use on specialty crops, and to determine tolerances for minor use chemical residues in or on agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 3157(e)).

(xx) Administer the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative for competitive grants for fundamental and applied research, extension, and education to address food and agricultural sciences; administer a program of making special grants for research, extension, or education activities (7 U.S.C. 3157(b), (c)).

(xxi)-(xxii) [Reserved]

(xxiii) Conduct research related to soil and water conservation, engineering operations, and methods of cultivation to provide for the control and prevention of soil erosion (7 U.S.C. 1010 and 16 U.S.C. 590a).

(xxiv) Maintain four regional research laboratories and conduct research at such laboratories to develop new scientific, chemical, and technical uses and new and extended markets and outlets for farm commodities and products and the byproducts thereof (7 U.S.C. 1292).

(xxv) Conduct a Special Cotton Research Program designed to reduce the cost of producing upland cotton in the United States (7 U.S.C. 1444a(c)).

(xxvi) [Reserved]

(xxvii) Conduct research to develop and determine methods for the humane slaughter of livestock (7 U.S.C. 1904).

(xxviii)-(xxix) [Reserved]

(xxx) Conduct education and extension programs related to nutrition education (7 U.S.C. 2027(a)).
