
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### et seq.

(xxxi) Prepare an annual report to Congress on disbursements of funds for agricultural research and extension at 1890 and 1862 Institutions for programs under the following authorities: 7 U.S.C. 3221; 7 U.S.C. 3222; 7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c); and 7 U.S.C. 361a(7 U.S.C. 2207d).

(xxxii) Develop and maintain national and international library and information systems and networks and facilitate cooperation and coordination of the agricultural libraries of colleges, universities, USDA, and their closely allied information gathering and dissemination units in conjunction with private industry and other research libraries (7 U.S.C. 2201, 2204, 3125a, and 3126).

(xxxiii) Accept gifts and order disbursements from the Treasury for carrying out of National Agricultural Library (NAL) functions (7 U.S.C. 2264-2265).

(xxxiv) Propagate bee-breeding stock and release bee germplasm to the public (7 U.S.C. 283).

(xxxv) Administer, in cooperation with land-grant colleges and universities where applicable, a rural development research and extension program, a small farm research and extension program, and a rural health and safety education program under the Rural Development Act of 1972, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2661-2667).

(xxxvi) Administer a cooperative extension program under the Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976 (7 U.S.C. 3004).

(xxxvii) Coordinate the development and carrying out by Department agencies of all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research conducted or funded by the Department involving biotechnology, including the development and implementation of guidelines for oversight of research activities, acting as liaison on all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research in biotechnology between agencies within the Department and between the Department and other governmental, educational, or private organizations and carrying out any other activities authorized by (7 U.S.C. 3121).

(xxxviii) [Reserved]

(xxxix) Establish and oversee the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board (7 U.S.C. 3123).

(xl) Provide and distribute information and data about Federal, State, local, and other Rural Development Assistance Programs and services available to individuals and organizations. To the extent possible, NAL shall use telecommunications technology to disseminate such information to rural areas (7 U.S.C. 3125b).

(xli) Assemble and collect food and nutrition educational material, including the results of nutrition research, training methods, procedures, and other materials related to the purposes of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended; maintain such information; and provide for the dissemination of such information and materials on a regular basis to State educational agencies and other interested parties (7 U.S.C. 3126).

(xlii) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Affairs to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.

(xliv) Promote and strengthen higher education in the food and agricultural sciences; administer grants to colleges and universities; maintain a national food and agricultural education information system; conduct programs regarding the evaluation of teaching programs and continuing education; administer the National Food and Agricultural Sciences Teaching, Extension, and Research Awards Program to recognize and promote excellence in teaching, extension, and research in the food and agricultural sciences; administer programs relating to secondary education and 2-year postsecondary education, including grants to public secondary schools, institutions of higher education that award an associate's degree, other institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations; and report to Congress on the distribution of funds to carry out such teaching programs (7 U.S.C. 3152).

(xlv) Administer a next generation agriculture technology challenge competition to incentivize mobile technology that removes marketplace entry barriers for beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 3158).

(xlvi) Administer the National Agricultural Science Award for research or advanced studies in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3153).

(xlvii) [Reserved]

(xlviii) Administer a National Food and Human Nutrition Research and Extension Program (7 U.S.C. 3171-3173, 3175).

(xlix) Administer and direct an Animal Health and Disease Research Program under the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3191-3201).

(l) Support continuing agricultural and forestry extension and research at 1890 land-grant institutions, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3221, 3222, 3222d).

(li) Administer grants to 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University, through Federal-grant funds to help finance research facilities and equipment including agricultural libraries (7 U.S.C. 3223).

(lii) Establish and administer competitive grants to Hispanic-serving Institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of Hispanic-serving Institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3241).

(liii) Provide policy direction and coordinate the Department's work with national and international institutions and other persons throughout the world in the performance of agricultural research, extension, teaching, and development activities; administer a program of competitive grants for collaborative projects involving Federal scientists or scientists from colleges and universities working with scientists at international agricultural research centers in other nations focusing either on new technologies and programs for increasing the production of food and fiber or training scientists and a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities to strengthen United States economic competitiveness and to promote international market development; establish a program in coordination with the Foreign Agricultural Service to place interns from United States colleges and universities at Foreign Agricultural Service field offices overseas; and provide a biennial report to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on efforts of the Federal Government to coordinate international agricultural research within the Federal Government, and to more effectively link the activities of domestic and international agricultural researchers, particularly researchers of the Agricultural Research Service (7 U.S.C. 3291, 3292b).

(liv) Provide for an agricultural research and development program with the United States/Mexico Foundation for Science (7 U.S.C. 3292a).

(lv) Administer grants to 1890 Institutions, including Tuskegee University, for purposes of awarding scholarships to individuals pursuing careers in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3222a).

(lvi) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agriculture sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318).

(lvii) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements with State cooperative institutions or other colleges and universities for the acquisition of goods or services in support of research, extension, or teaching activities in the food and agricultural sciences, including the furtherance of library and related information programs (7 U.S.C. 3319a).

(lviii) Conduct research and development and implement a program for the development of supplemental and alternative crops (7 U.S.C. 3319d).

(lix) Administer an Aquaculture Assistance Program, involving centers, by making grants to eligible institutions for research and extension to facilitate or expand production and marketing of aquacultural food species and products; making grants to States to formulate Aquaculture development plans for the production and marketing of aquacultural species and products; and conducting a program of research, extension and demonstration at aquacultural demonstration centers (7 U.S.C. 3321-22).

(lx) Administer a Cooperative Rangeland Research Program (7 U.S.C. 3331-3336).

(lxi) Conduct a program of basic research on cancer in animals and birds (7 U.S.C. 3902).

(lxii) Design and implement educational programs and distribute materials in cooperation with the cooperative extension services of the States emphasizing the importance of productive farmland, and designate a farmland information center, pursuant to section 1544 of the Farmland Protection Policy Act (7 U.S.C. 4205).

(lxiii) Make competitive grants to land-grant colleges and universities, including 1994 Institutions, to provide identifiable support specifically targeted for Tribal students (7 U.S.C. 3222e).

(lxiv) Administer programs and conduct projects for research, extension, and education on sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5811-5813).

(lxv) Conduct research and cooperative extension programs to optimize crop and livestock production potential, integrated resource management, and integrated crop management (7 U.S.C. 5821).

(lxvi) Develop and make available handbooks, technical guides, and other educational materials emphasizing sustainable agriculture production systems and practices; carry out activities related to a national training program for sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5831, 5832).

(lxvii) Administer competitive grants for the acquisition of special purpose scientific research equipment for use in the food and agricultural sciences programs of eligible institutions (7 U.S.C. 3310a).

(lxviii) Administer a national research program on genetic resources to provide for the collection, preservation, and dissemination of genetic material important to American food and agriculture production (7 U.S.C. 5841-5844).

(lxix) Conduct remote-sensing and other weather-related research (7 U.S.C. 5852).

(lxx) Establish an Agricultural Weather Office and administer a national agricultural weather information system, including a competitive grants program for research in atmospheric sciences and climatology (7 U.S.C. 5852-5853).

(lxxi) Administer a research and extension grant program to States to administer programs for State agricultural weather information systems (7 U.S.C. 5854).

(lxxii) Establish a National Plant Diagnostic Network to monitor and surveil through diagnostics threats to plant health from diseases or pests of concern in the United States, and establish cooperative agreements with land-grant colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 8914(c)).

(lxxiii) Establish a National Plant Disease Recovery System to engage in strategic long-range planning to recover from high-consequence plant transboundary diseases (7 U.S.C. 8914(d)).

(lxxiv)-(lxxvi) [Reserved]

(lxxvii) Administer research programs and grants for risk assessment research to address concerns about the environmental effects of biotechnology (7 U.S.C. 5921).

(lxxviii) In consultation with the Secretary of Energy, administer competitive grants to provide education about carbon utilization and biogas (7 U.S.C. 8115).

(lxxix) Conduct a research initiative known as the Agricultural Genome Initiative, and make grants or enter into cooperative agreements on a competitive basis to carry out the Initiative (7 U.S.C. 5924).

(lxxx) Administer a competitive high priority research and extension grants program in specified subject areas (7 U.S.C. 5925), including pollinator activities (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)) not otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs in ยง 2.22(a)(2)(xli); prepare an annual report to Congress regarding pollinator issues (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)(5)).

(lxxxi) [Reserved]

(lxxxii) Administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities regarding organically grown and processed agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 5925b).

(lxxxiii) In consultation with the Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production Advisory Committee, administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities for the purposes of facilitating the development of urban, indoor, and other emerging agricultural production, harvesting, transportation, aggregation, packaging, distribution, and markets (7 U.S.C. 5925g).

(lxxxiv) Formulate and carry out the Veterinary Medicine Loan Repayment Act program authorized by the National Veterinary Medical Service Act (7 U.S.C. 3151a).

(lxxxv)-(xc) [Reserved]

(xci) Administer education programs on Indian reservations and tribal jurisdictions (7 U.S.C. 5930).

(xcii) [Reserved]

(xciii) Administer a demonstration grants program for support of an assistive technology program for farmers with disabilities (7 U.S.C. 5933).

(xciv)-(xcvi) [Reserved]

(xcvii) Administer the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982 for USDA (15 U.S.C. 638(e)-(k)).

(xcviii) Coordinate Departmental policies under the Toxic Substance Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601-2629).

(xcix) Provide educational and technical assistance in implementing and administering the Conservation Reserve Program authorized in sections 1231-1244 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1509 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3844)).

(c) Enter into cooperative research and development agreements with industry, universities, and others; institute a cash award program to reward scientific, engineering, and technical personnel; award royalties to inventors; and retain and use royalty income (15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c).

(ci) Coordinate USDA activities delegated under 15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c.

(cii) Conduct educational and demonstrational work in Cooperative Farm Forestry Programs (16 U.S.C. 568).

(ciii) Administer a cooperative forestry program in accordance with the McIntire-Stennis Cooperative Forestry Act, and administer a competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grant program (16 U.S.C. 582a-582-8).

(civ) Establish and administer the Forestry Student Grant Program to provide competitive grants to assist the expansion of the professional education of forestry, natural resources, and environmental scientists (16 U.S.C. 1649).

(cv) Provide for an expanded and comprehensive extension program for forest and rangeland renewable resources (16 U.S.C. 1671-1676).

(cvi) Provide technical, financial, and educational assistance to State foresters and State extension directors on rural forestry assistance (16 U.S.C. 2102).

(cvii) Provide educational assistance to State foresters under the Forest Stewardship Program (16 U.S.C. 2103a).

(cviii) Implement and conduct an educational program to assist the development of Urban and Community Forestry Programs (16 U.S.C. 2105).

(cix) Provide staff support to the Secretary of Agriculture in his or her role as permanent Chair for the Joint Subcommittee on Aquaculture established by the National Aquaculture Act of 1980 and coordinate aquacultural activities within the Department (16 U.S.C. 2805).

(cx) Perform research, development, and extension activities in aquaculture (16 U.S.C. 2804 and 2806).

(cxi) Administer an experienced services program to obtain technical, professional, and administrative services to support the research, education, and economics mission area of the Department (16 U.S.C. 3851).

(cxii) Copy and deliver on demand selected articles and other materials from the Department's collections by photographic reproduction or other means within the permissions, constraints, and limitations of sections 106, 107, and 108 of the Copyright Act of October 19, 1976, (17 U.S.C. 106, 107, and 108).

(cxiii) Authorize the use of the 4-H Club name and emblem (18 U.S.C. 707).
