
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.5 Payments to State agencies and use of Program funds.
######## State administrative funds Letter of Credit.

(b)(1) At the beginning of each fiscal year, FNS shall make available to each participating State agency by Letter of Credit an initial allocation of State administrative funds for use in that fiscal year. This allocation shall not exceed one-third of the administrative funds provided to the State in the preceding fiscal year. For State agencies which did not receive any Program funds during the preceding fiscal year, the amount to be made available shall be determined by FNS.

(2) Additional State administrative funds shall be made available upon the receipt and approval by FNS of the State's Program management and administration plan. The amount of such funds, plus the initial allocation, shall not exceed 80 percent of the State administrative funds determined by the formula set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and based on the estimates set forth in the approved Program management and administration plan.

(3) Any remaining State administrative funds shall be paid to each State agency as soon as practicable after the conduct of the funding assessment described in paragraph (c) of this section. However, regardless of whether such assessment is made, the remaining administrative funds shall be paid no later than September 1. The remaining administrative payment shall be in an amount equal to that determined to be needed during the funding evaluation or, if such evaluation is not conducted, the amount owed the State in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, less the amounts paid under paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.
