
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.5 Payments to State agencies and use of Program funds.
######## Letter of Credit for Program payments.

(d)(1) Not later than April 15 of each fiscal year, FNS shall make available to each participating State in a Letter of Credit an amount equal to 65 percent of the preceding fiscal year's Program payments for operating costs plus 65 percent of the preceding fiscal year's Program payments for administrative costs in the State. This amount may be adjusted to reflect changes in reimbursement rates made pursuant to ยง 225.9(d)(8). However, the State shall not withdraw funds from this Letter of Credit until its Program management and administration plan is approved by FNS.

(2) Based on the State agency's approved management and administration plan, FNS shall, if necessary, adjust the State's Letter of Credit to ensure that 65 percent of estimated current year Program operating and administrative funding needs is available. Such adjustment shall be made no later than May 15, or within 90 days of FNS receipt of the State agency's management and administration plan, whichever date is later.

(3) Subsequent to the adjustment provided for in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, FNS will, if necessary, make one additional adjustment to ensure that the State agency's Letter of Credit contains at least 65 percent of the Program operating and administrative funds needed during the current fiscal year. Such adjustment may be based on the administrative funding assessment provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, if one is conducted, or on any additional information which demonstrates that the funds available in the Letter of Credit do not equal at least 65 percent of current year Program needs. In no case will such adjustments be made later than September 1. Funds made available in the Letter of Credit shall be used by the State agency to make Program payments to sponsors.

(4) The Letter of Credit shall include sufficient funds to enable the State agency to make advance payments to sponsors serving areas in which schools operate under a continuous school calendar. These funds shall be made available no later than the first day of the month prior to the month during which the food service will be conducted.

(5) FNS shall make available any remaining Program funds due within 45 days of the receipt of valid claims for reimbursement from sponsors by the State agency. However, no payment shall be made for claims submitted later than 60 days after the month covered by the claim unless an exception is granted by FNS.

(6) Each State agency shall release to FNS any Program funds which it determines are unobligated as of September 30 of each fiscal year. Release of funds by the State agency shall be made as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 30 calendar days following demand by FNS, and shall be accomplished by an adjustment in the State agency's Letter of Credit.
