
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.6 State agency responsibilities.
######## General responsibilities.

(a)(1) The State agency shall provide sufficient qualified consultative, technical, and managerial personnel to administer the Program, monitor performance, and measure progress in achieving Program goals. The State agency shall assign Program responsibilities to personnel to ensure that all applicable requirements under this part are met.

(2) By February 1 of each fiscal year, each State agency shall announce the purpose, eligibility criteria, and availability of the Program throughout the State, through appropriate means of communication. As part of this effort, each State agency shall identify rural areas, Indian tribal territories, and areas with a concentration of migrant farm workers which qualify for the Program and actively seek eligible applicant sponsors to serve such areas. State agencies shall identify priority outreach areas in accordance with FNS guidance and target outreach efforts in these areas. State agencies must have established criteria for approving closed enrolled sites to ensure that operation of a site as closed enrolled does not limit Program access in the area that the site is located.

(3) Each State agency shall require applicant sponsors submitting Program application site information sheets, Program agreements, or a request for advance payments, and sponsors submitting claims for reimbursement to certify that the information submitted on these forms is true and correct and that the sponsor is aware that deliberate misrepresentation or withholding of information may result in prosecution under applicable State and Federal statutes.

(4) In addition to the warnings specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, State agencies may include the following information on applications and pre-application materials distributed to prospective sponsors:
