
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### et seq.

(cxiv) Maintain a National Arboretum for the purposes of research and education concerning tree and plant life, and order disbursements from the Treasury, in accordance with the Act of March 4, 1927 (20 U.S.C. 191).

(cxv) Conduct research on foot-and-mouth disease and other animal diseases (21 U.S.C. 113a).

(cxvi) [Reserved]

(cxvii) Obtain and furnish Federal excess property to eligible recipients for use in the conduct of research and extension programs (40 U.S.C. 525(c)).

(cxviii) Conduct research demonstration and promotion activities related to farm dwellings and other buildings for the purposes of reducing costs and adapting and developing fixtures and appurtenances for more efficient and economical farm use (42 U.S.C. 1476(b)).

(cxix)-(cxx) [Reserved]

(cxxi) Administer a Cooperative Agricultural Extension Program related to agriculture, uses of solar energy with respect to agriculture, home economics, and rural energy in the District of Columbia (D.C. Code 38-1202.09).

(cxxii) [Reserved]

(cxxiii) Exercise the responsibilities of the Secretary under regulations dealing with Equal Employment Opportunity in the Cooperative Extension Service (part 18 of this title).

(cxxiv) Represent the Department on the Federal Interagency Committee on Education.

(cxxv) Assure the acquisition, preservation, and accessibility of all information concerning food and agriculture by providing leadership to and coordination of the acquisition programs and related activities of the library and information systems, with the agencies of USDA, other Federal departments and agencies, State agricultural experiment stations, colleges and universities, and other research institutions and organizations.
