
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### § 225.6 State agency responsibilities.
######## Approval of sponsor applications.

(b)(1) Each State agency must inform all of the previous year's sponsors which meet current eligibility requirements and all other potential sponsors of the deadline date for submitting a written application for participation in the Program. The State agency must require that all applicant sponsors submit written applications for Program participation to the State agency by June 15. However, the State agency may establish an earlier deadline for the Program application submission. Sponsors applying for participation in the Program due to an unanticipated school closure shall be exempt from the application submission deadline.

(2) Each State agency shall inform potential sponsors of the procedure for applying for advance operating and administrative costs payments as provided for in § 225.9(c). Where applicable, each State agency shall inform sponsors of the procedure for applying for start-up payments provided for in § 225.9(a).

(3) Within 30 days of receiving a complete and correct application, the State agency shall notify the applicant of its approval or disapproval. If an incomplete application is received, the State agency shall so notify the applicant within 15 days and shall provide technical assistance for the purpose of completing the application. Any disapproved applicant shall be notified of its right to appeal under § 225.13.

(4) The State agency shall determine the eligibility of sponsors applying for participation in the Program in accordance with the applicant sponsor eligibility criteria outlined in § 225.14. However, State agencies may approve the application of an otherwise eligible applicant sponsor which does not provide a year-round service to the community which it proposes to serve under the Program only if it meets one or more of the following criteria: It is a residential camp; it proposes to provide a food service for the children of migrant workers; a failure to do so would deny the Program to an area in which poor economic conditions exist; a significant number of needy children will not otherwise have reasonable access to the Program; or it proposes to serve an area affected by an unanticipated school closure. In addition, the State agency may approve a sponsor for participation during an unanticipated school closure without a prior application if the sponsor participated in the program at any time during the current year or in either of the prior two calendar years.

(5) The State agency must use the following priority system in approving applicants to operate sites that propose to serve the same area or the same enrolled children:

(i) Public or nonprofit private school food authorities;

(ii) Public agencies and private nonprofit organizations that have demonstrated successful program performance in a prior year;

(iii) New public agencies; and

(iv) New private nonprofit organizations.

(v) If two or more sponsors that qualify under paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section apply to serve the same area, the State agency must determine on a case-by-case basis which sponsor or sponsors it will select to serve the needy children in the area. The State agency should consider the resources and capabilities of each applicant.

(6) The State agency must not approve any sponsor to operate more than 200 sites or to serve more than an average of 50,000 children per day. However, the State agency may approve exceptions if the applicant can demonstrate that it has the capability of managing a program larger than these limits.

(7) The State agency shall review each applicant's administrative budget as a part of the application approval process in order to assess the applicant's ability to operate in compliance with these regulations within its projected reimbursement. In approving the applicant's administrative budget, the State agency shall take into consideration the number of sites and children to be served, as well as any other relevant factors. A sponsor's administrative budget shall be subject to review for adjustments by the State agency if the sponsor's level of site participation or the number of meals served to children changes significantly. State agencies may exempt school food authorities applying to operate the SFSP from submitting a separate budget to the State agency, if the school food authority submits an annual budget for the National School Lunch Program and the submitted budget includes the operation of SFSP.

(8) Applicants which qualify as camps shall be approved for reimbursement only for meals served free to enrolled children who meet the Program's eligibility standards.

(9) The State agency shall not approve the application of any applicant sponsor identifiable through its organization or principals as a sponsor which has been determined to be seriously deficient as described in § 225.11(c). However, the State agency may approve the application of a sponsor which has been disapproved or terminated in prior years in accordance with this paragraph if the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State agency that it has taken appropriate corrective actions to prevent recurrence of the deficiencies.

(10) If the sponsor's application to participate is denied, the official making the determination of denial must notify the applicant sponsor in writing stating all of the grounds on which the State agency based the denial. Pending the outcome of a review of a denial, the State agency shall proceed to approve other applicants in accordance with its responsibilities under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, without regard to the application under review.

(11) The State agency shall not approve the application of any applicant sponsor which submits fraudulent information or documentation when applying for Program participation or which knowingly withholds information that may lead to the disapproval of its application. Complete information regarding such disapproval of an applicant shall be submitted by the State agency through FNSRO to OIG.
