
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### et seq.

(cxxvi) Formulate, write, or prescribe bibliographic and technically related standards for the library and information services of USDA (7 U.S.C. 3125a).

(cxxvii) Determine by survey or other appropriate means, the information needs of the Department's scientific, professional, technical, and administrative staffs, its constituencies, and the general public in the areas of food, agriculture, the environment, and other related areas.

(cxxviii) Represent the Department on all library and information science matters before Congressional Committees and appropriate commissions, and provide representation to the coordinating committees of the Federal and State governments concerned with library and information science activities.

(cxxix) Represent the Department in international organizational activities and on international technical committees concerned with agricultural science, education, and development activities, including library and information science activities.

(cxxx) Prepare and disseminate computer files, indexes and abstracts, bibliographies, reviews, and other analytical information tools.

(cxxxi) Arrange for the consolidated purchasing and dissemination of printed and automated indexes, abstracts, journals, and other widely used information resources and services.

(cxxxii) Provide assistance and support to professional organizations and others concerned with library and information science matters and issues.
