
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.6 State agency responsibilities.
######## Free meal policy statement,Nondiscrimination statement.

(f)-(1)(i) Each sponsor must submit a nondiscrimination statement of its policy for serving meals to children. The statement must consist of:

(A) An assurance that all children are served the same meals and that there is no discrimination in the course of the food service; and

(B) Except for camps, a statement that the meals served are free at all sites.

(ii) A school sponsor must submit the policy statement only once, with the initial application to participate as a sponsor. However, if there is a substantive change in the school's free and reduced-price policy, a revised policy statement must be provided at the State agency's request.

(iii) In addition to the information described in paragraph (i) of this section, the policy statement of all camps that charge separately for meals must also include:

(A) A statement that the eligibility standards conform to the Secretary's family size and income standards for reduced-price school meals;

(B) A description of the method to be used in accepting applications from families for Program meals that ensures that households are permitted to apply on behalf of children who are members of households receiving SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits using the categorical eligibility procedures described in ยง 225.15(f);

(C) A description of the method to be used by camps for collecting payments from children who pay the full price of the meal while preventing the overt identification of children receiving a free meal;

(D) An assurance that the camp will establish hearing procedures for families requesting to appeal a denial of an application for free meals. These procedures must meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section;

(E) An assurance that, if a family requests a hearing, the child will continue to receive free meals until a decision is rendered; and

(F) An assurance that there will be no overt identification of free meal recipients and no discrimination against any child on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability.
