
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.6 State agency responsibilities.
######## Experienced sites.

(2)The application submitted by sponsors must include a site information sheet for each site where a food service operation is proposed. The State agency may require sponsors of experienced sites to provide information described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. At a minimum, the site information sheet must demonstrate or describe the following:

(i) The estimated number of meals, types of meals to be served, and meal service times; and

(ii) For open sites and restricted open sites:

(A) Documentation supporting the eligibility of each site as serving an area in which poor economic conditions exist;

(B) When school data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years;

(C) When census data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency believes that an area's socioeconomic status has changed significantly since the last census; and

(D) Any site that a sponsor proposes to serve during an unanticipated school closure, which has participated in the Program at any time during the current year or in either of the prior 2 calendar years, is considered eligible without new documentation.

(iii) For closed enrolled sites:

(A) The projected number of children enrolled and the projected number of children eligible for free and reduced-price school meals for each of these sites; or documentation supporting the eligibility of each site as serving an area in which poor economic conditions exist;

(B) When school data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years;

(C) When census data are used, new documentation is required every 5 years, or earlier, if the State agency believes that an area's socioeconomic status has changed significantly since the last census.

(iv) For NYSP sites, certification from the sponsor that all of the children who will receive Program meals are enrolled participants in the NYSP.

(v) For camps, the number of children enrolled in each session who meet the Program's income standards. If such information is not available at the time of application, this information must be submitted as soon as possible thereafter, and in no case later than the filing of the camp's claim for reimbursement for each session.
