
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(cxxxiii) Pursuant to the authority delegated by the Administrator of General Services to the Secretary of Agriculture in 34 FR 6406, 36 FR 1293, 36 FR 18440, and 38 FR 23838, appoint uniformed armed guards and special policemen, make all needful rules and regulations, and annex to such rules and regulations such reasonable penalties (not to exceed those prescribed in 40 U.S.C. 318(c), as will ensure their enforcement, for the protection of persons, property, buildings, and grounds of the Arboretum, Washington, DC; the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center, Clay Center, NE; the Agricultural Research Center, Beltsville, MD; and the Animal Disease Center, Plum Island, NY, over which the United States has exclusive or concurrent criminal jurisdiction, in accordance with the limitations and requirements of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 471), the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (40 U.S.C. 318), and the policies, procedures, and controls prescribed by the General Services Administration. Any rules or regulations promulgated under this authority shall be approved by the Director, Office of Operations, and the General Counsel prior to issuance.

(cxxxiv) Represent the Department on the National Science and Technology Council.

(cxxxv) Administer the Department's Patent Program except as delegated to the General Counsel in ยง 2.31(a)(5).

(cxxxvi) Review cooperative research and development agreements entered into pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c, with authority to disapprove or require the modification of any such agreement.

(cxxxvii) Establish and administer a 1994 Institutions Endowment Fund and to enter into agreements necessary to do this (Section 533(b) and (c) of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).
