
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.6 State agency responsibilities.
######## Approval of sites.

(h)(1) When evaluating a proposed food service site, the State agency shall ensure that:

(i) If not a camp, the proposed site serves an area in which poor economic conditions exist, as defined by ยง 225.2;

(ii) The area which the site proposes to serve is not or will not be served in whole or in part by another site, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the State agency that each site will serve children not served by any other site in the same area for the same meal;

(iii) The site is approved to serve no more than the number of children for which its facilities are adequate and;

(iv) If it is a site proposed to operate during an unanticipated school closure, it is a non-school site.

(2) When approving the application of a site which will serve meals prepared by a food service management company, the State agency shall establish for each meal service an approved level for the maximum number of children's meals which may be served under the Program. These approved levels shall be established in accordance with the following provisions:

(i) The initial maximum approved level must be based upon the historical record of attendance at the site if such a record has been established in prior years and the State agency determines that it is accurate. The State agency must develop a procedure for establishing initial maximum approved levels for sites when no accurate record from prior years is available. The State agency may consider participation at other similar sites located in the area, documentation of programming taking place at the site, statistics on the number of children residing in the area, and other relevant information.

(ii) The maximum approved level shall be adjusted, if warranted, based upon information collected during site reviews. If attendance at the site on the day of the review is significantly below the site's approved level, the State agency should consider making a downward adjustment in the approved level with the objective of providing only one meal per child.

(iii) The sponsor may seek an upward adjustment in the approved level for its sites by requesting a site review or by providing the State agency with evidence that attendance exceeds the sites' approved levels. The sponsor may request an upward adjustment at any point prior to submitting the claim for the impacted reimbursement period.

(iv) Whenever the State agency establishes or adjusts approved levels of meal service for a site, it shall document the action in its files, and it shall provide the sponsor with immediate written confirmation of the approved level.

(v) Upon approval of its application or any adjustment to its maximum approved levels, the sponsor shall inform the food service management company with which it contracts of the approved level for each meal service at each site served by the food service management company. This notification of any adjustments in approved levels shall take place within the time frames set forth in the contract for adjusting meal orders. Whenever the sponsor notifies the food service management company of the approved levels or any adjustments to these levels for any of its sites, the sponsor shall clearly inform the food service management company that an approved level of meal service represents the maximum number of meals which may be served at a site and is not a standing order for a specific number of meals at that site. When the number of children attending is below the site's approved level, the sponsor shall adjust meal orders with the objective of serving only one meal per child as required under ยง 225.15(b)(3).
