
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### et seq.

(cxxxviii) Make grants in equal amounts to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to be used in the same manner as is prescribed for colleges under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321), and subject to the requirements of such Act (Section 534(a) of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).

(cxxxix) Make competitive Institutional Capacity Building Grants to assist 1994 Land-Grant Institutions with constructing, acquiring, and remodeling buildings, laboratories, and other capital facilities (including fixtures and equipment) necessary to conduct instructional activities more effectively in agriculture and sciences (Section 535 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).

(cxl) Make competitive grants to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to conduct agricultural research that addresses high priority concerns of tribal, national, or multistate significance (Section 536 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note).

(cxli) Implement and administer the Community Food Projects Program under section 25 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2034).

(cxlii) In consultation with the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, administer pilot projects to encourage the use of public-private partnerships committed to addressing food insecurity (7 U.S.C. 2036d).

(cxliii) Coordinate the Department of Agriculture summer intern program pursuant to section 922 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act (7 U.S.C. 2279c).

(cxliv) Develop and carry out a system to monitor and evaluate agricultural research and extension activities conducted or supported by the Department that will enable the Secretary to measure the impact and effectiveness of research, extension, and education programs according to priorities, goals, and mandates established by law. Conduct a comprehensive review of state-of-the-art information technology systems for use in developing the system (7 U.S.C. 3129).

(cxlv)-(cxlvi) [Reserved]

(cliii) Establish procedures that provide for scientific peer review of each agricultural research grant administered on a competitive basis, and for relevancy and merit review of each agricultural research, extension, or education grant administered on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 7613(a)).
