
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Agriculture
### PART 2 - DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE AND GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
#### Subpart C - Delegations of Authority to the Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries
##### ยง 2.21 Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.
###### et seq.

(cl) Provide technical assistance to farmers and ranchers under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (16 U.S.C. 3830).

(cli) Ensure that agricultural research conducted by the Agricultural Research Service, and agricultural research, extension, or education activities administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture on a competitive basis address a concern that is a priority and has national, multistate, or regional significance (7 U.S.C. 7611).

(clii) Solicit and consider input and recommendations from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education and, after consultation with appropriate subcabinet officials, establish priorities for agricultural research, extension, and education activities conducted or funded by the Department; promulgate regulations concerning implementation of a process for obtaining stakeholder input at 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institutions and Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; and ensure that federally supported and conducted agricultural research, extension, and education activities are accomplished in accord with identified management principles (7 U.S.C. 7612).

(cliii) Establish procedures that provide for scientific peer review of each agricultural research grant administered on a competitive basis, and for merit review of each agricultural extension or education grant administered, on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 7613(a)).

(cliv) Consider the results of the annual review performed by the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board regarding the relevance to priorities of the funding of all agricultural research, extension, or education activities conducted or funded by the Department and the adequacy of funding, when formulating each request for proposals, and evaluating proposals, involving an agricultural research, extension, or education activity funded, on a competitive basis, by the Department; and solicit and consider input from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education regarding the prior year's request for proposals for each activity funded on a competitive basis (7 U.S.C. 7613(c)).

(clv) Establish, in consultation with appropriate subcabinet officials, procedures to ensure scientific peer review of all research activities conducted by the Department (7 U.S.C. 7613(d)).

(clvi) Require a procedure to be established by each 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institution and Hispanic-serving agricultural college and university, for merit review of each agricultural research and extension activity funded and review of the activity in accordance with the procedure (7 U.S.C. 7613(e)).

(clvii)-(clix) [Reserved]

(clx) Coordinate the resources of the Department to develop, commercialize, and promote the use of biobased products, and enter into cooperative agreements with private entities to operate pilot plants and other large-scale preparation facilities under which the facilities and technical expertise of the Agricultural Research Service may be made available (7 U.S.C. 7624).

(clxi) [Reserved]

(clxii) Administer competitive grants for integrated, multifunctional agricultural research, education, and extension activities (7 U.S.C. 7626).

(clxiii) Administer a coordinated program of research, extension, and education to improve the competitiveness, viability, and sustainability of small and medium size dairy, livestock, and poultry operations (7 U.S.C. 7627).

(clxiv) Administer grants to consortia of land-grant colleges and universities to enhance the ability of the consortia to carry out multi-State research projects aimed at understanding and combating diseases of wheat, triticale, and barley caused by Fusarium graminearum and related fungi or Tilletia indica and related fungi (7 U.S.C. 7628).

(clxv) Operate and administer the Food Animal Residue Avoidance Database through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with appropriate colleges or universities (7 U.S.C. 7642).

(clxvi) Update on a periodic basis, nutrient composition data and report to Congress the method that will be used to update the data and the timing of the update (7 U.S.C. 7651).

(clxvii) Establish and maintain a Food Safety Research Information Office at the National Agricultural Library to provide to the research community and the general public information on publicly and privately funded food safety research initiatives (7 U.S.C. 7654(a)).

(clxviii) Develop a national program of safe food handling education for adults and young people to reduce the risk of food-borne illness (7 U.S.C. 7655).

(clxix) Conduct a performance evaluation to determine whether federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education programs result in public goods that have national or multistate significance, including through a contract with one or more entities to provide input and recommendations with respect to federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education programs (7 U.S.C. 7671).

(clxx) [Reserved]

(clxxi) Take a census of agriculture in 1998 and every fifth year thereafter pursuant to the Census of Agriculture Act of 1997, Public Law 105-113 (7 U.S.C. 2204g); ensure that the census of agriculture documents the number, location, and economic contributions of socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in agricultural production (7 U.S.C. 2279(h)).

(clxxii) Cooperate with other Federal agencies (including the National Science Foundation) in issuing joint requests for proposals, awarding grants, and administering grants under any competitive agricultural research, education, or extension grant program (7 U.S.C. 3319b).

(clxxiii) Administer a program of competitive grants, establish education teams, and establish an online clearinghouse of curricula and training materials and programs, all for training, education, outreach, and technical assistance initiatives for the benefit of beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 2279d).

(clxxiv) Administer agricultural research, education, and extension activities (including through competitive grants), using any authority available to the Secretary, to reduce the vulnerability of the United States food and agricultural system to chemical or biological attack, to continue partnerships with institutions of higher education and other institutions to help form stable, long-term programs to enhance the biosecurity of the United States, to make competitive grants to universities and qualified research institutions for research on counterbioterrorsims, and to counter or otherwise respond to chemical or biological attack (7 U.S.C. 3351).

(clxxv) Administer a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities for expansion and security upgrades to enhance the security of agriculture against bioterrorism threats (7 U.S.C. 3352).

(clxxvi) Administer programs for distance education grants and resident instruction grants to eligible institutions in insular areas that have demonstrable capacity to carry out teaching and extension programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3361-3363).

(clxxvii) [Reserved]

(clxxviii) Administer a program of cooperative research (including through competitive award of grants and cooperative agreements to colleges and universities) and extension projects on carbon cycling in soils and plants, the exchange of other greenhouse gases from agriculture, and the carbon sequestration benefits of conservation practices (7 U.S.C. 6711).

(clxxix) [Reserved]

(clxxx) Administer a program of grants to the Girl Scouts of the United States of America, the Boy Scouts of America, the National 4-H Council, and the National FFA Organization to establish pilot projects to expand the programs carried out by the organizations in rural areas and small towns (7 U.S.C. 7630).

(clxxxi) Oversee implementation of the termination of Federal schedule A civil service appointments of State agricultural extension employees at land-grant colleges and universities (section 7220 of Pub. L. 107-171).

(clxxxii) Administer a program of grants to the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute (section 10805 of Pub. L. 107-171).

(clxxxiii) Administer grants to assist the land-grant university in the District of Columbia to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-1).

(clxxxiv) Administer grants to assist the land-grant colleges and universities in insular areas to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research; and to support tropical and subtropical agricultural research, including pest and disease research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-2).

(clxxxv) Enter into agreements necessary to administer an Hispanic-Serving Agricultural Colleges and Universities Fund; enter into agreements necessary to administer a program of making annual payments to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer an institutional capacity-building grants program for Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer a competitive grants program to fund fundamental and applied research and extension at Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities and to award competitive grants to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities to provide for training in the food and agricultural sciences of Hispanic agricultural workers and Hispanic youth working in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3243).

(clxxxvi) Administer the New Era Rural Technology Program to make grants for technology development, applied research, and training to aid in the development of an agriculture-based renewable energy workforce (7 U.S.C. 3319e).

(clxxxvii) Administer a competitive grants program to assist NLGCA Institutions in maintaining and expanding capacity to conduct education, research, and outreach activities relating to agriculture, renewable resources, and other similar disciplines (7 U.S.C. 3319i).

(clxxxviii) [Reserved]

(clxxxix) Administer a competitive research and extension grants program to improve the farm management knowledge and skills of agricultural producers and establish and maintain a national, publicly available farm financial management database to support improved farm management (7 U.S.C. 5925f).

(cxc) Administer the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (7 U.S.C. 7632).

(cxci) Exchange, sell, or otherwise dispose of animals, animal products, plants, and plant products, and use the sale or other proceeds to acquire such items or to offset costs related to the maintenance, care, or feeding of such items (7 U.S.C. 2241a).

(cxcii) Establish and administer a pilot program at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center and National Agricultural Library to lease nonexcess property (7 U.S.C. 3125a note).

(cxciii) Lease land at the Grazinglands Research Laboratory at El Reno, Oklahoma, pursuant to section 7503 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246).

(cxciv) Administer a competitive research and education grants program relating to antibiotics and antibiotic-resistant bacteria (7 U.S.C. 3202).

(cxcv) Administer a competitive grants program to establish and maintain a Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (7 U.S.C. 5936).

(cxcvi) [Reserved]

(cxcvii) Administer a natural products research program (7 U.S.C. 5937).

(cxcviii) Administer a Sun Grants Program (7 U.S.C. 8114).

(cxcix) [Reserved]

(cc) Administer a competitive grant program to support the development and expansion of advanced training programs in agricultural biosecurity planning and response for food science professionals and veterinarians (7 U.S.C. 8913).

(cci) Administer the Biomass Research and Development Initiative (7 U.S.C. 8108(e)); consult and coordinate, as appropriate, with the Under Secretary for RD and other mission areas of the Department as deemed necessary in carrying the authorities delegated herein; serve as the designated point of contact referenced in 7 U.S.C. 8108 for the Department for purposes of administering the Biomass Research and Development Initiative.

(ccii) Administer a competitive grants program to encourage basic and applied research and the development of qualified agricultural countermeasures (7 U.S.C. 8921).

(cciii) Administer a competitive grants program to promote the development of teaching programs in agriculture, veterinary medicine, and disciplines closely allied to the food and agriculture system to increase the number of trained individuals with an expertise in agricultural biosecurity (7 U.S.C. 8922).

(cciv) Administer a program of providing grants to Alaska Native serving institutions and Native Hawaiian serving institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of those institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3156).

(ccv) Administer a competitive grant program for national food safety training, education, extension, outreach, and technical assistance (7 U.S.C. 7625).

(ccvi) Administer a food insecurity nutrition incentive program (7 U.S.C. 7517).

(ccvii) Administer a food and agriculture service learning grant program (7 U.S.C. 7633).

(ccviii) Administer a veterinary services grant program (7 U.S.C. 3151b).

(ccix) Enter into grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, or other legal instruments with former Department of Agriculture agricultural research facilities (7 U.S.C. 3315(b)).

(ccx) Administer a forestry and forestry products research and extension initiative (7 U.S.C. 7655b).

(ccxi) Submit to Congress an annual report describing agricultural research, extension, and education activities carried out by the Federal Government (7 U.S.C. 7614c(f)).

(ccxii) Enter into cooperative agreements with institutions of higher education regarding the dissemination of agricultural and food law research, legal tools, and information (7 U.S.C. 3125a-1).

(ccxiii) Consult with the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research regarding the identification of existing and proposed Federal intramural and extramural research and development programs relating to the purposes of the Foundation and the coordination of Foundation activities with those programs for the purpose of minimizing duplication of existing efforts and avoiding conflicts (7 U.S.C. 5939(d)(1)(B)).
