
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### § 225.7 Program monitoring and assistance.
######## Meal claim validation.

(6)As part of every sponsor review under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the State agency must validate the sponsor's meal claim utilizing a record review process.

(i) The State agency must develop a record review process. This process must include, at a minimum, reconciliation of delivery receipts, daily meal counts from sites, and the comparison of the sponsor's claim consolidation spreadsheet with the meals claimed for reimbursement by the sponsor for the period under review.

(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph (e)(6), the percent error includes both overclaims and underclaims. Claims against sponsors as a result of meal claim validation should be assessed after the conclusion of the meal claim validation process in accordance with § 225.12.

(iii) In determining the sample size for each step of this process, fractions must be rounded up (≥0.5) or down (<0.5) to the nearest whole number.

(iv) State agencies must at a minimum follow the process to conduct the meal claim validation as described in table 1.

(v) In determining the percentage of error, under paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section, fractions must be rounded up (≥0.5) or down (<0.5) to the nearest whole number. Percentage of error is calculated for each step as follows:
