
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.7 Program monitoring and assistance.
######## Meal preparation facility reviews.

(i)As part of the review of any vended sponsor that purchases unitized meals, with or without milk, to be served at a SFSP site, the State agency must review the meal production facility and meal production documentation of any food service management company from which the sponsor purchases meals for compliance with program requirements. If the sponsor does not purchase meals but does purchase management services within the restrictions specified in ยง 225.15, the State agency is not required to conduct a meal preparation facility review.

(1) Each State agency must establish an order of priority for visiting facilities at which food is prepared for the Program. The facility review must be conducted at least one time within the appropriate review cycle for each vended sponsor. If multiple vended sponsors use the same food service management company and are being reviewed in the same review cycle, a single facility review will fulfill the review requirements for those vended sponsors.

(2) The State agency must respond promptly to complaints concerning facilities. If the food service management company fails to correct violations noted by the State agency during a review, the State agency must notify the sponsor and the food service management company that reimbursement must not be paid for meals prepared by the food service management company after a date specified in the notification.

(3) Funds provided in ยง 225.5(f) may be used for conducting meal preparation facility reviews.
