
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.7 Program monitoring and assistance.
######## Other facility inspections and meal quality tests.

(l)In addition to those inspections required by paragraph (i) of this section, the State agency may also conduct, or arrange to have conducted: inspections of self-preparation and vended sponsors' food preparation facilities; inspections of food service sites; and meal quality tests. The procedures for carrying out these inspections and tests must be consistent with procedures used by local health authorities. For inspections of food service management companies' facilities not conducted by State agency personnel, copies of the results must be provided to the State agency. The company and the sponsor must also immediately receive a copy of the results of these inspections when corrective action is required. If a food service management company fails to correct violations noted by the State agency during a review, the State agency must notify the sponsor and the food service management company that reimbursement must not be paid for meals prepared by the food service management company after a date specified in the notification. Funds provided for in ยง 225.5(f) may be used for conducting these inspections and tests.
