
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.7 Program monitoring and assistance.
######## Financial management.

(m)Each State agency must establish a financial management system, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415, as applicable, and FNS guidance, to identify allowable Program costs and to establish standards for sponsor recordkeeping and reporting. The State agency must provide guidance on these financial management standards to each sponsor. Additionally, each State agency must establish a system for monitoring and reviewing sponsors' nonprofit food service to ensure that all Program reimbursement funds are used solely for the conduct of the food service operation. State agencies must review the net cash resources of the nonprofit food service of each sponsor participating in the Program and ensure that the net cash resources do not exceed one months' average expenditures for sponsors operating only during the summer months and three months' average expenditure for sponsors operating Child Nutrition Programs throughout the year. State agency approval must be required for net cash resources in excess of requirements set forth in this paragraph (m). Based on this monitoring, the State agency may provide technical assistance to the sponsor to improve meal service quality or take other action designed to improve the nonprofit meal service quality under the following conditions, including but not limited to:

(1) The sponsor's net cash resources exceed the limits included in this paragraph (m) for the sponsor's nonprofit food service or such other amount as may be approved in accordance with this paragraph;

(2) The ratio of administrative to operating costs (as defined in ยง 225.2) is high;

(3) There is significant use of alternative funding for food and/or other costs; or

(4) A significant portion of the food served is privately donated or purchased at a very low price.
