
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.8 Records and reports.

(a) Each State agency shall maintain complete and accurate current accounting records of its Program operations which will adequately identify funds authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, income, claims against sponsors and efforts to recover overpayments, and expenditures for administrative and operating costs. These records shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of the submission of the final Program Operations and Financial Status Report (FNS-777), except that, if audit findings have not been resolved, the affected records shall be retained beyond the three year period until such time as any issues raised by the audit findings have been resolved. The State agency shall also retain a complete record of each review or appeal conducted, as required under ยง 225.13, for a period of three years following the date of the final determination on the review or appeal. Records may be kept in their original form or on microfilm.

(b) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a final report on the Summer Food Service Program Operations (FNS-418) for each month no more than 90 days following the last day of the month covered by the report. States shall not receive Program funds for any month for which the final report is not postmarked and/or submitted within this time limit unless FNS grants an exception. Upward adjustments to a State's report shall not be made after 90 days from the month covered by the report unless authorized by FNS. Downward adjustments shall always be made without FNS authorization, regardless of when it is determined that such adjustments need to be made. Adjustments to a State's report shall be reported to FNS in accordance with procedures established by FNS. Each State agency shall also submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of Program funds. Such reports shall be submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year quarter. Obligations shall be reported only for the fiscal year in which they occur. Action may be taken against the State agency, in accordance with ยง 225.5(a)(1), for failure to submit accurate and timely reports.

(c) The State agency must submit to FNS a final Financial Status Report no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, on a form (FNS-777) provided by FNS. Any requested increase in reimbursement levels for a fiscal year resulting from corrective action taken after submission of the final Program Operations and Financial Status Reports shall be submitted to FNS for approval. The request shall be accompanied by a written explanation of the basis for the adjustment and the actions taken to minimize the need for such adjustments in the future. If FNS approves such an increase, it will make payment, subject to availability of funds. Any reduction in reimbursement for that fiscal year resulting from corrective action taken after submission of the final fiscal year Program Operations and Financial Status Reports shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of ยง 225.12(d), except that amounts recovered may not be used to make Program payments.

(d)(1) By May 1 of each year, State agencies must submit to the appropriate FNSRO a list of potential private nonprofit organization sponsors. The list must include the following information for each applicant sponsor:

(i) Name and address;

(ii) Geographical area(s) proposed to be served;

(iii) Proposed number of sites; and

(iv) Any available details of each proposed site including address, dates of operation, and estimated daily attendance.

(2) State agencies must also notify the appropriate FNSRO within 5 working days after they approve each private nonprofit organization to participate as a SFSP sponsor. When State agencies notify the FNSRO of sponsor approval, they must provide the following information:

(i) Any changes to site locations, dates of operation, and estimated daily attendance that was previously provided;

(ii) The hours and type(s) of approved meal service at each site;

(iii) The type of site approval-open, restricted open, closed enrolled, or camp; and

(iv) Any other important details about each site that would help the FNSRO plan reviews, including whether the site is rural or urban, or vended or self-preparation.
