
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.9 Program assistance to sponsors.
######## Commodity assistance.

(b)(1) Sponsors eligible to receive commodities under the Program include: Self-preparation sponsors; sponsors which have entered into an agreement with a school or school food authority for the preparation of meals; and sponsors which are school food authorities and have competitively procured Program meals from the same food service management company from which they competitively procured meals for the National School Lunch Program during the last period in which school was in session. The State agency shall make available to these sponsors information on available commodities. Sponsors shall use in the Program food donated by the Department and accepted by sponsors.

(2) Not later than June 1 of each year, State agencies shall prepare a list of the sponsors which are eligible to receive commodities and the average daily number of eligible meals to be served by each of these sponsors. If the State agency does not handle the distribution of commodities donated by the Department, this list shall be forwarded to the agency of the State responsible for the distribution of commodities. The State agency shall be responsible for promptly revising the list to reflect additions or terminations of sponsors and for adjusting the average daily participation data as it deems necessary.
