
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - State Agency Provisions
####### ยง 225.12 Claims against sponsors.

(a) The State agency shall disallow any portion of a claim for reimbursement and recover any payment to a sponsor not properly payable under this part, except as provided for in ยง 225.10(c). State agencies shall consider claims for reimbursement not properly payable if a sponsor's records do not support all meals claimed and include all costs associated with the Program sufficient to justify that reimbursements were spent only on allowable Child Nutrition Program costs. However, the State agency shall notify the sponsor of the reasons for any disallowance or demand for repayment.

(b) Minimum State agency collection procedures for unearned payments shall include:

(1) Written demand to the sponsor for the return of improper payments;

(2) If after 30 calendar days the sponsor fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, a second written demand for the return of improper payments, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested;

(3) If after 60 calendar days following the original written demand, the sponsor fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, a third written demand for the return of improper payments, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested;

(4) If after 90 calendar days following the original written demand, the sponsor fails to remit full payment or agree to a satisfactory repayment schedule, the State agency shall refer the claim against the sponsor to the appropriate State or Federal authorities for pursuit of legal remedies.

(c) If FNS does not concur with the State agency's action in paying a sponsor or in failing to collect an overpayment, FNS shall notify the State agency of its intention to assert a claim against the State agency. In all such cases, the State agency shall have full opportunity to submit evidence concerning the action taken. The State agency shall be liable to FNS for failure to collect an overpayment unless FNS determines that the State agency has conformed with this part in issuing the payment and has exerted reasonable efforts in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section to recover the improper payment.

(d) The amounts recovered by the State agency from sponsors may be utilized to make Program payments to sponsors for the period for which the funds were initially available and/or to repay the State for any of its own funds used to make payments on claims for reimbursement. Any amounts recovered which are not so utilized shall be returned to FNS in accordance with the requirements of this part.
