
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Sponsor and Site Provisions
####### ยง 225.14 Requirements for sponsor participation.
######## Requirements specific to sponsor types.

(d)(1) If the sponsor is a camp, it must certify that it will collect information on participants' eligibility to support its claim for reimbursement.

(2) If the sponsor administers the Program at sites that provide summer school sessions, it must ensure that these sites are open to children enrolled in summer school and to all children residing in the area served by the site.

(3) Sponsors which are units of local, municipal, county, or State government, and sponsors which are private nonprofit organizations, will only be approved to administer the Program at sites where they have administrative oversight. Administrative oversight means that the sponsor shall be responsible for:

(i) Maintaining contact with meal service staff, ensuring that there is adequately trained meal service staff on site, monitoring the meal service throughout the period of Program participation, and terminating meal service at a site if staff fail to comply with Program regulations; and

(ii) Exercising management control over Program operations at sites throughout the period of Program participation by performing the functions specified in ยง 225.15.

(4) If the sponsor administers homeless feeding sites, it must:

(i) Document that the site is not a residential child-care institution as defined in paragraph (c) of the definition of 'School' contained in ยง 210.2 of this chapter;

(ii) Document that the primary purpose of the homeless feeding site is to provide shelter and meals to homeless families; and

(iii) Certify that these sites employ meal counting methods to ensure that reimbursement is claimed only for meals served to homeless and non-homeless children.

(5) If the sponsor administers NYSP sites, it must ensure that all children at these sites are enrolled participants in the NYSP.

(6) If the sponsor is a private nonprofit organization, it must certify that it:

(i) Exercises full control and authority over the operation of the Program at all sites under the sponsorship of the organization;

(ii) Provides ongoing year-round activities for children or families;

(iii) Demonstrates that the organization has adequate management and the fiscal capacity to operate the Program;

(iv) Is an organization described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under 501(a) of that Code; and

(v) Meets applicable State and local health, safety, and sanitation standards.
