
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Sponsor and Site Provisions
####### § 225.15 Management responsibilities of sponsors.
######## et seq.

(2) Sponsors shall not claim reimbursement under parts 210, 215, 220, or 226 of this chapter. In addition, the sponsor must ensure that records of any site serving homeless children accurately reflect commodity allotments received as a "charitable institution", as defined in §§ 250.3 and 250.41 of this chapter. Commodities received for Program meals must be based only on the number of eligible children's meals served. Sponsors may use funds from other Federally-funded programs to supplement their meal service but must, in calculating their claim for reimbursement, deduct such funds from total operating and administrative costs in accordance with the definition of "income accruing to the Program" at § 225.2 and with the regulations at § 225.9(d). Sponsors which are school food authorities may use facilities, equipment and personnel supported by funds provided under this part to support a nonprofit nutrition program for the elderly, including a program funded under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001).

(3) No sponsor may contract out for the management responsibilities of the Program described in this section.

(4) Sponsors must maintain documentation of a nonprofit food service including copies of all revenues received and expenses paid from the nonprofit food service account. Program reimbursements and expenditures may be included in a single nonprofit food service account with funds from any other Child Nutrition Programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, except the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children. All Program reimbursement funds must be used solely for the conduct of the nonprofit food service operation. The net cash resources of the nonprofit food service of each sponsor participating in the Program may not exceed one month's average expenditures for sponsors operating only during the summer months and three months' average expenditures for sponsors operating Child Nutrition Programs throughout the year. State agency approval shall be required for net cash resources in excess of the requirements set forth in this paragraph (a)(4). Sponsors shall monitor Program costs and, in the event that net cash resources exceed the requirements outlined, take action to improve the meal service or other aspects of the Program.
