
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Sponsor and Site Provisions
####### ยง 225.15 Management responsibilities of sponsors.
######## Meal Ordering.

(b)(1) Each sponsor shall, to the maximum extent feasible, utilize either its own food service facilities or obtain meals from a school food service facility. If the sponsor obtains meals from a school food service facility, the applicable requirements of this part shall be embodied in a written agreement between the sponsor and the school.

(2) Upon approval of its application or any adjustment in the approved levels of meal service for its sites established under ยง 225.6(h)(2), vended sponsors shall inform their food service management company of the approved level at each site for which the food service management company will provide meals.

(3) Sponsors shall plan for and prepare or order meals on the basis of participation trends with the objective of providing only one meal per child at each meal service. The sponsor shall make the adjustments necessary to achieve this objective using the results from its monitoring of sites. For sites for which approved levels of meal service have been established in accordance with ยง 225.6(h)(2), the sponsor shall adjust the number of meals ordered or prepared with the objective of providing only one meal per child whenever the number of children attending the site is below the approved level. The sponsor shall not order or prepare meals for children at any site in excess of the site's approved level, but may order or prepare meals above the approved level if the meals are to be served to adults performing necessary food service labor in accordance with ยง 225.9(d)(5). Records of participation and of preparation or ordering of meals shall be maintained to demonstrate positive action toward meeting this objective.

(4) In recognition of the fluctuation in participation levels which makes it difficult to estimate precisely the number of meals needed and to reduce the resultant waste, sponsors may claim reimbursement for a number of second meals which does not exceed two percent of the number of first meals served to children for each meal type (i.e., breakfasts, lunches, supplements, or suppers) during the claiming period. The State agency shall disallow all claims for second meals if it determines that the sponsor failed to plan and prepare or order meals with the objective of providing only one meal per child at each meal service. Second meals shall be served only after all participating children at the site's meal service have been served a meal.
