
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Sponsor and Site Provisions
####### ยง 225.15 Management responsibilities of sponsors.
######## Training and monitoring.

(d)(1) Each sponsor must hold Program training sessions for its administrative and site personnel and must not allow a site to operate until personnel have attended at least one of these training sessions. The State agency may waive these training requirements for operation of the Program during unanticipated school closures. Training of site personnel must, at a minimum, include: the purpose of the Program; site eligibility; recordkeeping; site operations; meal pattern requirements; and the duties of a monitor. Each sponsor must ensure that its administrative personnel attend State agency training provided to sponsors, and sponsors must provide training throughout the summer to ensure that administrative personnel are thoroughly knowledgeable in all required areas of Program administration and operation and are provided with sufficient information to enable them to carry out their Program responsibilities. Each site must have present at each meal service at least one person who has received this training.

(2) Sponsors must visit each of their sites, as specified below, at least once during the first two weeks of program operations and must promptly take such actions as are necessary to correct any deficiencies. In cases where the site operates for seven calendar days or fewer, the visit must be conducted during the period of operation. Sponsors must conduct these visits for:

(i) All new sites;

(ii) All sites that have been determined by the sponsor to need a visit based on criteria established by the State agency pertaining to operational problems noted in the prior year, as set forth in ยง 225.7(o); and

(iii) Any other sites that the State agency has determined need a visit.

(3) Sponsors must conduct a full review of food service operations at each site at least once during the first four weeks of Program operations, and thereafter must maintain a reasonable level of site monitoring. Sponsors must complete a monitoring form developed by the State agency during the conduct of these reviews. Sponsors may conduct a full review of food service operations at the same time they are conducting a site visit required under (d)(2) in this section.
