
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Sponsor and Site Provisions
####### ยง 225.15 Management responsibilities of sponsors.
######## Information or notices required on application forms.

(4)Application forms or descriptive materials given to households about applying for free meals must contain the following information:

(i) The family-size and income levels for reduced price school meal eligibility with an explanation that households with incomes less than or equal to these values are eligible for free Program meals (The income levels for free school meal eligibility must not be included on the application or in other materials given to the household).

(ii) A statement that a foster child who is a member of a household that receives SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits is automatically eligible to receive free meals in the Program;

(iii) A statement informing households of how information provided on the application will be used. Each application for free meals must include substantially the following statement:

(A) "The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act requires the information on this application. You do not have to give the information, but if you do not, we cannot approve your child for free or reduced-price meals. You must include the last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application. The last four digits of the social security number are not required when you apply on behalf of a foster child or you list a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program or Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) case number or other FDPIR identifier for your child or when you indicate that the adult household member signing the application does not have a social security number. We MAY share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs to help them evaluate, fund, or determine benefits for their programs, and with auditors for program reviews and law enforcement officials to help them look into violations of program rules."

(B) When the State agency or sponsor, as appropriate, plans to use or disclose children's eligibility information for non-program purposes, additional information, as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, must be added to the statement. State agencies and sponsors are responsible for drafting the appropriate notice.

(iv) The statement used to inform the household about the use of social security numbers must comply with the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579). If a State or local agency plans to use the social security numbers for uses not described in paragraph (f)(4)(iv) of this section, the notice must be revised to explain those uses.

(v) Examples of income that should be provided on the application, including: Earnings, wages, welfare benefits, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security, and other cash income;

(vi) A notice placed immediately above the signature block stating that the person signing the application certifies that all information provided is correct, that the household is applying for Federal benefits in the form of free Program meals, that Program officials may verify the information on the application, and that purposely providing untrue or misleading statements may result in prosecution under State or Federal criminal laws; and

(vii) A statement that if SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF case numbers are provided, they may be used to verify the current SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF certification for the children for whom free meals benefits are claimed.
