
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Sponsor and Site Provisions
####### ยง 225.15 Management responsibilities of sponsors.
######## Food service management companies.

(m)(1) Failure by a sponsor to comply with the provisions of this section shall be sufficient grounds for the State agency to terminate that sponsor's participation in accordance with ยง 225.18.

(2) Any sponsor may contract with a food service management company to manage the sponsor's food service operations and/or for the preparation of unitized meals with or without milk or juice. Exceptions to the unitizing requirement may only be made in accordance with the provisions set forth at ยง 225.6(l)(3).

(3) Any vended sponsor shall be responsible for ensuring that its food service operation is in conformity with its agreement with the State agency and with all the applicable provisions of this part.

(4) In addition to any applicable State or local laws governing bid procedures, and with the exceptions identified in this paragraph, each sponsor which contracts with a food service management company shall comply with the competitive bid procedures described in this paragraph. Sponsors that are schools or school food authorities and have an exclusive contract with a food service management company for year-round service, and sponsors whose total contracts with food service management companies will not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, shall not be required to comply with these procedures. These exceptions do not relieve the sponsor of the responsibility to ensure that competitive procurement procedures are followed in contracting with any food service management company. Each sponsor whose proposed contract is subject to the specific bid procedures set forth in this paragraph shall ensure, at a minimum, that:

(i) All proposed contracts are publicly announced at least once, not less than 14 calendar days prior to the opening of bids, and the announcement includes the time and place of the bid opening;

(ii) The bids are publicly opened;

(iii) The State agency is notified, at least 14 calendar days prior to the opening of the bids, of the time and place of the bid opening;

(iv) The invitation to bid does not specify a minimum price;

(v) The invitation to bid contains a cycle menu approved by the State agency upon which the bid is based;

(vi) The invitation to bid contains food specifications and meal quality standards approved by the State agency upon which the bid is based;

(vii) The invitation to bid does not specify special meal requirements to meet ethnic or religious needs unless such special requirements are necessary to meet the needs of the children to be served;

(viii) Neither the invitation to bid nor the contract provides for loans or any other monetary benefit or term or condition to be made to sponsors by food service management companies;

(ix) Nonfood items are excluded from the invitation to bid, except where such items are essential to the conduct of the food service;

(x) Copies of all contracts between sponsors and food service management companies, along with a certification of independent price determination, are submitted to the State agency prior to the beginning of Program operations;

(xi) Copies of all bids received are submitted to the State agency, along with the sponsor's reason for choosing the successful bidder; and

(xii) All bids in an amount which exceeds the lowest bid and all bids totaling the amount specified in the small purchase threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, or more are submitted to the State agency for approval before acceptance. State agencies shall respond to a request for approval of such bids within 5 working days of receipt.

(5) Each food service management company which submits a bid exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, shall obtain a bid bond in an amount not less than 5 percent nor more than 10 percent, as determined by the sponsor, of the value of the contract for which the bid is made. A copy of the bid bond shall accompany each bid.

(6) Each food service management company which enters into a food service contract exceeding the small purchase threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable, with a sponsor shall obtain a performance bond in an amount not less than 10 percent nor more than 25 percent of the value of the contract for which the bid is made, as determined by the State agency. Any food service management company which enters into more than one contract with any one sponsor shall obtain a performance bond covering all contracts if the aggregate amount of the contracts exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold in 2 CFR part 200, as applicable. Sponsors shall require the food service management company to furnish a copy of the performance bond within ten days of the awarding of the contract.

(7) Food service management companies shall obtain bid bonds and performance bonds only from surety companies listed in the current Department of the Treasury Circular 570. No sponsor or State agency shall allow food service management companies to post any "alternative" forms of bid or performance bonds, including but not limited to cash, certified checks, letters of credit, or escrow accounts.
