
# Title 7 - Agriculture
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
### Chapter II - Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture
#### Subchapter A - Child Nutrition Programs
##### PART 225 - SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM
###### Subpart C - Sponsor and Site Provisions
####### ยง 225.16 Meal service requirements.
######## Meat or meat alternate.

(e)Meat or meat alternates served under the Program are subject to the following requirements and recommendations.

(1) The required quantity of meat or meat alternate shall be the quantity of the edible portion as served. These foods must be served in a main dish, or in a main dish and one other menu item.

(2) Cooked dry beans or peas may be used as a meat alternate or as a vegetable, but they may not be used to meet both component requirements in a meal.

(3) Enriched macaroni with fortified protein may be used to meet part but not all of the meat/meat alternate requirement. The Department will provide guidance to State agencies on the part of the meat/meat alternate requirement which these foods may be used to meet. If enriched macaroni with fortified protein is served as a meat alternate it shall not be counted toward the bread requirement.

(4) If the sponsor believes that the recommended portion size of any meat or meat alternate is too large to be appealing to children, the sponsor may reduce the portion size of that meat or meat alternate and supplement it with another meat or meat alternate to meet the full requirement.

(5) Nuts and seeds and their butters listed in program guidance are nutritionally comparable to meat or other meat alternates based on available nutritional data. Acorns, chestnuts, and coconuts shall not be used as meat alternates due to their low protein content. Nut and seed meals or flours shall not be used as a meat alternate except as defined in this section under paragraph (e)(3) and in this part under Appendix A: Alternate Foods for Meals. As noted in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, nuts or seeds may be used to meet no more than one-half of the meat/meat alternate requirement for lunch or supper. Therefore, nuts or seeds must be combined with another meat/meat alternate to fulfill the requirement. For the supplemental food pattern, nuts or seeds may be used to fulfill all of the meat/meat alternate requirement.
