
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter B - Cooperative Control and Eradication of Livestock or Poultry Diseases
#### PART 56 - CONTROL OF H5/H7 LOW PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA
##### § 56.2 Cooperation with States.

(a) The Administrator has been delegated the authority to cooperate with Cooperating State Agencies in the eradication of H5/H7 LPAI. This cooperation may include, but is not necessarily limited to, the following activities:

(1) Payment to Cooperating State Agencies for surveillance and monitoring associated with poultry that have been infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI;

(2) Transfer of vaccine for H5/H7 LPAI to Cooperating State Agencies if provided for in the initial State response and containment plan approved by APHIS under § 56.10; and

(3) Payment for vaccine administration by Cooperating State Agencies, if provided for in the initial State response and containment plan approved by APHIS under § 56.10.

(b)(1) Any payment made to a State or an Official State Agency for the activities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section must be made through a cooperative agreement between the Cooperating State Agency and APHIS. The payment for which the Cooperating State Agency is eligible will be determined in the cooperative agreement.

(i) For any Cooperating State Agency that participates in the National Poultry Improvement Plan diagnostic surveillance program for H5/H7 LPAI, as described in § 146.14 of this chapter, and has an initial State response and containment plan for H5/H7 LPAI that is approved by APHIS, as described in § 56.10 of this part, the cooperative agreement will provide that the Cooperating State Agency is eligible for payment of 100 percent of the costs of surveillance and monitoring and 100 percent of the costs of vaccine administration, as determined in the cooperative agreement.

(ii) For any Cooperating State Agency that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the cooperative agreement will provide that the Cooperating State Agency is eligible for payment of 25 percent of the costs of surveillance and monitoring and 25 percent of the costs of vaccine administration, as determined in the cooperative agreement.

(2) Transfer of vaccine under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be accomplished through a cooperative agreement between the Cooperating State Agency and APHIS.

(c) Cooperating State Agencies will be responsible for making the determination to request Federal assistance under this part in the event of an outbreak of H5/H7 LPAI.
