
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter B - Cooperative Control and Eradication of Livestock or Poultry Diseases
#### PART 56 - CONTROL OF H5/H7 LOW PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA
##### § 56.4 Determination of indemnity and/or compensation amounts.
###### Cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination).

(b)(1) Compensation for cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials that came into contact with poultry that are infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI will be determined using the current APHIS flat-rate virus elimination (VE) calculator in effect at the time of the infection, except in instances when the claimant and APHIS jointly agree the VE calculator is not applicable to the premises type.

(2) For premises types for which a flat-rate VE calculator is not applicable, reimbursement will be based on receipts or other documentation maintained by the claimant verifying expenditures for cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) activities authorized by this part. Any cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials for which compensation is requested must be performed under a compliance agreement between the claimant, the Cooperating State Agency, and APHIS. APHIS will review claims for compensation for cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) to ensure that all expenditures relate directly to activities described in § 56.5 and in the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10.

(i) In the case of materials, if the cost of cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) would exceed the value of the materials or cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) would be impracticable for any reason, compensation for the destruction of the materials will be based on the fair market value (depreciated value) of those materials, as determined by an appraisal. Materials will be appraised by an APHIS official appraiser. Compensation for disposal of the materials will be based on receipts or other documentation maintained by the claimant verifying expenditures for disposal activities authorized by this part. Appraisals of materials must be reported on forms furnished by APHIS and must be signed by the appraisers and by the owners of the materials to indicate agreement with the appraisal amount. Appraisals of materials must be signed and received by APHIS prior to the disassembly or destruction of the materials, unless the owners, APHIS, and the Cooperating State Agency agree in writing that the materials may be disassembled and/or destroyed immediately. Any disposal of materials for which compensation is requested must be performed under a compliance agreement between the claimant, the Cooperating State Agency, and APHIS. APHIS will review claims for compensation for disposal to ensure that all expenditures relate directly to activities described in § 56.5 and in the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10.

(ii) [Reserved]
