
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 71 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 71.3 Interstate movement of diseased animals and poultry generally prohibited.

(a) Animals or poultry affected with any of the following diseases, which are endemic to the United States: Equine piroplasmosis, bovine piroplasmosis or splenetic fever, scabies in cattle, pseudorabies, acute swine erysipelas, tuberculosis, Johne's disease, brucellosis, scrapie, bluetongue, anthrax, chlamydiosis, and Newcastle disease, or any other communicable disease which is endemic to the United States, or which are cattle fever tick infested, shall not be moved interstate.

(b) Animals or poultry affected with any of the following diseases, not known to exist in the United States: foot-and-mouth disease, African swine fever, classical swine fever, Teschen disease, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, highly pathogenic avian influenza, dourine, contagious equine metritis, vesicular exanthema, screwworms and glanders, scabies in sheep or any other communicable foreign disease not known to exist in the United States, shall not be moved interstate.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:

(1) Domestic animals that have reacted to an official test for brucellosis, are not affected with any other disease referred to in this section, and are not tick infested may be moved interstate in accordance with part 78 of this chapter.

(2) Domestic animals that are positive to an official Johne's disease test, are not affected with any other disease referred to in this section, and are not tick infested may be moved interstate in accordance with part 80 of this chapter.

(3) Cattle which have reacted to the tuberculin test, which are not affected with any other disease referred to in this section and are not tick infested, may be moved interstate in accordance with the provisions of ยง 77.17 of this subchapter.

(4) Swine infected with or exposed to pseudorabies may be moved interstate in accordance with part 85 of this chapter.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Sheep or goats designated, with regard to scrapie, as exposed animals, high-risk animals, suspect animals, or scrapie-positive animals, as those terms are defined in part 79 of this subchapter, may be moved interstate only in accordance with part 79 of this subchapter.
