
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 71 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 71.10 Permitted disinfectants.
###### et seq.

(5) Disinfectants which are registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 135), with tuberculocidal claims, as disinfectants for general use, may be used for the purpose of this part in accordance with directions on the labels accepted in connection with their registration. However, disinfectants which fall in this category are not permitted for use in outbreaks of foreign animal diseases unless in specific cases such use is approved in advance by the Administrator.

(b) The use of "cresylic disinfectant" is permitted subject to the following conditions:

(1) The manufacturer thereof shall have obtained specific permission from APHIS for the use of his products in official disinfection. To obtain such permission manufacturers shall first submit a sample of at least 8 ounces for examination, together with a statement of the formula employed and a guaranty that the product will be maintained of a quality uniform with the sample submitted.

(2) To prevent confusion, the product of each manufacturer and distributor shall bear a distinctive trade name or brand, together with the name of the manufacturer or distributor.

(3) The product shall at all times conform to specifications for composition and performance issued by the Administrator.
