
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 71 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 71.22 Approval of laboratories to conduct official testing.
###### Applications for approval.

(g)(1) Laboratories must use APHIS application forms, including an agreement to meet the obligations to APHIS listed in this section, and submit completed forms to the NVSL Director. The Director will make a preliminary determination of the application's acceptability, based on initial review of submitted materials and, when appropriate, a needs assessment for diagnostic capacity. These determinations are made on an annual basis, or as needed based on the number of applications received.

(2) Applicants will be informed of the preliminary determination. If positive, applicants will then be able to request a facility inspection and personnel training, conducted in accordance with this section. If negative, APHIS will provide a rationale for the denial. Denied applicants may appeal any denials in accordance with the regulations in paragraph (j) of this section;

(3) When all requirements in this section have been met, the NVSL Director will issue a final approval. Approvals are specific to those lab personnel working at the inspected, approved laboratory who have met the eligibility and proficiency requirements. Denied applicants may appeal any denials in accordance with the regulations in paragraph (j) of this section.
