
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 71 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### ยง 71.22 Approval of laboratories to conduct official testing.
###### Probation, suspension, and rescission of laboratory approval.

(i)(1) Laboratories not conducting the minimum number of tests as required by paragraph (h)(3) of this section during a single reporting period will be assigned probationary status. A reporting period is less than or equal to the time for which the laboratory has been approved to conduct testing by APHIS. Laboratories on probation may continue to conduct official testing. If the minimum required number of tests are not performed during two consecutive reporting periods, the laboratory will not be eligible for renewal of APHIS approval. Exceptions to this requirement may be granted by the NVSL Director upon request.

(2) Approval to conduct official testing will be suspended in the event that a laboratory experiences changes that may impact its ability to provide quality testing services. These changes include: No longer employing an individual approved to conduct official testing, a move to different facilities, or a natural disaster that impacts power or water systems. Laboratories with suspended status will not be approved to conduct official testing. Laboratories will be restored to approved status upon training and/or testing new personnel, successful inspection of new facilities, and/or correction of noncompliance issues. Reapproval will involve resubmitting those sections of the application materials required by the NVSL Director.

(3) Approval may be rescinded at any time, at the discretion of the NVSL Director, if a laboratory fails to meet its obligations to APHIS, as listed in the agreement signed by the laboratory during the application process. The NVSL Director will issue a notice to the laboratory, providing the justification for the proposed removal. Laboratories will have 30 days to respond in writing to the concerns provided before the NVSL Director finalizes the removal decision.
