
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 73 - SCABIES IN CATTLE
##### ยง 73.10 Permitted dips; substances allowed.
###### et seq.

(2) Dips made from specifically permitted proprietary brand emulsions of toxaphene and maintained throughout the dipping operation at a concentration between 0.50 and 0.60 percent toxaphene. Animals treated by such dips should not be slaughtered for food purposes until the expiration of such period as may be required under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C., Supp. III, 601). The length of this required period shall be specified on each certificate issued by the APHIS inspector or State inspector who supervises the dipping with such dips.

(3) Approved proprietary brands of coumaphos (Co-Ral &#xAE;), 25 percent wettable powder or flowable form used at a concentration of 0.30 percent.

(4) Approved proprietary brands of organophosphorous insecticides (Prolate &#xAE;) used at a concentration of 0.15 percent to 0.25 percent.

(b) The dipping bath for lime-sulphur dip must be used at a temperature of 95&#xB0; to 105 &#xB0;F., and must be maintained through the dipping operation at a concentration of not less than 2 percent of "sulphide sulphur", as indicated by the field test for lime-sulphur dipping baths approved by the APHIS.The dipping bath for toxaphene emulsions must be kept within a temperature range of 40-80 &#xB0;F., and at a concentration between 0.50 and 0.60 percent throughout the dipping operations.
