
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Animal Welfare
#### PART 2 - REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Research Facilities
###### ยง 2.38 Miscellaneous.
####### Identification of dogs and cats.

(g)(1) All live dogs or cats, including those from any exempt source, delivered for transportation, transported, purchased or otherwise acquired, sold, or disposed of by a research facility, shall be identified at the time of such delivery for transportation, purchase, sale, disposal, or acquisition in one of the following ways:

(i) By the official tag or tattoo which was affixed to the animal at the time it was acquired by the research facility, as required by this section; or

(ii) By a tag, tattoo, or collar, applied to the live dog or cat by the research facility and which individually identifies the dog or cat by number.

(2) All official tag or tattoo numbers shall be correctly listed in the records of purchase, acquisition, disposal, or sale which shall be maintained in accordance with ยง 2.35.

(3) Unweaned puppies or kittens need not be individually identified while they are maintained as a litter with their dam in the same primary enclosure, provided the dam has been individually identified.

(4) The official tag shall be made of a durable alloy such as brass, bronze, or steel, or of a durable plastic. Aluminum of a sufficient thickness to assure the tag is durable and legible may also be used. The tag may be circular in shape and not less than 1inches in diameter, or oblong and flat in shape and not less than 2 inches byinch, and riveted to an acceptable collar.

(5) Each tag shall have the following information embossed or stamped on so that it is easily readable:

(i) The letters "USDA";

(ii) Numbers identifying the State and dealer, exhibitor, or research facility (e.g., 39-AB); and

(iii) Numbers identifying the animal (e.g., 82488).

(6) Official tags shall be serially numbered and shall be applied to dogs or cats in the manner set forth in this section in as close to consecutive numerical order as possible. No tag number shall be used to identify more than one animal or shall be reused within a 5-year period.

(7) Research facilities may obtain, at their own expense, official tags from commercial tag manufacturers.At the time the research facility is registered, the Department will assign identification letters and numbers to be used on the official tags.

(8) Each research facility shall be held accountable for all official tags acquired. In the event an official tag is lost from a dog or cat while in the possession of a research facility, the facility shall make a diligent effort to locate and reapply the tag to the proper animal. If the lost tag is not located, the research facility shall affix another official tag to the animal in the manner prescribed in this section and record the tag number on the official records.

(9) When a dog or cat wearing or identified by an official tag arrives at a research facility, the facility may continue to use that tag to identify the dog or cat or the tag may be replaced as indicated in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. All tags removed by a research facility shall be retained and disposed of as indicated in this section.

(10) Where a dog or cat to which is affixed or which is identified by an official tag is euthanized, or dies from other causes, the research facility shall remove and retain the tag for the required period, as set forth in paragraph (g)(11) of this section.

(11) All official tags removed and retained by a research facility shall be held until called for by an APHIS official or for a period of 1 year.

(12) When official tags are removed from animals for disposal, the tags must be disposed of so as to preclude their reuse for animal identification. No animal identification number shall be used within any 5-year period following its previous use.
