
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 77 - TUBERCULOSIS
##### Subpart C - Captive Cervids
###### ยง 77.34 Official tuberculosis tests.
####### Primary tests,Single cervical tuberculin (SCT) test.

(a)-(1)(i) The SCT test is a primary test that may be used in individual captive cervids and in herds of unknown tuberculous status. Each captive cervid that responds to the SCT test must be classified as a suspect until it is retested with the CCT test and is either found negative for tuberculosis or is classified as a reactor, unless, with exception of a designated accredited veterinarian, the testing veterinarian determines that the captive cervid should be classified as a reactor based on its response to the SCT test. A designated accredited veterinarian must classify a responding captive cervid as a suspect, unless APHIS determines, based on epidemiological evidence, that the captive cervid should be classified as a reactor. A captive cervid that responds to the SCT test must not be retested using the DPP&#xAE; test.

(ii) The SCT test is a primary test that may be used in affected herds and in herds that have received captive cervids from an affected herd. When used with affected herds or in herds that have received a captive cervid from an affected herd, the SCT test may only be administered by a veterinarian employed by the State in which the test is administered or employed by USDA. In affected herds or herds that have received captive cervids from an affected herd, each captive cervid that responds to the SCT test must be classified as a reactor, unless APHIS determines, based on epidemiological evidence, that the cervid should be classified as a suspect because of possible exposure to a tuberculous animal.
