
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 77 - TUBERCULOSIS
##### Subpart C - Captive Cervids
###### ยง 77.39 Other interstate movements.
####### Herds containing a suspect,The suspect.

(a)-(1)(i) A captive cervid classified as a suspect on the SCT test must be quarantined until it is slaughtered or retested by the CCT test and found negative for tuberculosis. Retesting must be as follows:

(A) The first CCT test must be administered within the first 10 days following the SCT test or, if not, must be administered at least 90 days after the SCT test. If the CCT test is administered within 10 days of the SCT test, the injection must be on the side of the neck opposite the injection for the SCT test.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) A captive cervid classified as a suspect on the first CCT test must be quarantined until the following has occurred:

(A) A suspect on the first CCT test is tested with a second CCT test at least 90 days after the first CCT test and is found negative for tuberculosis.

(B) [Reserved]

(iii) A captive cervid classified as a suspect on an initial DPP&#xAE; test must be slaughtered or otherwise must be quarantined until it is retested using the DPP&#xAE; test. A captive cervid that has negative test results to this second DPP&#xAE; test may be released from quarantine. A captive cervid that has non-negative test results to this second DPP&#xAE; test must be classified as a reactor and may only be moved in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
