
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 78 - BRUCELLOSIS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 78.1 Definitions.
####### Fluorescence polarization assay (FP assay).

(5)An automated serologic test to determine the brucellosis status of test-eligible swine when conducted according to instructions approved by APHIS. FP assays are interpreted as either positive, negative, or suspect. A 40-microliter sample is used. If a sample reads <10 millipolarization units (mP) above the mean negative control, the sample is considered negative. If a sample reads >20 mP above the mean negative control, the sample is considered positive. Samples that read between 10 and 20 mP above the negative control mean must be retested using 40 microliters of sample. If the 40-microliter sample is >20 mP above the mean negative control, the sample is considered positive. If the 40-microliter sample is still in the 10 to 20 mP range above the mean negative control, the sample is considered suspect. If the 40-microliter sample is <10 mP above the mean negative control, the sample is considered negative. Swine with negative FP assay results are classified as brucellosis negative. Swine with positive FP assay results are classified as brucellosis reactors, while swine with suspect FP assay results are classified as brucellosis suspects.

(6) The evaluation of test results for all swine shall be the responsibility of a designated epidemiologist in each State. The designated epidemiologist shall consider the animal and herd history and other epidemiologic factors when determining the brucellosis classification of swine. Deviations from the brucellosis classification criteria as provided in this definition of official test are acceptable when made by the designated epidemiologist.
