
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 78 - BRUCELLOSIS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 78.1 Definitions.
####### Quarantined feedlot.

A confined area under State quarantine approved jointly by the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in Charge. Approval will be granted only after a State representative or APHIS representative inspects the confined area and determines that all cattle and bison are secure and isolated from contact with all other cattle and bison, that there are facilities for identifying cattle and bison, and that there is no possibility of brucellosis being mechanically transmitted from the confined area. The quarantined feedlot shall be maintained for feeding cattle and bison for slaughter, with no provisions for pasturing or grazing. All cattle and bison in a quarantined feedlot, except steers and spayed heifers, shall be treated as brucellosis exposed.

(a) All cattle and bison, except steers and spayed heifers, leaving the quarantined feedlot must (1) Be accompanied by a permit and move directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment; or (2) Be "S" branded and accompanied by an "S" brand permit and move directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to another quarantined feedlot or a recognized slaughtering establishment; or (3) Be accompanied by a permit issued by the State animal health official and move directly to another quarantined feedlot; or (4) After being "S" branded at the quarantined feedlot, be accompanied by an "S" brand permit and move directly to a specifically approved stockyard approved to receive brucellosis exposed cattle and bison and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment or another quarantined feedlot; or (5) After being "S" branded at the quarantined feedlot, be accompanied by an "S" brand permit and move directly to a specifically approved stockyard approved to receive brucellosis exposed cattle and bison and then directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to another quarantined feedlot or a recognized slaughtering establishment. However, finished fed cattle moving directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment are exempt from the permit/"S" brand permit requirement.

(b) The State animal health official and the Veterinarian in Charge shall establish procedures for accounting for all cattle and bison entering or leaving quarantined feedlots.
