
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 78 - BRUCELLOSIS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 78.1 Definitions.
####### Quarantined pasture.

A confined grazing area under State quarantine approved by the State animal health official, Veterinarian in Charge and the Administrator. A justification of the need for the quarantined pasture must be prepared by the State animal health official and/or Veterinarian in Charge and submitted to the Administrator. An intensified brucellosis eradication effort which produces large numbers of brucellosis exposed cattle or bison or official adult vaccinates needing the grazing period to reach slaughter condition would be an acceptable justification. Approval will be granted only after a State representative or APHIS representative inspects the confined grazing area and determines that all cattle and bison are secure and isolated from contact with all other cattle and bison, that there are facilities for identifying the cattle and bison, and that there is no possibility of brucellosis being mechanically transmitted from the confined grazing area. The quarantined pasture shall be for utilizing available forage for growth or to improve flesh condition of cattle or bison. No cattle or bison may be moved interstate into these quarantined pastures, which shall be restricted for use by cattle or bison originating within the State. All cattle or bison shall be of the same sex, except that neutered cattle and bison may share the quarantined pasture. All cattle and bison, except steers and spayed heifers, must be "S" branded upon entering the quarantined pasture. All cattle and bison, except steers and spayed heifers, leaving the quarantined pasture must move directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment or quarantined feedlot, or directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment, or directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a quarantined feedlot and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment. The movement shall be in accordance with established procedures for handling brucellosis exposed cattle and bison, including issuance of "S" brand permits prior to movement. The State animal health official and Veterinarian in Charge shall establish procedures for accounting for all cattle and bison entering and leaving the quarantined pasture. All brucellosis exposed cattle and bison must vacate the premises on or before the expiration of approval, which may not last longer than 10 months.
