
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 78 - BRUCELLOSIS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 78.1 Definitions.
####### "S" brand permit.

A document prepared at the point of origin which lists the points of origin and destination, the number of animals covered, the purpose of movement, and one of the following: The official eartag number, individual animal registered breed association registration tattoo, individual animal registered breed association registration brand, individual animal registered breed association registration number, United States Department of Agriculture backtag (when applied serially, only the beginning and the ending numbers need be recorded), or similar individual identification. If the document is prepared at a quarantined feedlot, it shall be prepared by an accredited veterinarian, a State representative, or an individual designated for that purpose by the State animal health official. If the document is prepared at any other point of origin, it shall be prepared by an accredited veterinarian, State representative, or APHIS representative. (A new "S" brand permit is required for each change in destination. However, "S" brand permits accompanying cattle or bison to approved intermediate handling facilities may list either the approved intermediate handling facility, a quarantined feedlot, or a recognized slaughtering establishment as the point of destination. If the "S" brand permit lists a quarantined feedlot or a recognized slaughtering establishment as the point of destination, the "S" brand permit must list the approved intermediate handling facility as a temporary stopping point, and no additional "S" brand permit is required for the subsequent movement of the cattle or bison from the approved intermediate handling facility to the quarantined feedlot or to the recognized slaughtering establishment. Subsequent movements from the quarantined feedlot shall be subject to requirements set forth in the definition of "quarantined feedlot" in this section.)
