
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 78 - BRUCELLOSIS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 78.1 Definitions.
####### Validation.

(1)A swine herd may be validated as brucellosis-free if it has been found brucellosis negative after either a complete-herd test (CHT) or an incremental CHT. The incremental CHT may be conducted by testing all breeding swine 6 months of age or older with negative results within 365 days, either in four 25-percent increments, with those tests being conducted on the 90th, 180th, 270th, and 360th days of the testing cycle, or in 10-percent increments every 25-35 days until 100 percent of those swine have been tested. In cases where unforeseen circumstances warrant such action, the Administrator may approve an extension of up to 15 days of the date on which a test under the 25-percent incremental herd test is to be conducted, thus allowing a test to be conducted no later than the 105th, 195th, 285th, or 375th day of the testing cycle. No swine may be tested twice during the testing cycle to comply with either the 25 percent requirement or the 10 percent requirement. No further testing is required once 100 percent of the breeding swine have been tested. After all breeding swine have tested brucellosis negative, a herd may be validated as brucellosis-free. Unless the Administrator has approved an alternative testing schedule, which might extend the testing cycle, a herd retains validated brucellosis-free status for a maximum of 365 days.
