
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 79 - SCRAPIE IN SHEEP AND GOATS
##### ยง 79.3 General restrictions.

The following prohibitions and movement conditions apply to the movement of or commingling with sheep and goats in interstate commerce, and no sheep or goat may be sold, disposed of, acquired, exhibited, transported, received for transportation, offered for sale or transportation, loaded, unloaded, or otherwise handled in interstate commerce, or commingled with such animals, or be loaded or unloaded at a premises or animal concentration point (including premises that exhibit animals) where animals are received that have been in interstate commerce or from which animals are moved in interstate commerce except in compliance with this part.

(a) No sexually intact animal of any age or castrated animal 18 months of age and older (as evidenced by the eruption of the second incisor) may be moved or commingled with animals in interstate commerce unless it is individually identified to its flock of birthand is accompanied by an ICVI, except that an ICVI is not required unless the animal is moved across a State line, and except for the following, which may move with group lot identification and an owner/hauler statement:

(1) Animals in slaughter channels that are under 18 months of age (as evidenced by the eruption of the second incisor);

(2) Animals in slaughter channels at 18 months and older (as evidenced by the eruption of the second incisor) if the animals were kept as a group on the same premises on which they were born and have not been maintained in the same enclosure with unidentified animals from another flock at any time, including throughout the feeding, marketing, and slaughter process;

(3) An owner/hauler statement may be used instead of an ICVI for mixed source animals in slaughter channels 18 months of age and older (as evidenced by the eruption of the second incisor) that are identified with official individual identification or in the case of animals from flocks that are low-risk commercial flocks that are identified using identification methods or devices approved for this purpose;

(4) Animals moving for grazing or other management purposes between two premises both owned or leased by the flock owner and recorded in the National Scrapie Database as additional flock premises and where commingling will not occur with unidentified animals that were born in another flock or any animal that is not part of the flock. A request to APHIS to enter additional flock premises in the National Scrapie Database is required before animals are first moved to the premises. Notification is not required for each subsequent movement of animals to that premises. Neither group lot ID nor an owner/hauler statement is required for movements of a flock or its members for flock management purposes within a contiguous premises spanning two or more States. This provision does not include the transiting or sale of animals through such a premises in circumvention of the other requirements of this part; and

(5) Animals moving to a livestock facility approved in accordance with ยง 71.20 of this subchapter and that has agreed to act as an agent for the owner to apply official identification if the animals have been in the same flock in which they were born and have not been maintained in the same enclosure with unidentified animals born in another flock at any time. Such facilities may identify animals after sale if the facility maintains unidentified animals from different flocks of origin or when required birth in separate enclosures until officially identified.

(b) No scrapie-positive or suspect animal may be moved other than by permit to an APHIS approved research or quarantine facility or for destruction under APHIS or State supervision. Such animals must be individually identified and listed on the permit.

(c) No indemnified high-risk animal or indemnified sexually intact genetically susceptible exposed animal may be moved other than by permit to an APHIS approved research or quarantine facility or for destruction at another site. Such animals that are not indemnified and are not scrapie-positive or suspect animals may be moved to slaughter under permit. Animals moved in accordance with this paragraph must be individually identified and listed on the permit.

(d) No exposed animal may be moved unless it is officially individually identified.

(e) No animal may be moved from an infected flock or source flock except as allowed by an approved flock plan.

(f) No animal may be moved from an exposed flock, a flock under investigation or a flock subject to a PEMMP except as allowed in a PEMMP or where a PEMMP is not required, as allowed by written instructions from an APHIS or State representative.

(g) Animals moved to slaughter:

(1) Once an animal enters slaughter channels the animal may not be removed from slaughter channels. An animal is in slaughter channels if it was sold through a restricted animal sale, resided in a terminal feedlot, was sold with a bill of sale marked for slaughter only, was identified with an identification device or tattoo marked "Slaughter Only" or "MEAT" or was moved in a manner not permitted for other classes of animals. Animals in slaughter channels may move either directly to a slaughter establishment that is under Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) jurisdiction per the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) or under State inspection that FSIS has recognized as at least equal to Federal inspection or to a custom exempt slaughter establishment as defined by FSIS (9 CFR 303.1) for immediate slaughter or to an individual for immediate slaughter for personal use or to a terminal feedlot, or may move indirectly to such a destination through a restricted animal sale or restricted livestock facility. Once an animal has entered slaughter channels it may only be officially identified with an official blue eartag marked with the words "Meat" or "Slaughter Only" or an ear tattoo reading "Meat." Animals in slaughter channels must be accompanied by an owner/hauler statement. The statement must also include the name and address of the person or livestock facility from which and where they were acquired, if different from the owner; the slaughter establishment, restricted animal sale, restricted livestock facility or terminal feedlot to which they are being moved, and a statement that the animals are in slaughter channels. A copy of the owner/hauler statement must be provided to the slaughter establishment, restricted animal sale, restricted livestock facility or terminal feedlot to which the animals are moved. Any bill of sale regarding the animals must indicate that the animals were sold for slaughter only.

(2) Animals that were in slaughter channels before arriving at a sale and animals that cannot meet the ID and ICVI requirements for unrestricted movement prior to leaving a sale may not be sold at an unrestricted sale. This does not preclude animals sold at an unrestricted sale from being moved in slaughter channels after sale if identified as required for animals in slaughter channels.

(3) Animals in slaughter channels may not be held in the same enclosure with sexually intact animals from another flock of origin that are not in slaughter channels.

(h) No animals designated for testing as part of a classification or reclassification investigation may be moved until testing is completed and results reported, except for movement by permit for testing, slaughter, research, or destruction. Such animals must be individually identified and listed on the permit.

(i) The following animals, if not restricted as part of a flock plan or PEMMP, may be moved to any destination without further restriction after being officially identified and designated or redesignated by a DSE to be:

(1) Genetically resistant exposed sheep;

(2) Genetically less susceptible exposed sheep; or

(3) Low-risk exposed animals.

(j) Animals moved from Inconsistent States must meet the following requirements in addition to other requirements of this section.

(1) Sheep and goats not in slaughter channels must be enrolled in the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program or an equivalent APHIS recognized program or be sheep that are officially genotyped and determined to be AA QR or AA RR, be officially identified, and be accompanied by an ICVI that also states the individual animal identification numbers, the flock of origin, and the flock of birth, if different.

(2) Animals in slaughter channels must be officially identified with an official blue eartag marked with the words "Meat" or "Slaughter Only" and may move only directly to slaughter or to a terminal feedlot. Animals 18 months of age and older (as evidenced by the eruption of the second incisor) in slaughter channels must also be accompanied by an ICVI that states the individual animal identification numbers, and the flock of birth (and the flock of origin, if different).
