
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 82 - NEWCASTLE DISEASE AND CHLAMYDIOSIS
##### Subpart A - Newcastle Disease
###### ยง 82.14 Removal of quarantine.

An area will be removed from quarantine only when all of the following requirements have been met:

(a) All birds and poultry exposed to Newcastle disease in the quarantined area have been found to be free of Newcastle disease;

(b) All birds and poultry infected with Newcastle disease in the quarantined area have been euthanized;

(c) All birds and poultry, including any parts of the birds and poultry, euthanized in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, and all birds and poultry in the quarantined area, including any parts of the birds and poultry, that died from any cause other than slaughter, have been buried, reduced to ashes by incineration, rendered, or reduced to dust by composting:

(1) If the birds and poultry are buried, all birds and poultry infected with Newcastle disease must be buried in the quarantined area. The birds and poultry must be buried in a location that meets all United States Environmental Protection Agency, State, and local requirements for landfills. They must be buried at least 6 feet deep and be covered at the time of burial with soil; and

(2) If the birds and poultry are composted, all birds and poultry infected with Newcastle disease must be composted in the quarantined area. The birds and poultry must be composted according to the following instructions or according to another procedure approved by the Administrator as being adequate to prevent the dissemination of Newcastle disease:

(i) Place a 1-foot layer of litter and manure in a free-standing composter bin, unless the compost pile will be covered in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. Add a 6-inch layer of straw, peanut hulls, or wood chips. Add a layer of dead birds or dead poultry, leaving 6 inches between the carcasses and the bin walls. Add water sparingly and cover with 6 inches of a dry mixture of litter and manure. Repeat the layering process two more times and cap with a double layer of dry manure cake. After the bin is capped off and covered, monitor the temperature in the compost pile daily, using a 36-inch probe-type thermometer. The temperature of the compost pile must reach at least 140 &#xB0;F. After 30 days from the date the compost pile is created, turn over to aerate the entire mixture. Allow mixture to reach at least 140 &#xB0;F once again. After completion of the second cycle, the mixture must remain covered with any material that prevents penetration of air and moisture until spread or otherwise utilized. The composted material may not be spread or otherwise utilized until at least 30 days following completion of the second heating cycle.

(ii) Composting of birds and poultry may be accomplished outside of covered bins by following the layering and temperature requirements set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, then covering the compost pile with tarpaulins or 6-mm polyethylene sheets anchored with tires or straw bales. The mixture must be kept moist. The final product may not be spread or otherwise utilized until at least 30 days following completion of the second heating cycle.

(iii) Composting of birds and poultry must be carried out at least 50 yards from any building or pen where poultry and birds are housed and be inaccessible to birds and poultry. Composted material may not be commingled with, or otherwise be brought into contact with, non-composted manure cake;

(d) All eggs produced by birds or poultry infected with or exposed to Newcastle disease in the quarantined area have been buried, reduced to ashes by incineration, or rendered. If the eggs are buried, the eggs must be buried in the quarantined area in a location that meets all United States Environmental Protection Agency requirements and all State and local requirements for landfills. The eggs must be buried at least 6 feet deep and be covered at the time of burial with soil;

(e) All manure generated by or litter used by birds or poultry infected with or exposed to Newcastle disease in the quarantined area has been reduced to ashes by incineration, or has been buried, composted, or spread on a field and turned under, as follows:
