
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 82 - NEWCASTLE DISEASE AND CHLAMYDIOSIS
##### Subpart A - Newcastle Disease
###### ยง 82.14 Removal of quarantine.
####### Composting.

(2)If the manure and litter is composted, the manure and litter must be composted in the quarantined area. The manure and litter must be composted according to the following method, or according to another procedure approved by the Administrator as being adequate to prevent the dissemination of Newcastle disease: Place the manure and litter in rows 3 to 5 feet high and 5 to 10 feet at the base. The area where the manure, litter, and other material used in composting are placed must be such that there is no runoff from the composted material out of the area, no saturation into the ground, and no moisture, except for that required by this paragraph, onto the composted material from above. The composting area must be at least 50 yards from any building or pen where birds or poultry are housed and be inaccessible to birds and poultry. The manure and litter must be mixed so as to attain a carbon to nitrogen ratio of approximately 30:1, a moisture content of between 40 to 50 percent, and a supply of oxygen to the composted material. If a carbon source other than manure or litter is needed, wood chips, straw, or peanut hulls may be used. The manure and litter must be covered with tarpaulin or 6-mm polyethylene sheets, be anchored with tires or straw bales, and be mixed to ensure adequate ventilation every 10 to 15 days. The composted material must rise to a temperature of 140 &#xB0;F, as determined by use of a 36-inch probe-type thermometer. The composted material may not be spread or otherwise utilized for at least 30 days from the time the 140 &#xB0;F temperature is reached; and
