
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 82 - NEWCASTLE DISEASE AND CHLAMYDIOSIS
##### Subpart A - Newcastle Disease
###### ยง 82.14 Removal of quarantine.
####### Spreading and turning under.

(3)Spreading and turning under of manure or litter may be used as a means of disposal only if carried out under the direct supervision of a Federal representative or a State representative. If the manure or litter is spread on a field and turned under, the field must be in the quarantined area, at least 50 yards away from any building or pen where poultry or birds are housed, and inaccessible to birds and poultry. The manure or litter must be turned under within 24 hours of being spread on the field, and the field must be left undisturbed for at least 30 days;

(f) All vehicles with which the birds or poultry infected with or exposed to Newcastle disease or their excrement or litter have had physical contact have been cleaned and disinfected in accordance with part 71 of this chapter. The vehicles have been inspected after cleaning, and before disinfection, by a Federal representative or State representative, and then have been disinfected in the presence of a Federal representative or State representative with a disinfectant listed in part 71 of this chapter;

(g) All cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment used for birds or poultry infected with or exposed to Newcastle disease, or their excrement or litter have been reduced to ashes by incineration, or have been cleaned and disinfected in accordance with part 71 of this chapter. The items must be inspected after cleaning, and before disinfection, by a Federal representative or State representative, and then must be disinfected in the presence of a Federal representative or State representative, with a disinfectant listed in part 71 of this chapter; and

(h) The premises where birds or poultry infected with or exposed to Newcastle disease were located have been cleaned and disinfected in accordance with part 71 of this chapter. The premises have been inspected after cleaning, and before disinfection, by a Federal representative or State representative, and then have been disinfected in the presence of a Federal representative or State representative with a disinfectant listed in part 71 of this chapter.

(i) After the other conditions of this section are fulfilled, an area will not be released from quarantine until followup surveillance over a period of time determined by the Administrator indicates Newcastle disease is not present in the quarantined area.
