
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 82 - NEWCASTLE DISEASE AND CHLAMYDIOSIS
##### Subpart B - Chlamydiosis in Poultry
###### ยง 82.24 Other interstate movements and special permits.

(a) A special permit is required for the interstate movement of items whose movement interstate is restricted under this subpart in a manner or to a destination other than is specifically prescribed by this subpart. A special permit is required for the disinfection of vehicles, premises, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment by a method other than is specifically prescribed by this subpart. To apply for a special permit, contact the veterinarian in charge for the State in which the items are located. The Administrator may, at his or her discretion, issue special permits if he or she determines the activity authorized will not increase the risk of spreading chlamydiosis interstate.

(b) The special permit will list the name and address of the person to whom the special permit is issued, and the special conditions under which the interstate movement, or cleaning and disinfection, may be carried out.

(1) For an interstate movement, the special permit will also include the following:

(i) The name and mailing address of the person who will receive the items;

(ii) The addresses of both the origin and destination of the items;

(iii) The number and type of items to be moved interstate; and

(iv) The reason for the interstate movement.

(2) For cleaning and disinfection, the special permit will also include the following:

(i) The address of the place where the items are located; and

(ii) The number and type of items involved.

(c) For an interstate movement, a copy of the special permit must accompany the items moved, and copies must be submitted so that a copy is received by both the State animal health official and the veterinarian in charge for the State of destination within 72 hours of the arrival of the items at the destination listed on the special permit.
