
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 85 - PSEUDORABIES
##### ยง 85.1 Definitions.
###### Known infected herd.

Any herd in which any livestock has been determined to be infected with pseudorabies by an official pseudorabies test, an approved differential pseudorabies test, or diagnosed by an official pseudorabies epidemiologist as having pseudorabies.

(a) A herd of livestock, other than swine, shall no longer be classified as a known infected herd after 10 days since the last clinical case of pseudorabies in the herd.

(b) A herd of swine which has been released from pseudorabies quarantine in accordance with the following provisions shall no longer be classified as a known infected herd if:

(1) All swine positive to an official pseudorabies test have been removed from the premises; all swine which remain in the herd, except swine nursing from their mothers, are subjected to an official pseudorabies serologic test and found negative 30 days or more after removal of swine positive to an official pseudorabies test; and no livestock on the premises have shown clinical signs of pseudorabies after removal of the positive swine; or

(2) All swine have been depopulated for 30 days and the herd premises have been cleaned and disinfected in accordance with ยง 85.13; or

(3) In a herd of swine in which swine are positive to an official pseudorabies serologic test but no swine are positive at titers greater than 1:8, all titered swine are subjected to another official pseudorabies serologic test and found negative; and all other swine in the herd which an epidemiologist, approved by the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in Charge, requires to be subjected to an official pseudorabies serologic test are tested and found negative.

(4) In a herd of swine containing official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccinates:

(i) All vaccinates have been vaccinated with the same official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine; and

(ii) All swine positive to an approved differential pseudorabies test have been gone from the herd for at least 60 days; and

(iii) No livestock on the same premises as the herd have shown clinical signs of pseudorabies since removal of the positive swine; and

(iv) The herd has been tested for pseudorabies and found negative in accordance with one of the following two provisions:

(A) All swine in the herd, except suckling swine, are tested with an approved differential pseudorabies test. If all tested swine are found negative, no further testing is required. If any swine test positive, they may be retested with an approved differential pseudorabies test within 30 days of the first test if they are isolated from the remainder of the herd until the retest shows them to be negative.

(B) All swine in the herd over 6 months of age and a random sample of 30 or more swine in each segregated group of swine in the herd between 2 and 6 months of age are tested with an approved differential pseudorabies test. Not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after this first test, another random sample of 30 or more swine in each segregated group of swine in the herd between 2 and 6 months of age is tested with an approved differential pseudorabies test. If all swine are negative on these tests, no further testing is required. If any swine test positive on either of these tests, the positive swine may be retested with an approved differential test within 30 days of the initial test if they are isolated from the remainder of the herd until the retest shows them to be negative.
