
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter C - Interstate Transportation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 85 - PSEUDORABIES
##### ยง 85.1 Definitions.
###### Qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd.

(a) Any herd in which no swine are known to be infected with or exposed to pseudorabies, and in which no swine are vaccinated for pseudorabies, may achieve status as a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd under the following conditions:

(1) All swine in the herd over 6 months of age must be tested with an official pseudorabies serologic test. For a minimum of 30 days before the test, the herd must not have been a known infected herd. During the 90 days before the test, at least 90 percent of the swine in the herd either must have been on the premises and a part of the herd, or must have entered the herd directly from a qualified pseudorabies negative herd. If any of the tested swine are found positive on this or any other official pseudorabies test prior to vaccination with the official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine, the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) must be met.

(2) All swine that are positive on an official pseudorabies test must be removed from the herd, or must be isolated until another official pseudorabies test conducted within 30 days of the first test shows them to be negative. If the results of the second test are negative, no additional testing is required before the herd may be vaccinated in accordance with paragraph (a)(3). If the results of the second test are positive, all swine that tested positive must be removed from the herd. Not less than 30 days after any positive swine are removed from the herd, all remaining swine in the herd, except suckling swine, must be tested with an official pseudorabies serologic test and found negative. Not less than 30 days after this negative test, the herd must be tested again in accordance with paragraph (a)(1).

(3) Not more than 30 days after test results show the herd to be negative for pseudorabies in accordance with paragraph (a)(1), all swine in the herd over 6 months of age must be vaccinated with an official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine. Only one official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine may be used in the herd.

(b) Any herd designated as a qualified pseudorabies negative herd may achieve new status as a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd if all swine in the herd over 6 months of age are vaccinated with an official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine. Only one official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine may be used in the herd.

(c) Any herd in which no swine are known to be infected with or exposed to pseudorabies, and in which the only swine vaccinated for pseudorabies are official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccinates, may achieve status as a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd under the following conditions:

(1) Only one official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine may be used in the herd.

(2) All swine in the herd over 6 months of age must be tested with an approved differential pseudorabies test. For a minimum of 60 days before the test, the herd must not have been a known infected herd. During the 90 days before the test, at least 90 percent of the swine in the herd either must have been on the premises and a part of the herd or must have entered the herd directly from a qualified pseudorabies negative herd or a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd. If any of the tested swine are found positive on this test, the requirements in paragraph (c)(3) must be met.

(3) All swine positive on an approved differential pseudorabies test must be removed from the herd, or must be isolated until another approved differential pseudorabies test conducted within 30 days of the first test shows them to be negative. If the results of the second test are negative, no additional testing is required before the herd may be vaccinated in accordance with paragraph (c)(4). If the results of the second test are positive, all swine that tested positive must be removed from the herd. No less than 30 days after any negative swine are removed from the herd, all remaining swine in the herd, except suckling swine, must be tested with an approved differential pseudorabies test and found negative. No less than 30 days after this negative test, the herd must be tested again in accordance with paragraph (c)(2).

(4) No more than 30 days after test results show the herd to be negative for pseudorabies in accordance with paragraph (c)(2), all swine in the herd over 6 months of age that are not already official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccinates must be vaccinated with an official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine. Only one official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine may be used in the herd.

(d) Qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd status is maintained under the following conditions:

(1) All swine over 6 months of age in the herd must be official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccinates, and only one official gene-altered pseudorabies vaccine may be used in the herd.

(2) All swine over 6 months of age in the herd must be tested at least once a year with an approved differential pseudorabies test and found negative; except that, if any swine are positive, the herd may maintain its status if the positive swine are isolated from the rest of the herd until they are found negative to a second approved differential pseudorabies test conducted within 30 days of the first. The requirement for annual testing of all swine in the herd over 6 months of age may be met by testing 25 percent of the swine over 6 months of age every 80-105 days, or by testing 10 percent of the swine over 6 months of age each month. No swine may be tested twice in 1 year to comply with the 25 percent requirement, or twice in 10 months to comply with the 10 percent requirement.

(3) Swine may be added to a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd only under one of the following conditions:

(i) The swine are moved to the qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd from another qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd, or from a qualified pseudorabies negative herd, without having any contact en route with swine other than those from a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd or a qualified pseudorabies negative herd.

(ii) The swine are moved to the qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd from a qualified pseudorabies negative herd, have contact en route with swine other than those from a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd or a qualified pseudorabies negative herd, and, before being added, are isolated until they are found negative to an official pseudorabies serologic test conducted 30 days or more after the swine are isolated.

(iii) The swine are moved to the qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd from another qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd, have contact en route with swine other than those from a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd or a qualified pseudorabies negative herd, and, before being added, are isolated until they are found negative to an approved differential pseudorabies test conducted 30 days or more after the swine are isolated.

(iv) The swine are removed to the qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd from a herd other than a qualified negative gene-altered vaccinated herd or a qualified pseudorabies negative herd, and, before being added, are isolated until they are found negative to two official pseudorabies serologic tests, one conducted at the time the swine are isolated, and the second conducted 30 days or more after the swine are isolated.
