
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 93 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS, BIRDS, FISH, AND POULTRY, AND CERTAIN ANIMAL, BIRD, AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS FOR MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS
##### Subpart A - Birds
###### § 93.105 Inspection at the port of entry.

(a) All commercial birds, zoological birds, and research birds, including hatching eggs of ratites, but excluding other ratites, imported into the United States, must be inspected by the port veterinarian at the Customs port of entry, which may be any international airport, or any land-border port within 20 miles of an international airport, serviced by Customs, as well as, for Canadian-origin hatching eggs of ratites, ports listed in § 93.107 (c). However, hatching eggs of ratites may be shipped, in bond, from the port of first arrival to the Customs port of entry at which they will be quarantined, for inspection, at that port.

(b) All pet birds imported from any part of the world, except pet birds from Canada and pet birds meeting the provisions of § 93.101(c)(2), shall be subjected to inspection at the Customs port of entry by a veterinary inspector of APHIS and such birds shall be permitted entry only at the ports listed in § 93.102(a). Pet birds of Canadian origin and those birds meeting the provisions of § 93.101(c)(2) shall be subject to veterinary inspection at any of the ports of entry listed in § 93.102 and 93.203.

(c) Ratites, other than hatching eggs of ratites, imported from any part of the world must be inspected at the Customs port of entry by a veterinary inspector of APHIS and, except as provided in § 93.107(b) for ratites imported from Canada, shall be permitted entry only at one of the following ports of entry:

(1) Ostriches:

(i) Up to 36 inches in height (as measured from the top of the head to the base of the feet) or 30 pounds in weight: New York, NY; Stewart Airport, Newburgh, NY; and Miami, FL.

(ii) Exceeding 36 inches in height or 30 pounds in weight: New York, NY, and Stewart Airport, Newburgh, NY.

(2) Ratites other than ostriches: New York, NY; Stewart Airport, Newburgh, NY; and Miami, FL.
