
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 93 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS, BIRDS, FISH, AND POULTRY, AND CERTAIN ANIMAL, BIRD, AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS FOR MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS
##### Subpart C - Horses
###### ยง 93.301 General prohibitions; exceptions.
####### Testing and treatment requirements for stallions.

(3)(i) Once the stallion is in the approved State, one specimen each shall be taken from the prepuce, the urethral sinus, the distal urethra, and the fossa glandis, including the diverticulum of the fossa glandis, of the stallion and be cultured for CEM. After negative results have been obtained, the stallion must be test bred to two test mares that meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section. Upon completion of the test breeding:

(A) The stallion must be treated for 5 consecutive days by thoroughly cleaning and washing (scrubbing) its prepuce, penis, including the fossa glandis, and urethral sinus while the stallion is in full erection with a solution of not less than 2 percent surgical scrub chlorhexidine and then thoroughly coating (packing) the stallion's prepuce, penis, including the fossa glandis, and urethral sinus with an ointment effective against the CEM organism.The treatment shall be performed by an accredited veterinarian and monitored by a State or Federal veterinarian.

(B) Each mare to which the stallion has been test bred shall be cultured for CEM from three sets of specimens from the mucosal surfaces of the clitoral fossa and clitoral sinuses, with one set of specimens including a specimen from either the distal cervix or endometrium, between the third and fourteenth day after breeding, with negative results. The sets of specimens must be collected on three separate occasions within a 12-day period with no less than 72 hours between each set. A complement fixation test for CEM must be done with negative results between the twenty-first and twenty-eighth day after the breeding.

(ii) If any culture or test required by this paragraph is positive for CEM, the stallion shall be treated as described in paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section and retested by being test bred to two mares no less than 21 days after the last day of treatment.

(iii) A stallion may be released from State quarantine only if all cultures and tests of specimens from the mares used for test breeding are negative for CEM and all cultures performed on specimens taken from the stallion are negative for CEM.
