
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 93 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS, BIRDS, FISH, AND POULTRY, AND CERTAIN ANIMAL, BIRD, AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS FOR MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS
##### Subpart C - Horses
###### ยง 93.301 General prohibitions; exceptions.
####### Requirements for test mares.

(4)(i) Mares to be used to test stallions for CEM shall be permanently identified before the mares are used for such testing with the letter "T." The marking shall be permanently applied by an inspector, a State inspector, or an accredited veterinarian who shall use a hot iron, freezemarking, or a lip tattoo. If a hot iron or freezemarking is used, the marking shall not be less than 2 inches (5.08 cm) high and shall be applied to the left shoulder or left side of the neck of the mare. If a lip tattoo is used, the marking shall not be less than 1 inch (2.54 cm) high and 0.75 inch (1.9 cm) wide and shall be applied to the inside surface of the upper lip of the test mare.

(ii) The test mares must be qualified prior to breeding as apparently free from CEM and may not be used for breeding from the time specimens are taken to qualify the mares as free from CEM. To qualify, each mare shall be tested with negative results by a complement fixation test for CEM, and specimens taken from each mare shall be cultured negative for CEM. Sets of specimens shall be collected on three separate occasions from the mucosal surfaces of the clitoral fossa and the clitoral sinuses, with one set of specimens including a specimen from either the distal cervix or endometrium, within a 12-day period with no less than 72 hours between each set.

(iii) A test mare that has been used to test stallions for CEM may be released from quarantine only if:

(A) The test mare is found negative for CEM on all cultures and tests required under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section; or

(B) The test mare is subjected to an ovariectomy by an accredited veterinarian under the direct supervision of a State or Federal veterinarian; or

(C) The test mare is treated and handled in accordance with paragraph (e)(5) of this section; or

(D) The test mare is moved directly to slaughter without unloading en route, is euthanized, or dies.
