
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 93 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS, BIRDS, FISH, AND POULTRY, AND CERTAIN ANIMAL, BIRD, AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS FOR MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS
##### Subpart C - Horses
###### ยง 93.301 General prohibitions; exceptions.
####### Testing and treatment requirements for mares.

(5)(i) Once the mare is in the approved State, a complement fixation test for CEM must be done, and three sets of specimens shall be collected from the mucosal surfaces of the clitoral fossa and clitoral sinuses, with one set of specimens including a specimen from the surfaces of the distal cervix or endometrium in nonpregnant mares. The sets of specimens must be collected on three separate occasions within a 12-day period with no less than 72 hours between each set. An accredited veterinarian shall collect specimens and shall submit each set of specimens to the National Veterinary Services Laboratories in Ames, IA, or to a laboratory approved by the Administrator in accordance with ยง 71.22 of this chapter to conduct CEM cultures and tests.

(ii) After the three sets of specimens required by paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section have been collected, an accredited veterinarian shall manually remove organic debris from the sinuses of each mare and then flush the sinuses with a cerumalytic agent.

(iii) For 5 consecutive days after the sinuses have been cleaned, an accredited veterinarian shall aseptically clean and wash (scrub) the external genitalia and vaginal vestibule, including the clitoral fossa, with a solution of not less than 2 percent chlorhexidine in a detergent base and then fill the clitoral fossa and sinuses, and coat the external genitalia and vaginal vestibule with an antibiotic ointment effective against the CEM organism.

(iv) A mare may be released from State quarantine only if all cultures performed on specimens taken from the mare are negative for CEM.

(v) If any culture required by this paragraph is positive for CEM, the mare shall be treated as described in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii) and (e)(5)(iii) of this section. No less than 21 days after the last day of treatment, the mare shall be tested again in accordance with paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section. If all specimens are negative for CEM, the mare may be released from quarantine.
