
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 93 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS, BIRDS, FISH, AND POULTRY, AND CERTAIN ANIMAL, BIRD, AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS FOR MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS
##### Subpart C - Horses
###### ยง 93.301 General prohibitions; exceptions.
####### Approval of States.

(h)In order for a State to be approved to receive stallions or mares over 731 days of age from a CEM-affected region listed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section that are imported under paragraph (e) of this section, the State must meet the following conditions:

(1) The State must enter into a written agreement with the Administrator, whereby the State agrees to enforce its laws and regulations to control CEM and to abide by the conditions of approval established by the regulations in this part.

(2) The State must agree to quarantine all stallions and mares over 731 days of age imported under the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section until the stallions have been treated in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section and the mares have been treated in accordance with paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(3) The State must agree to quarantine all mares used to test stallions for CEM until the mares have been released from quarantine in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(4) The State must have laws or regulations requiring that stallions over 731 days of age imported under paragraph (e) of this section be treated in the manner specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, and that mares over 731 days of age imported under paragraph (e) of this section be treated in the manner specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(5) Approval of any State to receive stallions or mares imported from regions affected with CEM may be suspended by the Administrator upon his or her determination that any requirements of this section are not being met. After such action is taken, the animal health authorities of the approved State will be informed of the reasons for the action and afforded an opportunity to present their views thereon before such suspension is finalized; however, such suspension of approval shall continue in effect unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator. In those instances where there is a conflict as to the facts, a hearing shall be held to resolve such conflict.
