
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 93 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS, BIRDS, FISH, AND POULTRY, AND CERTAIN ANIMAL, BIRD, AND POULTRY PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS FOR MEANS OF CONVEYANCE AND SHIPPING CONTAINERS
##### Subpart G - Miscellaneous Animals
###### ยง 93.704 Import permit.
####### Application for an import permit.

(c)The importer must complete, sign, and date the application for an import permit, which must include the following information:

(1) The name and address of the shipper in the region of origin of the hedgehog or tenrec intended for importation into the United States.

(2) The name, address, and telephone number of the importer.

(3) The port of embarkation.

(4) The region from which the hedgehog or tenrec will be shipped to the United States.

(5) The mode of transportation.

(6) The number, breed, species, and descriptions of the hedgehogs or tenrecs to be imported.

(7) The purpose of the importation.

(8) The route of travel, including all carrier stops en route.

(9) The proposed shipping and arrival dates.

(10) The port of first arrival in the United States.

(11) The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the person to whom the hedgehog or tenrec will be delivered in the United States.

(12) The location of the place where delivery will be made in the United States.

(13) Any remarks regarding the shipment.
