
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.4 Cured or cooked meat from regions where foot-and-mouth disease exists.

(a) The importation of cured meats derived from ruminants or swine, originating in any region where foot-and-mouth disease exists, as designated in ยง 94.1, is prohibited unless the following conditions have been fulfilled:

(1) All bones shall have been completely removed in the region of origin.

(2) The meat shall have been held in an unfrozen, fresh condition for at least 3 days immediately following the slaughter of the animals from which it was derived.

(3)(i) The meat shall have been thoroughly cured and fully dried in such manner that it may be stored and handled without refrigeration, as in the case of salami and other summer sausages, tasajo, xarque, or jerked beef, bouillon cubes, dried beef, and Westphalia, Italian and similar type hams. The term "fully dried" as used in this paragraph means dried to the extent that the water-protein ratio in the wettest portion of the product does not exceed 2.25 to 1.

(ii) Laboratory analysis of samples to determine the water-protein ratios will not be made in the case of all shipments of cured and dried meats. However, in any case in which the inspector is uncertain whether the meat complies with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, he will send a sample of the meat representative of the wettest portion to the Meat Inspection Division for analysis of the water-protein ratio. Pending such analysis the meat shall not be released or removed from the port of arrival.

(4) The cured meat shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by an official of the national government of the region of origin who is authorized to issue the foreign meat inspection certificate required by ยง 327.4 of this title, stating that such meat has been prepared in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3)(i) of this section. Upon arrival of the cured meat in the United States, the certificate must be presented to an authorized inspector at the port of arrival.

(b) The importation of cooked meats from ruminants or swine originating in any region where foot-and-mouth disease exists, as designated in ยง 94.1, is prohibited, except as provided in this section.

(1) The cooked meat must be boneless and must be thoroughly cooked.
