
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.4 Cured or cooked meat from regions where foot-and-mouth disease exists.
###### Further processing of meat cooked in tubes.

(6)Cubes of meat, slices of meat, or anatomical cuts of meat (cuts taken from the skeletal muscle tissue) cooked in tubes in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section may be processed further after cooking if the following provisions are met:

(i) For meat that is cooked and is intended for further processing, up to two tubes from each batch per cooker must be randomly selected by the official of the National Government of the region of origin who is authorized to issue the meat inspection certificate required by ยง 327.4 of this title. If a TID is not used, a cylindrical or square piece of at least 3.8 cm (1.5 in) in each dimension must be cut from the cold spot of each tube. The cylindrical or square piece will be the indicator piece for the pink juice test. The indicator piece or piece containing the TID must be sealed in plastic or other material approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and be accompanied by a certificate issued by the official who selected the tube. The certificate must provide the date the tube was cooked and the cooker and batch number, and the date the tube was selected for sampling. Each batch per cooker must have at least one but no more than two indicator pieces or pieces containing TID's. All indicator pieces and pieces containing TID's must be individually sealed, properly labeled, and enclosed together in one sealed box that accompanies the shipment. Any indicator pieces or pieces containing TID's that are not used to accompany a shipment to the United States must be destroyed following loading of the batch into a container; and

(ii) After removing the indicator piece or piece containing a TID, all remaining meat from the same batch may be cut into smaller cubes and sealed in plastic or other material approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. After being processed into smaller cubes once, the meat may not be further processed before shipment to the United States. The cubes of meat and the indicator piece or piece containing a TID must be accompanied to the United States by a certificate as provided in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.

(7) Any TID used in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5) of this section must remain in the meat, as originally inserted, and must accompany the cooked meat whose temperature it has gauged when that meat is shipped to the United States.
