
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.4 Cured or cooked meat from regions where foot-and-mouth disease exists.
###### Certificate.

(9)(i) The cooked meat must be accompanied by a certificate issued by an official of the National Government of the region of origin who is authorized to issue the foreign meat inspection certificate required under ยง 327.4 of this title, stating: "This cooked meat produced for export to the United States meets the requirements of title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, ยง 94.4(b)." Upon arrival of the cooked meat in the United States, the certificate must be presented to an authorized inspector at the port of arrival.

(ii) For cooked meat that is further processed in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the certificate must include the following statement, in addition to the certification required under paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section: "No more than two tubes were randomly selected per batch per cooker for cutting an indicator piece or obtaining a piece containing a TID. The indicator piece or piece containing a TID represents a shipment of (describe form of processed product-e.g., diced cubes of a particular size). A piece containing a TID or a piece 3.8 cm (1.5 in) or larger in each dimension was cut from the cold spot of the tube, and was sealed and marked with the following cooking date, cooker, and batch: __________ and the following date of selection of the tube__________. The total number of indicator pieces or pieces containing TID's enclosed in a sealed box is__________."

(10) The meat is inspected by an FSIS inspector at a port of arrival in a defrost facility approved by the Administratorand the meat is found to be thoroughly cooked.

(i) Request for approval of any defrost facility must be made to the Administrator. The Administrator will approve a defrost facility only under the following conditions:

(A) The defrost facility has equipment and procedures that permit FSIS inspectors to determine whether meat is thoroughly cooked;

(B) The defrost facility is located at a port of arrival; and

(C) The defrost facility is approved by the Food Safety and Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.

(ii) The Administrator may deny approval of any defrost facility if the Administrator determines that the defrost facility does not meet the conditions for approval. If approval is denied, the operator of the defrost facility will be informed of the reasons for denial and be given an opportunity to respond. The operator will be afforded an opportunity for a hearing with respect to any disputed issues of fact. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with rules of practice that will be adopted for the proceeding.

(iii) The Administrator may withdraw approval of any defrost facility as follows: (A) When the operator of the defrost facility notifies the Administrator in writing that the defrost facility no longer performs the required services; or (B) when the Administrator determines that the defrost facility does not meet the conditions for approval. Before the Administrator withdraws approval from any defrost facility, the operator of the defrost facility will be informed of the reasons for the proposed withdrawal and given an opportunity to respond. The operator will be afforded a hearing with respect to any disputed issues of fact. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with rules of practice that will be adopted for the proceeding. If approval of a defrost facility is withdrawn, the Administrator will remove its name from the list of approved defrost facilities.
