
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.6 Carcasses, meat, parts or products of carcasses, and eggs (other than hatching eggs) of poultry, game birds, or other birds; importations from regions where Newcastle disease or highly pathogenic avian influenza is considered to exist.
###### Shipment to the United States.

(iv)Poultry, game bird, or other bird carcasses or parts or products to be imported into the United States must be shipped from the region where they were processed in closed containers sealed with serially numbered seals applied by an official of the national government of that region. The shipments must be accompanied by a certificate signed by an official of the national government of the region where articles were processed that lists the numbers of the seals applied and states that all of the conditions of this section have been met. A copy of this certificate must be kept on file at the processing establishment for at least 2 years.

(6) Poultry, game bird, or other bird carcasses or parts or products that do not otherwise qualify for importation under paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section may be imported only if the importer applies to, and is granted a permit by, the Administrator, authorizing such importation. A permit will be given only when the Administrator determines that such importation will not constitute a risk of introduction or dissemination of Newcastle disease or HPAI into the United States. Application for a permit may be made in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
