
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.6 Carcasses, meat, parts or products of carcasses, and eggs (other than hatching eggs) of poultry, game birds, or other birds; importations from regions where Newcastle disease or highly pathogenic avian influenza is considered to exist.
###### With a certificate.

(1)The eggs may be imported if they are accompanied by a certificate signed by a salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin or, if exported from Mexico, accompanied either by such a certificate or by a certificate issued by a veterinarian accredited by the national government of Mexico and endorsed by a full-time salaried veterinary officer of the national government of Mexico, thereby representing that the veterinarian issuing the certificate was authorized to do so, and:

(i) The eggs are imported in cases marked with the identity of the flock of origin and sealed with the seal of the national government of the region of origin.

(ii) The certificate accompanying the eggs is presented to an authorized inspector when the eggs reach the port of arrival in the United States.

(iii) The certificate identifies the flock of origin and shows the region of origin, the port of embarkation, the port of arrival, the name and address of the exporter and importer, the total number of eggs, and cases of eggs, shipped with the certificate, and the date the certificate was signed.

(iv) The certificate states that the eggs qualify for importation in accordance with this section.

(v) The certificate states that no more than 90 days before the certificate was signed, a salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin or, if exported from Mexico, by a veterinarian accredited by the national government of Mexico, inspected the flock of origin and found no evidence of communicable diseases of poultry.

(vi) The eggs were washed, to remove foreign material from the surface of the shells, and sanitized on the premises of origin with a hypochlorite solution of from 100 ppm to 200 ppm available chlorine.

(vii) The eggs were packed on the premises of origin in previously unused cases.

(viii) Before leaving the premises of origin, the cases in which the eggs were packed were sealed with a seal of the national government of the region of origin by the salaried veterinarian of the national government of the region of origin who signed the certificate or, if exported from Mexico, by the veterinarian accredited by the national government of Mexico who signed the certificate.

(ix) In addition, if the eggs were laid in any region where Newcastle disease or HPAI is considered to exist (see paragraph (a) of this section), the certificate must also state:

(A) No Newcastle disease or HPAI occurred on the premises of origin or on adjoining premises during the 90 days before the certificate was signed.

(B) There is no evidence that the flock of origin was exposed to Newcastle disease or HPAI during the 90 days before the certificate was signed.

(C) The eggs are from a region free of HPAI, or from a flock of origin found free of Newcastle disease as follows: On the seventh and fourteenth days of the 21-day period before the certificate is signed, at least 1 cull bird (a sick or dead bird, not a healthy bird that was killed) for each 10,000 live birds occupying each poultry house certified for exporting table eggs was tested for Newcastle disease virus using embryonated egg inoculation technique. The weekly cull rate of birds of every exporting poultry house within the exporting farm does not exceed 0.1 percent. The tests present no clinical or immunological evidence of Newcastle disease by embryonated egg inoculation technique from tissues of birds that were culled and have been collected by a salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin or by a veterinarian accredited by the national government of Mexico. All examinations and embryonated egg inoculation tests were conducted in a laboratory located in the region of origin, and the laboratory was approved to conduct the examinations and tests by the veterinary services organization of the national government of that region. All results were negative for Newcastle disease.

(D) Egg drop syndrome is notifiable in the region of origin and there have been no reports of egg drop syndrome in the flocks of origin of the eggs, or within a 50 kilometer radius of the flock of origin, for the 90 days prior to the issuance of the certificate.
