
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.8 Pork and pork products from regions where African swine fever exists or is reasonably believed to exist.
###### Two-step process.

(ii)The pork skins must be dry-cooked at a minimum of 260 &#xB0;C for approximately 210 minutes after which they must be cooked in hot oil (deep-fried) at a minimum of 104 &#xB0;C for an additional 150 minutes.

(5) The processing establishmentin a region listed in this section must comply with the following requirements:

(i) All areas, utensils, and equipment likely to contact the pork or pork products to be processed, including skinning, deboning, cutting, and packing areas, and related utensils and equipment, must be cleaned and disinfected after processing pork or pork products not eligible for export to the United States and before processing any pork or pork products eligible for export to the United States.

(ii) Pork or pork products eligible for export to the United States may not be handled, cut, or otherwise processed at the same time as any pork or pork products not eligible for export to the United States.

(iii) Pork or pork products eligible for export to the United States must be packed in clean new packaging that is clearly distinguishable from that containing any pork or pork products not eligible for export to the United States.

(c) Pork or pork products consigned from the port of arrival to an approved establishment under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be moved from the port of arrival to the approved establishment under Customs seals or seals of the Administrator, and shall be otherwise handled as the Administrator, may direct in order to guard against the introduction and dissemination of the contagion of African swine fever. Seals applied under this section shall not be broken except by persons authorized to do so by the Administrator.

(d) Pork or pork products imported into the United States from a region listed in this section which do not meet the requirements specified in this section shall be seized, quarantined, and disposed of as the Administrator, may direct in order to guard against the introduction and dissemination of the contagion of the disease.
