
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.12 Pork and pork products from regions where swine vesicular disease exists.
###### Two-step process.

(B)The pork skins must be dry-cooked at a minimum of 260 &#xB0;C for approximately 210 minutes after which they must be cooked in hot oil (deep-fried) at a minimum of 104 &#xB0;C for an additional 150 minutes.

(2) Articles under paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section were prepared in an inspected establishment that is eligible to have its products imported into the United States under the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the regulations in ยง 327.2 in chapter III of this title.

(3) In addition to the foreign meat inspection certificate required in ยง 327.4 of this title, pork or pork products prepared under paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section shall be accompanied by certification that paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(iii)(A), or (b)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of this section has been met. The certification shall be issued by an official of the national government of the region of origin who is authorized to issue the foreign meat inspection certificate required by ยง 327.4 of this title.Upon arrival of the pork or pork products in the United States, the certificate must be presented to an authorized inspector at the port of arrival.

(4) Small amounts of pork or pork product subject to the restrictions of this section, may in specific cases be imported for purposes of examination, testing, or analysis, if the importer applies for and receives written approval for such importation from the Administrator, authorizing such importation. Approval will be granted only when the Administrator determines that the articles have been processed by heat in a manner so that such importation will not endanger the livestock of the United States.
