
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### § 94.12 Pork and pork products from regions where swine vesicular disease exists.
###### Requirements for pork-filled pasta products from regions affected with swine vesicular disease.

(c)(1) Pork-filled pasta products processed for export to the United States may only be filled with pork or pork products that are otherwise eligible to be exported to the United States and that meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), or (v) of this section or of § 94.17.

(2) The operator of the pork-filled pasta processing facility must have signed a cooperative service agreement with APHIS prior to receipt of the pork intended to be used in pork-filled pasta products, stating that all such pork will be processed only in accordance with § 94.12 or § 94.17. Pursuant to the cooperative service agreement, the establishment must allow the unannounced entry into the establishment of APHIS representatives, or other persons authorized by the Administrator, for the purpose of inspecting the facilities, operations, and records of the establishment. The establishment must be current in paying all costs for such inspections (it is anticipated that such inspections will occur up to four times per year). These costs include travel, salary, subsistence, administrative overhead, and other incidental expenses (including an excess baggage provision up to 150 pounds). In accordance with the terms of the cooperative service agreement, the operator of the processing establishment must deposit with the Administrator an amount equal to the approximate costs for APHIS to inspect the establishment one time, including travel, salary, subsistence, administrative overhead and other incidental expenses (including an excess baggage provision up to 150 pounds), and, as funds from that amount are obligated, bills for costs incurred based on official accounting records will be issued to restore the deposit to its original level. Amounts to restore the deposit to its original level must be paid within 14 days of receipt of such bills.

(3) At the pasta processing establishment, pork intended to be used for pork-filled pasta products for export to the United States must be stored apart from any meat or meat products not eligible for export to the United States, either in a separate storage room or facility or in a separate area of the same storage room. Any storage room area reserved for pork or pork products eligible for export to the United States must be separated by at least 1 meter from any storage room area where meat or meat products ineligible for export to the United States are stored and must be marked by signs and by having its borders outlined on the floor.

(4) Prior to handling pork used for pork-filled pasta products intended for export to the United States, workers at the processing facility who handle pork or pork products in the facility must shower and put on a full set of clean clothes, or wait 24 hours after handling pork or pork products that are not eligible for importation into the United States.

(5) All equipment and machinery that will come in contact with the pork or other ingredients of pork-filled pasta products intended for export to the United States must be cleaned and disinfected before each use.

(6) Processing lines working with pork-filled pasta products for export to the United States must be totally dedicated to the production of such products for the time needed to complete a given lot. When any processing line in a facility is working with pork-filled pasta products intended for export to the United States, no other processing lines in the same facility may work on products using meat that is not eligible for export to the United States.

(7) Processing facilities that are completely dedicated to producing only pork-filled pasta products for export to the United States and do not receive, handle, or process any animal product not intended for export to the United States are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(6) of this section.

(8) During processing, the pork-filled pasta must be steam-heated to a minimum internal temperature of 90 &#xB0;C, then dried, cooled, and packed to make the product shelf stable without refrigeration.

(9) The processing facility must maintain under lock and key, for a minimum of 2 years, an original record of each lot of pork or pork products used for pork-filled pasta products for export to the United States. Each record must include the following:

(i) The date that the cooked or dry-cured pork product was received in the processing facility;

(ii) The number of packages, the number of hams or cooked pork products per package, and the weight of each package;

(iii) A lot number or other identification marks;

(iv) The health certificate that accompanied the cooked or dry-cured pork product from the slaughter/processing facility to the meat-filled pasta product processing facility; and

(v) The date that the pork or pork product used in the pasta started dry curing (if the product used is a dry-cured ham) or the date that the product was cooked (if the product used is a cooked pork product).

(10) The pork-filled pasta must be accompanied by a certificate issued by an official of the National Government of the region in which the pasta product is processed who is authorized to issue the foreign meat inspection certificate required under § 327.4 of this title, stating that the pork-filled pasta product has been processed in accordance with the requirements of this section.

Upon arrival of the pork-filled pasta in the United States, the certificate must be presented to an inspector at the port of arrival.
