
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 94 - FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, NEWCASTLE DISEASE, HIGHLY PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA, AFRICAN SWINE FEVER, CLASSICAL SWINE FEVER, SWINE VESICULAR DISEASE, AND BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED IMPORTATIONS
##### ยง 94.17 Dry-cured pork products from regions where foot-and-mouth disease, African swine fever, classical swine fever, or swine vesicular disease exists.
###### Iberian pork shoulders.

(4)Iberian pork shoulders were processed as follows (240-day minimum curing process):

(i) If the pork shoulder is received frozen, it was thawed at a room temperature of 12 &#xB0;C to 13 &#xB0;C (53.6 &#xB0;F to 55.4 &#xB0;F), with the relative humidity between 75 and 85 percent, for approximately 24 hours, until the internal temperature reached 3 &#xB0;C to 4 &#xB0;C (37.4 &#xB0;F to 39.2 &#xB0;F), at which point the blood vessels in the scapular region were massaged to remove any remaining blood.

(ii) The pork shoulder was covered in salt and placed in a chamber maintained at a temperature of 0 &#xB0;C to 4 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F to 39.2 &#xB0;F) with the relative humidity between 75 and 95 percent, for a period of no less than 0.65 days per kg and no more than 2 days per kg of the weight of the pork shoulder.

(iii) The pork shoulder was rinsed with water and/or brushed to remove any remaining surface salt.

(iv) The pork shoulder was placed in a chamber maintained at a temperature of 0 &#xB0;C to 6 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F to 42.8 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity of 70 to 95 percent for not less than 40 days and not more than 60 days.

(v) The pork shoulder was placed for curing in a chamber at a temperature of 6 &#xB0;C to 16 &#xB0;C (42.8 &#xB0;F to 60.8 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity of 60 to 80 percent for a minimum of 90 days.

(vi) The temperature was raised to 16 &#xB0;C to 26 &#xB0;C (60.8 &#xB0;F to 78.8 &#xB0;F) and the relative humidity was changed to 55 to 85 percent, and those levels were maintained for a minimum of 90 days.

(vii) Finally, the temperature was reduced to 12 &#xB0;C to 22 &#xB0;C (53.6 &#xB0;F to 71.6 &#xB0;F) and the relative humidity was raised to 60 to 90 percent for a minimum of 45 days, until at least 240 days after the start of the curing process.
