
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 98 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMAL EMBRYOS AND ANIMAL SEMEN
##### Subpart B - Ruminant and Swine Embryos From Regions Where Foot-and-Mouth Disease Exists
###### ยง 98.17 Procedures.
####### Collection and processing of embryos.

(f)(1) If embryos are collected in an outdoor area, they must be collected by using a closed collection system so that the embryos are not exposed to open air until they are inside the embryo processing room.

(2) Embryos from donors that do not meet the requirements of ยง 98.15 of this subpart that are applicable at the time of embryo collection may not be in the processing room at the same time as embryos intended for importation into the United States.

(3) Each embryo must be washed at least 10 times. Each wash must be accomplished by transferring the embryo into an aliquot of fresh medium that is 100 times the volume of the embryo plus any fluid transferred from the previous wash. No more than 10 embryos from the same flush may be washed together. A sterile micropipette must be used for each transfer, and the embryos must be well agitated throughout the entire volume of the wash before the next transfer. Embryos from different donors may not be washed together.

(4) After the last wash, each embryo must be microscopically examined over its entire surface at not less than 50 x magnification. An embryo may not be imported into the United States unless its zona pellucida is found to be intact and free from any adherent material.

(5) After washing and examination of the zona pellucida, embryos must be individually packaged in sterile ampules or straws and frozen in liquid nitrogen. The donor dam's and sire's identifications and breed, the date of embryo collection, the name and address of the place where the embryos were collected, and an identification number for the straw or ampule must be recorded with indelible markings on each ampule or straw. If any of this information is provided in code, deciphering information must be attached to the health certificate for the embryos.

(6) The Administrator may require additional measures to be taken in processing embryos after collection (for example, adding trypsin to the washes) if he or she determines that such measures are necessary to ensure the embryos freedom from infectious agents that may cause communicable diseases. Circumstances that may result in such additional measures being required include, but are not limited to:

(i) The existence of communicable diseases of livestock, other than those diseases specifically listed, in the region of origin; and

(ii) A high prevalence or an increase in the incidence of a communicable disease in the region of origin.
