
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 98 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMAL EMBRYOS AND ANIMAL SEMEN
##### Subpart C - Certain Animal Semen
###### ยง 98.34 Import permits for poultry semen and animal semen.
####### Porcine semen from the People's Republic of China.

(7)In addition to the other requirements of this part, porcine semen may be imported into the United States from the People's Republic of China (PRC) only after the official veterinary organization (OVO) of the PRC has certified that the PRC is free of African swine fever, and Teschen's disease, and after the following conditions have been fulfilled:

(i) The donor boars must pass a 60-day isolation/collection period in a facility jointly approved by the OVO of the PRC and the USDA as adequate to prevent exposure of the donor boars to infectious diseases. Any other swine at the isolation facility, such as teaser animals, must also meet the requirements of this paragraph. No animals may be added to the group after the start of the 60-day isolation/collection period. The Department will permit collection of semen to be initiated at the beginning of the isolation/collection period. The facility shall be cleaned and disinfected with a 4 percent sodium carbonate solution used in accordance with applicable label instructions in the presence of OVO quarantine personnel prior to the start of the isolation. During the isolation/collection period, personnel handling the animals shall not have contact with other domestic farm livestock (this term does not include pets such as dogs and cats). Raw animal food wastes (garbage) shall not be fed to the donor boars while in isolation. At the start of the isolation/collection period, and again after 14 days of isolation, all animals offered for collection of semen must be given an intramuscular injection of dihydrostreptomycin at a rate of 25 mg/kg dosage as a precautionary treatment for leptospirosis. Feed and bedding used during the isolation/collection period shall not originate from areas infected with epizootic diseases and must meet veterinary hygienic requirements established by the OVO of the PRC concerning freedom of the feed and bedding from contamination that could transmit diseases. During the isolation/collection period the swine at the collection center shall not have direct contact with, or exposure to, any other animals not included in the group at the isolation facility. Exposure consists of contact with yards, pens, or other facilities or vehicles that have been in contact with animals and have not been cleaned and disinfected.

(ii) Donor boars shall be selected from premises which are solely swine breeding operations. These premises must be located at the center of an area with a 16 km radius that was free of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), swine vesicular disease (SVD), and classical swine fever for three years prior to semen collection. Donor boars shall not have been vaccinated against these diseases. There shall have been no cases of these diseases on these premises for five years prior to the collection of semen. There shall have been no animal introduced into these premises from farms affected with these diseases for three years prior to the collection of semen. There shall have been no evidence of brucellosis, tuberculosis, or pseudorabies on these premises or on premises adjacent to these premises for one year prior to the collection of semen.

(iii) During the 60-day isolation/collection period, the boars offered for collection of semen shall be subjected to the following tests,in lieu of the tests required by paragraphs (c)(1)(iv) and (vi) of this section. If test samples from any donor boars are lost, damaged, or destroyed prior to testing, or if test results are inconclusive, the donor boars involved shall be subjected to retesting:

(A) Foot-and-mouth disease:
