
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter D - Exportation and Importation of Animals (Including Poultry) and Animal Products
#### PART 98 - IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN ANIMAL EMBRYOS AND ANIMAL SEMEN
##### Subpart C - Certain Animal Semen
###### ยง 98.34 Import permits for poultry semen and animal semen.
####### 2

() Agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) test using virus infection associated antigen (VIAA) in serum. (Animals having responses to the AGID test or reacting to the VN test at 1:10 dilution or greater shall be eliminated as semen donors, and all other swine in contact with them shall be retested within 30 days. If the whole group does not have the above responses and there is no clinical evidence of FMD, the group shall be eligible for collection of semen with respect to FMD. Otherwise, none of the group shall qualify as donors of semen for export.)

(B) Brucellosis: Standard tube test (STT) at less than 30 IU/ml, and card test (antigen and protocol to be supplied by USDA).

(C) Swine vesicular disease: Virus neutralization test at 1:40 dilution (serums to be tested at FADDL).

(D) Classical swine fever: Fluorescent antibody neutralization (FAN) test at 1:16 dilution.

(E) Japanese B encephalitis: Hemagglutination inhibition (HI) test, negative according to PRC standards.

(F) Pseudorabies: Virus neutralization at 1:4 dilution.

(G) Tuberculosis: Intradermal test using bovine PPD tuberculin (Positive animals will be necropsied. If there are lesions of TB in the test positive pigs, the whole group will be ineligible as semen donors. If no lesions are found, the rest of the pigs will be eligible as semen donors with respect to tuberculosis.

(iv) The semen will not be eligible for release in the United States until all tests in paragraph (c)(7)(iii) of this section have been completed with negative results.

(v) Each semen straw or ampule for export must be identified with the name or identification number of the donor boar and with the date of collection. A USDA veterinarian shall certify that he or she has supervised the collection and processing of the semen and its storage until the time it is shipped to the United States. Each shipment will be accompanied by a USDA veterinarian unless the semen is shipped directly to the port of New York, with no stops en route. Shipment to the United States will be in accordance with the terms of a USDA import permit. Semen imported in accordance with this section shall be released by USDA to the importer only after all requirements of this section have been met.
