
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 102 - LICENSES FOR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS
##### ยง 102.3 License applications.
###### U.S. Veterinary Biologics Establishment License.

(a)(1) The operator of each establishment of the kind specified in ยง 102.2 shall make written application to the Administrator for a license. Blank forms of application will be furnished upon request to Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(2) When a person conducts more than one establishment, a separate application shall be made for each establishment.

(3) Whenever subsidiaries are to operate in an establishment for which license application is made, the applicant shall apply for permission for such subsidiaries to operate in the establishment and furnish therewith a complete statement regarding the relationship between the applicant and the subsidiaries.

(4) Facilities documents, prepared as prescribed in part 108 of this subchapter, shall accompany the application for license unless previously filed with Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(5) Each application for a U.S. Veterinary Biologics Establishment License shall be accompanied by an application for one or more U.S. Veterinary Biological Product Licenses and the supporting documents required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(6) A new application shall be made when a change of ownership, operation, or location of an establishment occurs; or prior to the expiration of a U.S. Veterinary Biologics Establishment License issued for an interim period of time.
