
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 112 - PACKAGING AND LABELING
##### ยง 112.2 Final container label, carton label, and enclosure.
###### Provided,

(12) An indications statement to read, "This product has been shown to be effective for the vaccination of healthy (insert name of species) ____ weeks of age or older against ____."That in the case of very small final container labels or carton, a statement as to where such information is to be found, such as "See enclosure for complete directions," "Full directions on carton," or comparable statement.

(b) Labels may also include any other statement which is not false or misleading and may include factual statements regarding variable response of different animals when vaccinated as directed but may not include disclaimers of merchantability, fitness for the purpose offered, or responsibility for the product.

(c) Labels of biological products prepared at licensed establishments or imported shall not include any statement, design, or device, which overshadows the true name of the product as licensed or which is false or misleading in any particular or which may otherwise deceive the purchaser.

(d) Carton labels and enclosures shall be subject to paragraph (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section.

(1) The statement, "Restricted to use by or under the direction of a veterinarian" or "Restricted to use by a veterinarian," shall be used on all carton labels and enclosures when such restriction is prescribed on the product license.

(2) If the licensee states on the carton labels and enclosures of a product that its sales are restricted to veterinarians, then the entire production of that particular product in the licensed establishment shall be so restricted by the licensee.

(3) The statement "For use in animals only" may appear on the labeling as appropriate for a product to indicate that the product is recommended specifically for animals and not for humans.

(e) When label requirements of a foreign country differ from the requirements as prescribed in this part, special labels may be approved by APHIS for use on biological products to be exported to such country upon receipt of written authorization, acceptable to APHIS, from regulatory officials of the importing country, provided that:

(1) If the labeling contains claims or indications for use not supported by data on file with APHIS, the special labels for export shall not bear the VLN.

(2) All other labels for export shall bear the VLN unless the importing country provides documentation that the VLN is specifically prohibited. When laws, regulations, or other requirements of foreign countries require exporters of biological products prepared in a licensed establishment to furnish official certification that such products have been prepared in accordance with the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act and regulations issued pursuant to the Act, such certification may be made by APHIS.

(f) Multiple-dose final containers of liquid biological product and carton tray covers showing required labeling information are subject to the requirements in this paragraphs.
