
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 112 - PACKAGING AND LABELING
##### ยง 112.5 Review and approval of labeling.
###### Provided,

(iii) For finished labels, submit two copies of each finished final container label, carton label, and enclosure:That when an enclosure is to be used with more than one product, one extra copy shall be submitted for each additional product. One copy of each finished label will be retained by APHIS. One copy will be stamped and returned to the licensee or permittee. Labels to which exceptions are taken shall be marked as sketches and handled under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.

(iv) For finished master labels, submit for each product two copies each of the enclosure and the labels for the smallest size final container and carton. Labels for larger sizes of containers or cartons of the same product that are identical, except for physical dimensions, need not be submitted. Such labels become eligible for use concurrent with the approval of the appropriate finished master label, provided that the marketing of larger size final containers is approved in the filed Outline of Production, and the appropriate larger sizes of containers or cartons are identified on the label mounting sheet. When a master label enclosure is to be used with more than one product, one extra copy for each additional product shall be submitted. One copy of each finished master label will be retained by APHIS. One copy will be stamped and returned to the licensee or permittee. Master labels to which exception are taken will be marked as sketches and handled under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) Mounting:

(i) Each label or sketch shall be securely fastened to a separate sheet of heavy bond paper (8&#x2033; x 11&#x2033;) in such a manner that all information is available for review.

(ii) Two-or three-part cartons, including "sleeves," shall be considered as one label. All parts shall be submitted together.

(iii)(A) When two final containers are packaged together in a combination package, the labels for each shall be mounted on the same sheet of paper and shall be treated as one label. For diagnostic test kits, the labels for use on the individual reagent containers to be included in the kit shall be mounted together on a single sheet of paper, if possible; if necessary, a second sheet of paper may be used. The carton label and enclosure shall be mounted on separate individual sheets.

(B) If either final container label is also used alone or in another combination package, sets of separate labels for each biological product with which it is used shall be submitted for review.

(iv) When the same final container label is applied by different methods such as paper or screen printing, one of each shall be mounted on the same sheet of paper as one submission.

(3) To appear on the top of each page:

(i)(A) Name and product code number of the biological product as it appears on the product license or permit.

(B) Extra copies of enclosures to be used with another product shall bear the name and code number of the product affected.

(ii)(A) Designation of the specimen as a label or master label: sketch, final container label, carton label, or enclosure.

(B) If two final container labels or multiple parts are on one sheet, each shall be named, and the label or part being revised shall be designated.

(iii) Size of package (dose, ml., cc., or units) for which the labels or enclosures are to be used.

(4) To appear on the bottom of each page in the lower left hand corner, if applicable:

(i) The dose size(s) to which the master label applies.

(ii) The APHIS assigned number for the label or sketch to be replaced.

(iii) The APHIS assigned number for the label to be used as a reference for reviewing the submitted label.

(f) Special requirements for foreign language labels:

(1) An accurate English translation must accompany each foreign language label submitted for approval. A statement affirming the accuracy of the translation must also be included.

(2) Foreign language portion of a bilingual label shall be a true translation of the English portion. Reference to additional information on the enclosure shall not be made unless that enclosure is also bilingual.

(g) When a request is received from Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the licensee or permittee shall submit a list of all approved labels currently being used. Each label listed shall be identified as to:

(1) Name and product code number as it appears on the product license or permit for the product; and

(2) Where applicable, the size of the package (doses, ml., cc., or units) on which the label shall be used; and

(3) Label number and date assigned; and

(4) Name of licensee or subsidiary appearing on the label as the producer.

(h) At the time of an inspection, or when requested by APHIS, licensees or permittees shall make all labels and master labels, including labels approved for use but exempted from filing under the master label system, available for review by authorized inspectors. Such labels shall be identical to the approved label or master label except for physical dimensions, reference to recoverable volume or doses and/or certain minor differences permitted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
