
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 112 - PACKAGING AND LABELING
##### ยง 112.7 Special additional requirements.

The label requirements in this section are additional to those prescribed elsewhere in this part.

(a) In the case of biological products containing live Newcastle Disease virus, a caution statement indicating that Newcastle Disease can cause inflammation of the eyelids of humans, and a warning to the user to avoid infecting his eyes shall be included on the enclosure.

(b) In the case of a biological product containing infectious bronchitis virus, all labels shall show the infectious bronchitis virus type or types used in the product. Abbreviation is permitted.

(c) In the case of a biological product containing inactivated rabies virus, carton labels, enclosures, and all but very small final container labels shall include a warning against freezing and the recommendations provided in this paragraph.

(1) That vaccine be administered to animals at 3 months of age or older, with a repeat dose 1 year later.

(2) Subsequent revaccination as determined from the results of duration of immunity studies conducted as prescribed in ยง 113.209, paragraph (b) or (c), or both.

(d) In the case of a biological product containing modified live rabies virus, the carton labels, enclosures, and all but very small final container labels shall include the recommendations provided in this paragraph.

(1) For low egg-passage (below the 180th egg-passage level) the statement "For Use in Dogs Only! Not For Use in Any Other Animal!"

(2) For other vaccines containing modified live rabies virus, the statement "For Use In (designate animal(s)) Only! Not For Use In Any Other Animal!"

(3) Intramuscular injection at one site in the thigh shall be recommended.

(4) The statement "In event of accidental exposure to the vaccine virus, the possible hazard to human health should be considered and State Public Health Officials should be consulted for specific recommendations" shall be prominently placed on all carton labels and on enclosures, if used.

(5) That vaccine be administered to animals at 3 months of age or older, with a repeat dose 1 year later.

(6) Subsequent revaccination as determined from the results of duration of immunity studies conducted as prescribed in ยง 113.312, paragraph (b) or (c), or both.

(e) Labeling for all products for use in mammals must bear an appropriate statement concerning use in pregnant animals.
