
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 112 - PACKAGING AND LABELING
##### ยง 112.7 Special additional requirements.
###### Provided,

(1) For bovine rhinotracheitis vaccine or bovine virus diarrhea vaccine containing modified live virus, all labeling except small final container labels shall bear the following statement: "Do not use in pregnant cows or in calves nursing pregnant cows.":That such vaccines which have been shown to be safe for use in pregnant cows may be excepted from this label requirement by the Administrator.

(2) For other modified live and inactivated vaccine, labeling shall bear a statement appropriate to the level of safety that has been demonstrated in pregnant animals.

(i) Products known to be unsafe in pregnant animals shall include statements such as "Do not use in pregnant animals," or "Unsafe for use in pregnant animals," or an equivalent statement acceptable to APHIS.

(ii) Products without safety documentation acceptable to APHIS, but not known to be unsafe, labeling shall include the statement "This product has not been tested in pregnant animals" or an equivalent statement acceptable to APHIS.

(3) For modified live vaccines containing agents with potential reproductive effects but having acceptable pregnant animal safety data on file with APHIS, labeling still must bear the following statement concerning residual risk: "Fetal health risks associated with the vaccination of pregnant animals with this vaccine cannot be unequivocally determined during clinical trials conducted for licensure. Appropriate strategies to address the risks associated with vaccine use in pregnant animals should be discussed with a veterinarian."

(f) For biological products recommending annual booster vaccinations, such recommendations must be supported by data acceptable to APHIS. In the absence of data that establish the need for booster vaccination, labeling must bear the following statement: "The need for annual booster vaccinations has not been established for this product; consultation with a veterinarian is recommended."

(g) In the case of a liquid product authorized in a filed Outline of Production to be used as a diluent in a combination package, the carton labels and enclosures used for serials which are either not tested for bactericidal or viricidal activity or have been found unsatisfactory by such test shall contain the statement: "CAUTION: DO NOT USE AS DILUENT FOR LIVE VACCINES."

(h) In the case of wart vaccine, recommendations shall be limited to use in cattle. Indications for use shall be for prophylactic use only, as an aid in the control of viral papillomas (warts). All labels shall include a dosage recommendation of at least 10 ml to be given subcutaneously and the dose repeated in 3 to 5 weeks.

(i) All but very small final container labels for feline panleukopenia vaccines shall contain the following recommendations for use:
