
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Applicability
###### ยง 113.2 Testing aids.

To better ensure consistent and reproducible test results when Standard Requirement tests prescribed in the regulations are conducted, National Veterinary Services Laboratories, U.S. Department of Agriculture, may provide testing aids, when available, to licensees, permittees, and applicants for licenses and permits. Such aids shall be as follows:

(a) Supplemental Assay Method (SAM) is a technical bulletin containing detailed instructions for conducting a test. Such instructions shall be in accordance with the procedures currently being followed at National Veterinary Services Laboratories and as improved, proven procedures are developed, shall be revised and reissued prior to application.

(b) Standard Reference Preparation is a serum, virus, bacterial culture, or antigen to be used in test systems for direct comparison with serials of biological products under test.

(c) Standard Test Reagent is a serum, antitoxin, fluorescent antibody conjugate, toxin, virus, bacterial cultural, or antigen to be used in test systems but not for direct comparison with serials of biological products under test.

(d) Seed cultures are small quantities of standard organisms to be propagated by the recipient to establish a supply for use.

(e) Test Code Number is a number assigned by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to each test procedure specified in the Standard Requirements and in each filed Outline of Production where such test is conducted to support a request for release of a serial or subserial.
