
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Applicability
###### ยง 113.3 Sampling of biological products.
####### Miscellaneous:

(9)The number of samples from products not in the categories provided for in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section shall be prescribed in the filed Outline of Production for the product.

(c) Prelicensing and Outline of Production changes: Samples needed to support a license application or a change in the Outline of Production for a licensed product shall be submitted only upon request from the animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Except for miscellaneous products specified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, the number of such samples shall be at least one and one-half times the number prescribed for such product in paragraph (b) of this section. Samples of Master Seeds and Master Cell Stocks with a minimum individual volume of 1 ml shall be submitted as follows:

(1) Ten samples of Bacterial Master Seeds.

(2) Thirteen samples of viral Master Seeds or nonviral Master Seeds requiring cell culture propagation. For Master Seeds isolated or passed in a cell line different from the species of intended use, an additional 2 samples are required for each additional species. For Master Seeds grown in cell culture and intended for use in more than one species, an additional 2 samples are required for each additional species.

(3) Thirty-six samples of at least 1 ml each or six samples of at least 1 ml each, one sample of at least 20 ml, and one sample of at least 10 ml of Master Cell Stocks. In the case of Master Cell Stocks which are persistently infected with a virus, an additional four samples of at least 1 ml each are required. If these persistently infected cell stocks are intended for use in more than one species, an additional two samples of at least 1 ml each are required for each additional species.

(4) Four samples of the Master Cell Stock + n (highest passage) cells.

(d) Sterile diluent: A sample of Sterile Diluent shall accompany each sample of product, other than Marek's Disease Vaccine, if such diluent is required to rehydrate or dilute the product before use. The volume of diluent shall be an appropriate amount to rehydrate or dilute the product. Samples of Sterile Diluent prepared for use with Marek's Disease Vaccine shall be submitted upon request from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(e) Reserve samples shall be selected from each serial and subserial of biological product. Such samples shall be selected at random from final containers of completed product by an employee of the Department, of the licensee, or of the permittee, as designated by the administrator. Each sample shall:

(1) Consist of 5 single-dose packages, 2 multiple-dose packages, or 2 diagnostic test kits, except that, in the case of diagnostic test kits in which final packaging consists of multiple microtiter test plates or strips, a sample may consist of a specified number of test plates or strips along with all other test reagents as prescribed in a filed Outline of Production;

(2) Be adequate in quantity for appropriate examination and testing;

(3) Be truly representative and in final containers;

(4) Be held in a special compartment set aside by the licensee or permittee for holding these samples under refrigeration at the storage temperature recommended on the labels for 6 months after the expiration date stated on the labels. The samples that are stored in this manner shall be delivered to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service upon request.
