
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Applicability
###### § 113.8 In vitro tests for serial release.

(a) Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing seed for production as specified in the Standard Requirements or in the filed Outline of Production. The Administrator may exempt a product from a required animal potency test for release when an evaluation can, with reasonable certainty, be made by:

(1) Subjecting the master seed to the applicable requirements prescribed in §§ 113.64, 113.100, 113.200, and 113.300;

(2) Testing the Master Seed for immunogenicity in a manner acceptable to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS);

(3) Establishing satisfactory potency for the product in accordance with the following provisions:

(i) Potency for live products may be determined by logvirus titer or determining the live bacterial count based on the protective dose used in the Master Seed immunogenicity test plus an adequate overage for adverse conditions and test error; and

(ii) Potency for inactivated products may be determined using tests for relative antigen content by comparing the antigen content of the test serial to a reference preparation using a parallel line immunoassay or equivalent method which measures linearity, specificity, and reproducibility in a manner acceptable to APHIS.

(b) In the case of live products, each serial and subserial of desiccated product derived from an approved Master Seed and bulk or final container samples of each serial of completed liquid product derived from an approved Master Seed shall be evaluated by a test procedure acceptable to APHIS. On the basis of the results of the test, as compared with the required minimum potency, each serial and subserial shall either be released to the firm for marketing or withheld from the market. The evaluation of such products shall be made in accordance with the following criteria:

(1) If the initial test shows the count or titer to equal or exceed the required minimum, the serial or subserial is satisfactory without additional testing.

(2) If the initial test shows the count or titer to be lower than the required minimum, the serial or subserial may be retested, using double the number of samples. The average counts or titers obtained in the retests shall be determined. If the average is less than the required minimum, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory without further consideration.

(3) If the average is equal to or greater than the required minimum, the following shall apply to live virus vaccines:

(i) If the difference between the average titer obtained in the retests and the titer obtained in the initial test is 10or greater, the initial titer may be considered a result of test system error and the serial or subserial considered satisfactory for virus titer.

(ii) If the difference between the average titer obtained in the retests and the titer obtained in the initial test is less than 10, a new average shall be determined using the titers obtained in all tests. If the new average is below the required minimum, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory.

(4) If the average is equal to or greater than the required minimum, the following shall apply to bacterial vaccines:

(i) If the average count obtained in the retests is at least three times the count obtained in the initial test, the initial count may be considered a result of test system error and the serial or subserial considered satisfactory for bacterial count.

(ii) If the average count obtained in the retests is less than three times the count obtained in the initial test, a new average shall be determined using the counts obtained in all tests. If the new average count is below the required minimum, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory.
