
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Standard Procedures
###### ยง 113.26 Detection of viable bacteria and fungi except in live vaccine.

Each serial and subserial of biological product except live vaccines shall be tested as prescribed in this section unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. When cell lines, primary cells, or ingredients of animal origin used in the preparation of a biological product are required to be free of viable bacteria and fungi, they shall also be tested as prescribed in this section.

(a) The media to be used shall be as follows:

(1) Fluid Thioglycollate Medium with 0.5 percent beef extract shall be used to test for bacteria in biological products containing clostridial toxoids, bacterins, and bacterin-toxoids.

(2) Fluid Thioglycollate Medium with or without 0.5 percent beef extract shall be used to test for bacteria in biological products other than clostridial toxoids, bacterins, and bacterin-toxoids.

(3) Soybean-Casein Digest Medium shall be used to test biological products for fungi; provided, that Fluid Thioglycollate Medium without beef extract shall be substituted when testing biological products containing mercurial preservatives.

(b) Test procedure:

(1) Ten test vessels shall be used for each of two media selected in accordance with paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section. Each test vessel shall contain sufficient medium to negate the bacteriostatic or fungistatic activity in the inoculum as determined in ยง 113.25(d).

(2) Inoculum:
