
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Standard Procedures
###### ยง 113.27 Detection of extraneous viable bacteria and fungi in live vaccines.
####### Live viral vaccines.

(a)Each serial and subserial of live viral vaccine shall be tested for purity as prescribed in this paragraph. However, products of chicken embryo origin recommended for administration other than by parenteral injection may be tested as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(1) Soybean Casein Digest Medium shall be used.

(2) Ten final container samples from each serial and subserial shall be tested.

(3) Immediately prior to starting the test, frozen liquid vaccine shall be thawed, and desiccated vaccine shall be rehydrated as recommended on the label with accompanying diluent or with sterile purified water.

(4) To test for bacteria, place 0.2 ml of vaccine from each final container into a corresponding individual vessel containing at least 120 ml of Soybean Casein Digest Medium. Additional medium shall be used if the determination required in ยง 113.25(d) indicates the need for a greater dilution of the product. Incubation shall be at 30 &#xB0;to 35 &#xB0;C for 14 days.

(5) To test for fungi, place 0.2 ml of vaccine from each final container sample into a corresponding individual vessel containing at least 40 ml of Soybean Casein Digest Medium. Additional medium shall be used if the determination required in ยง 113.25(d) indicates the need for a greater dilution of the product. Incubation shall be at 20 &#xB0;to 25 &#xB0;C for 14 days.

(6) Examine the contents of all test vessels macroscopically for microbial growth at the end of the incubation period. If growth in a vessel cannot be reliably determined by visual examination, judgment shall be confirmed by subcultures, microscopic examination, or both.

(7) For each set of test vessels representing a serial or subserial tested according to these procedures, the following rules shall apply:

(i) If growth is found in 2 or 3 test vessels of the initial test, 1 retest to rule out faulty technique may be conducted using 20 unopened final container samples.

(ii) If no growth is found in 9 or 10 of the test vessels in the initial test, or 19 or 20 vessels in the retest, the serial or subserial meets the requirements of the test.

(iii) If growth is found in four or more test vessels in the initial test, or two or more in a retest, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory.
