
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Standard Procedures
###### ยง 113.27 Detection of extraneous viable bacteria and fungi in live vaccines.
####### Live bacterial vaccines.

(b)Each serial or subserial of live bacterial vaccine shall be tested for purity as prescribed in this paragraph.

(1) Soybean Casein Digest Medium and Fluid Thioglycollate Medium shall be used.

(2) Ten final container samples from each serial and subserial shall be tested.

(3) Immediately prior to starting the test, frozen liquid vaccine shall be thawed, and desiccated vaccine shall be rehydrated as recommended on the label with accompanying diluent or with sterile purified water. Product recommended for mass vaccination shall be rehydrated at the rate of 30 ml sterile purified water per 1,000 doses.

(4) To test for extraneous bacteria, place 0.2 ml of vaccine from each final container into a corresponding individual vessel containing at least 40 ml of Fluid Thioglycollate Medium. Additional medium shall be used if the determination required in ยง 113.25(d) indicates the need for a greater dilution of the product. Incubation shall be at 30 &#xB0;to 35 &#xB0;C for 14 days.

(5) To test for extraneous fungi, place 0.2 ml of vaccine from each final container into a corresponding individual vessel containing at least 40 ml of Soybean Casein Digest Medium. Additional medium shall be used if the determination required in ยง 113.25(d) indicates the need for a greater dilution of the product. Incubation shall be at 20 &#xB0;to 25 &#xB0;C for 14 days.

(6) Examine the contents of all test vessels macroscopically for atypical microbial growth at the end of the incubation period. If growth of extraneous microorganisms cannot be reliably determined by visual examination, judgment shall be confirmed by subculturing, microscopic examination, or both.

(7) For each set of test vessels representing a serial or subserial tested according to these procedures, the following rules shall apply:

(i) If extraneous growth is found in 2 or 3 test vessels of the initial test, 1 retest to rule out faulty technique may be conducted using 20 unopened final container samples.

(ii) If no extraneous growth is found in 9 or 10 test vessels in the initial test, or 19 or 20 vessels in the retest, the serial or subserial meets the requirements of the test.

(iii) If extraneous growth is found in 4 or more test vessels in the initial test, or 2 or more in a retest, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory.
