
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Standard Procedures
###### ยง 113.27 Detection of extraneous viable bacteria and fungi in live vaccines.
####### Master Seed Virus.

(c)Not less than 4 ml of each lot of Master Seed Virus shall be tested. Frozen liquid Master Seed Virus shall be thawed, and desiccated Master Seed Virus shall be rehydrated with Soybean Casein Digest Medium immediately prior to starting the test.

(1) To test for bacteria, place 0.2 ml of the sample of Master Seed Virus into 10 individual vessels each containing at least 120 ml of Soybean Casein Digest Medium. Incubation shall be at 30 &#xB0;to 35 &#xB0;C for 14 days.

(2) To test for fungi, place 0.2 ml of the sample of Master Seed Virus into 10 individual vessels each containing at least 40 ml of Soybean Casein Digest Medium. Incubation shall be at 20 &#xB0;to 25 &#xB0;C for 14 days.

(3) Examine the contents of all test vessels macroscopically for microbial growth at the end of the incubation period. If growth in a vessel cannot be reliably determined by visual examination, judgment shall be confirmed by subcultures, microscopic examination, or both.

(4) For each set of test vessels representing a lot of Master Seed Virus tested according to these procedures, the following rules shall apply:

(i) If growth is found in any test vessel of the initial test, one retest to rule out faulty technique may be conducted using a new sample of Master Seed Virus.

(ii) If growth is found in any test vessel of the final test, the lot of Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory.
