
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Standard Procedures
###### ยง 113.37 Detection of pathogens by the chicken embryo inoculation test.

The test for detection of extraneous pathogens provided in this section shall be conducted when such a test is prescribed in an applicable Standard Requirement or in the filed Outline of Production for the product.

(a) The biological product to be tested shall be prepared for use as recommended on the label, or in the case of desiccated vaccine to be used in poultry, rehydrated with sterile distilled water at the rate of 30 ml per 1,000 doses.

(b) One volume of the prepared vaccine shall be mixed with up to nine volumes of sterile heat-inactivated specific antiserum to neutralize the vaccine virus in the product. Each lot of antiserum shall be demonstrated by virus neutralization tests not to inhibit other viruses known to be possible contaminants.

(c) After neutralization, 0.2 ml of the vaccine-serum mixture shall be inoculated into each of at least 20 fully susceptible chicken embryos.

(1) Twenty embryos, 9 to 11 days old, shall be inoculated on the chorio-allantoic membrane (CAM) with 0.1 ml, and in the allantoic sac with 0.1 ml.

(2) Eggs shall be candled daily for 7 days. Deaths occurring during the first 24 hours shall be disregarded but at least 18 viable embryos shall survive 24 hours post-inoculation for a valid test. Examine all embryos and CAM's from embryos which die after the first day. When necessary, embryo subcultures shall be made to determine the cause of a death. The test shall be concluded on the seventh day post-inoculation and the surviving embryos (including CAM's) examined.
