
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Standard Procedures
###### ยง 113.46 Detection of cytopathogenic and/or hemadsorbing agents.
####### Test for hemadsorbing agents.

(b)One or more monolayers that are at least 6 cmand at least 7 days from the last subculture shall be tested as provided in this paragraph.

(1) Wash the monolayer with several changes of phosphate buffered saline.

(2) Add an appropriate volume of a 0.2 percent red blood cell suspension to uniformly cover the surface of the monolayer of cultured cells. Suspensions of washed guinea pig and chicken red blood cells shall be used. These suspensions may be mixed before addition to the monolayer or they may be added separately to individual monolayers.

(3) Incubate the monolayer at 4 &#xB0;C for 30 minutes, wash with phosphate buffered saline, and examine for hemadsorption.

(4) If no hemadsorption is apparent, repeat step (b)(2) of this section and incubate the monolayers at 20-25 &#xB0;C for 30 minutes, wash with phosphate buffered saline, and examine again for hemadsorption. If desired, separate monolayers may be used for each incubation temperature.

(c) If specific cytopathology or hemadsorption attributable to an extraneous agent is found, the material under test is unsatisfactory and shall not be used to prepare biological products. If an extraneous agent is suspected because of cytopathology or hemadsorption and cannot be eliminated as a possibility by additional testing, the material under test is unsatisfactory.
