
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Ingredient Requirements
###### § 113.53 Requirements for ingredients of animal origin used for production of biologics.

Each lot of ingredient of animal origin which is not subjected to heat sterilization or other sterilization methods acceptable to Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), such as, but not limited to serum and albumin, used to prepare a biological product shall be tested as prescribed in this section by the licensee or a laboratory acceptable to VS. Results of all tests shall be recorded by the testing laboratory and made a part of the licensee's records. A lot of ingredient found unsatisfactory by any prescribed test shall not be used to prepare a biological product. A serial of biological product shall not be released if produced using an ingredient that is found unsatisfactory by any prescribed test.

(a) Samples of each lot of ingredient of animal origin which is not subjected to heat sterilization, used to prepare a biological product shall be shown free of mycoplasma by the method prescribed in § 113.28.

(b) Samples of each lot of ingredient or animal origin which is not subjected to heat sterilization of other sterilization methods acceptable to APHIS used to prepare a biological product shall be shown free of bacteria and fungi as prescribed in § 113.26.

(c) Samples of each lot of ingredient of animal origin, except porcine trypsin, which is not subjected to heat sterilization or other viricidal procedure acceptable to APHIS used in the preparation of biological products shall be tested as prescribed in this paragraph;

(1) Monolayers at least 75 cmof Vero (African green monkey kidney) cell line and of primary cells or a cell line of the same species of origin as the ingredient shall be used in the test. Cell lines used shall have been found satisfactory when tested as prescribed in § 113.52 and primary cells used shall have been found satisfactory when tested as prescribed in § 113.51.

(2) At least 3.75 ml or 15 percent of the ingredient shall be used in the growth medium for the preparation of at least 75 cmtest monolayers. The ingredient shall also be used in the growth medium when monolayers are subcultured. If the ingredient being tested is cytotoxic when tested in this manner, other procedures may be used if approved by APHIS.

(3) The test monolayers shall be maintained for at least 21 days.

(4) Cells shall be subcultured at least two times during the maintenance period. All but the last subculture shall result in at least one new monolayer of at least 75 cm. The last subculture shall meet the minimum area requirements specified in §§ 113.46 and 113.47.

(5) Monolayers shall be examined regularly throughout the 21-day maintenance period for evidence of cytopathogenic agents. If evidence of a cytopathogenic agent is found, the ingredient is unsatisfactory.

(6) At the conclusion of the 21-day maintenance period, monolayers shall be tested for:

(i) Cytopathogenic and/or hemadsorbing agents as prescribed in § 113.46; and

(ii) Extraneous viruses by the fluorescent antibody technique as prescribed in § 113.47.

(d) Each lot of porcine trypsin which has not been treated to inactivate porcine parvovirus (PPV) in a manner acceptable to VS shall be tested for PPV as prescribed in this paragraph.

(1) Not less than 5.0 grams of trypsin shall be dissolved in a volume of suitable diluent sufficient to fill a centrifuge angle head. After centrifuging for 1 hour at 80,000 x g, the pellet material shall be reconstituted in distilled water and inoculated into a flask containing 75 cmof a 30 to 50 percent confluent monolayer culture of primary porcine cells or a porcine cell line of proven equal PPV susceptibility. An additional flask of cells shall be held as a negative control.

(2) The test and control monolayers shall be maintained for at least 14 days and subcultured at least once during the maintenance period.

(3) At the end of the 14-day maintenance period, and 4 to 7 days after the last subculturing, monolayers shall be tested for the presence of porcine parvovirus by the fluorescent antibody technique as prescribed in § 113.47(c).

(e) A sample of serum from each donor horse used to produce a lot of equine serum used in the preparation of biological products recommended for use in horses shall be tested at a laboratory approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service using the Coggins test for equine infectious anemia antibodies. If antibodies to equine infectious anemia are found, the lot of serum is unsatisfactory.
