
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Bacterial Vaccines
###### § 113.64 General requirements for live bacterial vaccines.
####### Safety tests.

(b)(1) Samples of completed product from each serial or first subserial and samples of each lot of Master Seed Bacteria shall be tested for safety in young adult mice in accordance with the test provided in § 113.33(b) unless:

(i) The bacteria or agents in the vaccine are inherently lethal for mice.

(ii) The vaccine is recommended for poultry.

(2) Samples of completed product from each serial or first subserial of live bacterial vaccine shall be tested for safety in one of the species for which the product is recommended as follows:

(i) Live bacterial vaccine recommended for use in dogs shall be tested as provided in § 113.40, except that dogs shall be injected with the equivalent of two doses of vaccine administered as recommended on the label.

(ii) Live bacterial vaccine recommended for use in cattle shall be tested as provided in § 113.41, except that calves shall be injected with the equivalent of two doses of vaccine administered as recommended on the label.

(iii) Live bacterial vaccine recommended for use in sheep shall be tested as provided in § 113.45.

(iv) Live bacterial vaccine recommended for use in swine shall be tested as provided in § 113.44.
