
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Bacterial Vaccines
###### ยง 113.65 Brucella Abortus Vaccine.
####### Bacterial count requirements for reduced dose vaccine.

(b)Each serial and each subserial shall be tested for potency.

(1) Two final container vials of completed product shall be tested for the number of viable organisms per dose of rehydrated vaccine. A bacterial count per vial shall be made on tryptose agar plates from suitable dilutions using 1 percent peptone as a diluent. The inoculated media shall be incubated at 35 to 37 &#xB0;C for 96 hours.

(2) If the average count of the two final container samples of freshly prepared vaccine contains less than 3.0 or more than 10.0 billion organisms per dose, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory.

(3) If the average count on the initial test is less than the minimum or greater than the maximum required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the serial or subserial may be retested one time using four additional final container vials. The average count of the retest is determined. If the average count of the four vials retested is less than the required minimum or greater than the required maximum, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory. If the average count of the four vials retested is within the required limits described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the following shall apply:

(i) If the average count obtained in the initial test is less than one-third or more than three times the average count obtained on the retest, the average count of the initial test shall be considered the result of test system error and the serial or subserial is satisfactory.

(ii) If the average count obtained in the initial test is one-third or more than the average retest count or three times or less than the average retest count, a new average count shall be determined from the counts of all six vials. If the new average is less than the minimum or greater than the maximum required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory.

(4) If tested at any time within the expiration period, each dose of rehydrated vaccine must contain at least 3.0 billion viable organisms per dose.
