
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Bacterial Vaccines
###### ยง 113.69 Pasteurella Multocida Vaccine, Bovine.
####### Pasteurella multocida

(3) The vaccinates and controls shall be examined and their average body temperature determined prior to challenge. Fourteen to twenty-one days post vaccination, the vaccinates and controls shall each be challenged by the respiratory route with a (virulent) pneumonia producingculture and observed for 4 to 10 days. The challenge culture and instructions for preparation for use shall be furnished or approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(4) A satisfactory challenge shall be evidenced in the controls by progression of clinical signs consistent with respiratory system infection following challenge, including but not limited to acute illness with higher body temperature and respiration rate, lacrimation, mucoid nasal exudate, expiratory dyspnea, tachypnea, pulmonary rales, and cough, possibly terminating in death; moribundity, depression with anorexia; diarrhea with substantial weight loss; or any combination of these symptoms.

(5) Lung lesion response to challenge will be assessed in all calves. Lung lesions will be assessed at necropsy in calves that succumb to challenge. Surviving calves will be euthanized on day 4 to 10 following challenge and lung lesions assessed at necropsy. Lung lesion scores will be used in the assessment of the response to challenge exposure. If a significant difference in lung lesion scores cannot be demonstrated between vaccinates and controls using a scoring system approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the Master Seed is unsatisfactory.

(6) An Outline of Production change must be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed is granted by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
