
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Inactivated Bacterial Products
###### ยง 113.100 General requirements for inactivated bacterial products.
####### Ingredient requirements.

(d)Ingredients used for the growth and preparation of Master Seed Bacteria and of final product shall meet the requirements provided in ยง 113.50. Ingredients of animal origin shall meet the applicable requirements provided in ยง 113.53.

(e) Only serials tested for viricidal activity in accordance with the test provided in ยง 113.35 and found satisfactory by such test shall be packaged as diluent for desiccated fractions in combination packages.

(f) If formaldehyde is used as the inactivating agent, and the serial has not been found satisfactory by the viricidal activity test, bulk or final container samples of completed product from each serial must be tested for residual free formaldehyde content using the ferric chloride test.Firms currently using tests for residual free formaldehyde content other than the ferric chloride test have until July 14, 2004 to update their Outline of Production to be in compliance with this requirement.

(1) The residual free formaldehyde content of biological products containing clostridial antigens must not exceed 1.85 grams per liter (g/L).

(2) The residual free formaldehyde content of bacterins, bacterin-toxoids, and toxoids, other than those containing clostridial antigens, must not exceed 0.74 grams per liter (g/L).
