
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Inactivated Bacterial Products
###### ยง 113.108 Clostridium Novyi Bacterin-Toxoid.
####### Provided,

(iii) If less than seven rabbits are available, the test is invalid and shall be repeated:That, if the test is not repeated, the serial shall be declared unsatisfactory.

(4) The antitoxin content of the rabbit serums shall be determined by the serum neutralization test as follows:

(i) Make a dilution of Standard Antitoxin to contain 0.1 International Unit of antitoxin per ml.

(ii) Make a dilution of Standard Toxin in which 0.1 Lo dose is contained in a volume of 1 ml or less. Make a second dilution of Standard Toxin in which 0.1 L + dose is contained in a volume of 1 ml or less.

(iii) Combine 0.1 International Unit of Standard Antitoxin with 0.1 Lo dose of diluted Standard Toxin and combine 0.1 International Unit of Standard Antitoxin with 0.1 L + dose of diluted Standard Toxin. Each mixture is adjusted to a final volume of 2.0 ml with diluent.

(iv) Combine 0.1 Lo dose of diluted Standard Toxin with a 0.2 ml volume of undiluted serum. The mixture is adjusted to a final volume of 2.0 ml with diluent.

(v) Neutralize all toxin-antitoxin mixtures at room temperature for 1 hour and hold in ice water until injections of mice can be made.

(vi) Five Swiss white mice, each weighing 16-20 grams, shall be used for each toxin-antitoxin mixture. A dose of 0.2 ml shall be injected intravenously into each mouse. Conclude the test 72 hours post injection and record all deaths.

(5) Test Interpretation shall be as follows:
