
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Inactivated Bacterial Products
###### ยง 113.111 Clostridium Perfringens Type C Toxoid and Bacterin-Toxoid.
####### Provided,

(iii) If less than seven rabbits are available, the test is a No Test and shall be repeated:That, if the test is not repeated, the serial shall be declared unsatisfactory.

(4) The antitoxin content of the rabbit serums shall be determined as follows:

(i) Make a dilution of Standard Antitoxin to contain 10 International Units of antitoxin per ml.

(ii) Make one dilution of Standard Toxin to contain 10 Ldoses per ml and make a second dilution of Standard Toxin to contain 10 Ldoses per ml.

(iii) Combine 10 International Units of Standard Antitoxin with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin and combine 10 International Units of Standard Antitoxin with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin.

(iv) Combine 1 ml of undiluted serum with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin.

(v) Neutralize all toxin-antitoxin mixtures at room temperature for 1 hour and hold in ice water until injections of mice can be made.

(vi) Five Swiss white mice, each weighing 16-20 grams, shall be used for each toxin-antitoxin mixture. A dose of 0.2 ml shall be injected intravenously into each mouse. Conclude the test 24 hours post-injection and record all deaths.

(5) Test Interpretation shall be as follows:
