
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Inactivated Bacterial Products
###### ยง 113.112 Clostridium Perfringens Type D Toxoid and Bacterin-Toxoid.
####### Provided,

(iii) If less than seven rabbits are available, the test is a No Test and shall be repeated:That, if the test is not repeated, the serial shall be declared unsatisfactory.

(4) The antitoxin content of the rabbit serums shall be determined as follows:

(i) Make a dilution of Standard Antitoxin to contain 1 International Unit of antitoxin per ml.

(ii) Make one dilution of Standard Toxin to contain 10 Ldoses per ml and make a second dilution of Standard Toxin to contain 10 Ldoses per ml.

(iii) Combine 1 International Unit of Standard Antitoxin with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin and Combine 1 International Unit of Standard Antitoxin with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin.

(iv) Dilute 1 ml of serum with 1 ml of diluent (1:2) and combine 1 ml of this solution with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin.

(v) Neutralize all toxin-antitoxin mixtures at room temperature for 1 hour and hold in ice water until injections of mice can be made.

(vi) Five Swiss white mice, each weighing 16-20 grams, shall be used for each toxin-antitoxin mixture. A dose of 0.2 ml shall be injected intravenously into each mouse. Conclude the test 24 hours post-injection and record all deaths.

(5) Test Interpretation shall be as follows:
