
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Inactivated Bacterial Products
###### ยง 113.113 Autogenous biologics.
####### Seed requirements.

(a)The microorganisms used as seed to prepare autogenous biologics shall be microorganisms which are isolated from sick or dead animals in the herd of origin and which there is reason to believe are the causative agent(s) of the current disease affecting such animals.

(1) More than one microorganism isolated from the same herd may be used as seed.

(2) Under normal circumstances, microorganisms from one herd must not be used to prepare an autogenous biologic for another herd. The Administrator, however, may authorize preparation of an autogenous biologic for use in herds adjacent to the herd of origin, when adjacent herds are considered to be at risk. To request authorization to prepare a product for use in herds adjacent to the herd of origin, the establishment seeking authorization must submit to the Administrator (in c/o the Director, Center for Veterinary Biologics, Inspection and Compliance, 1920 Dayton Avenue, P.O. Box 844, Ames, IA 50010) the following information. (If any of the data are unavailable, the applicant for authorization should indicate that such data are unavailable and why.)

(i) Name, address, and phone number of the owner of the herd of origin.

(ii) Attending veterinarian's name, address, and phone number.

(iii) Animal species and number in herd of origin.

(iv) Identification of microorganism(s), at least to genus.

(v) Diagnosis or clinical signs of the disease observed.

(vi) Name and address of the person who isolated the microorganism(s) and the date of isolation.

(vii) Number of doses of autogenous biologic requested and vaccination schedule.

(viii) Each adjacent herd owner's name, address, and phone number.

(ix) Number of animals and species in each adjacent herd.

(x) The attending veterinarian's or approved specialist's assessment of the involvement of the adjacent herd(s) with the disease observed.

(3) The Administrator may authorize preparation of an autogenous biologic for use in herds which are not adjacent to the herd of origin, but which he or she considers to be at risk of infection with the same microorganism(s). Except as provided below, the same information which is required for preparation of such product for use in herds adjacent to the herd of origin must be submitted to the Administrator (in c/o the Director, Center for Veterinary Biologics, Inspection and Compliance, 1920 Dayton Avenue, P.O. Box 844, Ames, IA 50010) for authorization to prepare a product for use in herds not adjacent to the herd of origin. Because the recipient herd involved may not be known when autogenous biologics are to be used in other geographic areas, the following data may be used in place of the data required in paragraphs (a)(2)(viii) and (a)(2)(ix) of this section.

(i) Names and addresses of practitioners in the area in place of the name, address, and phone number of the adjacent herd owner.

(ii) The geographic designations of the area involved.

(iii) A summary of the epidemiology of the disease situation that links the designated geographic areas with the herd of origin.
