
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Inactivated Bacterial Products
###### ยง 113.114 Tetanus Toxoid.
####### Provided,

(3) If the antitoxin titer of the serum pool is at least 2.0 A.U. per ml, the serial is satisfactory. If the antitoxin titer of the serum pool is less than 2.0 A.U. per ml, the serial may be retested by the following procedure:That, if the serial is not retested, it shall be declared unsatisfactory.

(4) For serials in which the serum pool contains less than 2.0 A.U. per ml, the individual serum that constituted the pool may be tested by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. If at least 80 percent of the individual serums have an antitoxin titer of at least 2.0 A.U. per ml, the serial is satisfactory. If less than 80 percent of the individual serums have an antitoxin titer of at least 2.0 A.U. per ml, the serial may be retested in 10 guinea pigs using the procedure described in (c)(1) and (2) above. The antitoxin titer of the pooled serum from the guinea pigs used in the retest shall be averaged with the antitoxin level of the pooled serum from the initial test. If the average of the two pools is at least 2.0 A.U. per ml, the serial is satisfactory. If the average of the two pools is less than 2.0 A.U. per ml, the serial is unsatisfactory and shall not be retested further.
