
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Inactivated Bacterial Products
###### ยง 113.122 Salmonella Choleraesuis Bacterin.
####### Provided,

(8) If the 50 percent endpoint of an Unknown cannot be calculated because the lowest dilution does not exceed 50 percent protection, that serial may be retested in a manner identical to the initial test;That, if the Unknown is not retested or if the protection provided by the lowest dilution of the Standard exceeds the protection provided by the lowest dilution of the Unknown by six mice or more; or, if the total number of mice protected by the Standard exceeds the total number of mice protected by the Unknown by eight mice or more, the serial being tested is unsatisfactory.

(9) If the 50 percent endpoint of an Unknown in a valid test cannot be calculated because the highest dilution exceeds 50 percent protection, the Unknown is satisfactory without additional testing.

(10) If the RP is less than the minimum required in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, the serial may be retested by conducting two independent replicate tests in a manner identical to the initial test. The average of the RP values obtained in the retests shall be determined. If the average RP is less than the required minimum, the serial is unsatisfactory. If the average RP obtained in the retests is equal to or greater than the required minimum, the following shall apply:

(i) If the RP obtained in the original test is one-third or less than the average RP obtained in the retests, the initial RP may be considered a result of test system error and the serial is satisfactory.

(ii) If the RP value obtained in the original test is more than one-third the average RP obtained in the retests, a new average shall be determined using the RP values obtained in all tests. If the new average is less than the minimum required in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, the serial is unsatisfactory.
