
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Killed Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.210 Feline Calicivirus Vaccine, Killed Virus.
####### Potency.

(2)Bulk or final container samples of completed product shall be treated for potency as follows:

(i) Eight feline calicivirus susceptible cats (five vaccinates and three controls) shall be used as test animals. Throat and nasal swabs shall be collected from each cat and individually tested on susceptible cell cultures for the presence of feline calicivirus. Blood samples shall be drawn and individual serum samples tested for neutralizing antibody. The cats shall be considered suitable for use if all swabs are negative for virus isolation and all serums are negative for calicivirus antibody at the 1:2 final dilution in a 50 percent plaque reduction test or other test of equal sensitivity.

(ii) The five cats used as vaccinates shall be administered one dose of vaccine by the method recommended on the label. If two doses are recommended, the second dose shall be given after the interval recommended on the label.

(iii) Fourteen or more days after the final dose of vaccine, the vaccinates and controls shall each be challenged intranasally with virulent feline calicivirus furnished or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and observed each day for 14 days postchallenge. The rectal temperature of each animal shall be taken and the presence or absence of clinical signs, particularly lesions on the oral mucosa, noted and recorded each day.

(iv) If three of three controls do not show clinical signs of feline calicivirus infection other than fever, the test is inconclusive and may be repeated.

(v) If a significant difference in clinical signs cannot be demonstrated between vaccinates and controls using a scoring system approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and prescribed in the Outline of Production, the serial is unsatisfactory.
