
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Killed Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.212 Bursal Disease Vaccine, Killed Virus.

Bursal Disease Vaccine, Killed Virus, shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids or embryonated chicken eggs. Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing seeds for vaccine production. All serials shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed.

(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable requirements prescribed in ยง 113.200.

(b) Each lot of Master Seed shall be tested for pathogens by the chicken embryo inoculation test prescribed in ยง 113.37, except that, if the test is a No Test because of a vaccine virus override, the chicken inoculation test prescribed in ยง 113.36 may be conducted and the virus judged accordingly.

(c) The immunogenicity of vaccine prepared in accordance with the Outline of Production shall be established by a method acceptable to Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Vaccine used for this test shall be at the highest passage from the Master Seed and prepared at the minimum preinactivation titer specified in the Outline of Production. The test shall establish that the vaccine, when used as recommended on the label, is capable of inducing an immune response in dams of sufficient magnitude to provide significant protection to offspring.
