
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Killed Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.216 Bovine Rhinotracheitis Vaccine, Killed Virus.
####### Potency.

(2)Bulk or final container samples of completed product shall be tested for potency using the method described in this paragraph.

(i) Eight infectious bovine rhinotracheitis susceptible calves (five vaccinates, three controls) shall be used as test animals. Individual serum samples shall be collected, inactivated, and individually tested for neutralizing antibody.

(ii) A constant virus decreasing serum neutralization test in cell culture using 50-300 TCID50 of virus shall be used. Calves shall be considered susceptible if there is no neutralization at 1:2 final serum dilution. Other tests of equal sensitivity acceptable to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may be used.

(iii) The five calves used as vaccinates shall be administered one dose of vaccine as recommended on the label. If two doses are recommended, the second dose shall be given according to the interval recommended on the label.

(iv) Fourteen or more days after the last vaccination, blood samples shall be drawn and the individual serum samples inactivated and tested for infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus neutralizing antibody by the same method used to determine susceptibility.
