
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.305 Canine Hepatitis and Canine Adenovirus Type 2 Vaccine.
####### Immunogenicity for canine hepatitis.

(1)Twenty-five canine hepatitis susceptible dogs shall be used as test animals (20 vaccinates and 5 controls). Blood samples shall be drawn from these animals and individual serum samples tested. The dogs shall be considered susceptible if the results are negative at a 1:2 final serum dilution in a varying serum-constant virus neutralization test using 50 to 300 TCIDof canine adenovirus.

(i) A geometric mean titer of the dried vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed Virus shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 dogs to be used as vaccinates shall be injected with a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus and the remaining five dogs held as uninjected controls. To confirm the dosage calculations, five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used.

(ii) Not less than 14 days postinjection, the vaccinates and the controls shall each be challenged intravenously with virulent infectious canine hepatitis virus furnished or approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and observed each day for 14 days.

(A) If at least four of the five controls do not show severe clinical signs of canine hepatitis, the test is a No Test and may be repeated.

(B) If at least 19 of the 20 vaccinates do not survive without showing clinical signs of infectious canine hepatitis during the observation period, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory.
