
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.305 Canine Hepatitis and Canine Adenovirus Type 2 Vaccine.
####### Immunogenicity for canine adenovirus Type 2.

(2)Thirty canine adenovirus type 2 susceptible dogs shall be used as test animals (20 vaccinates and 10 controls). Blood samples shall be drawn from these animals and individual serum samples tested. The dogs shall be considered susceptible if the results are negative at a 1:2 final serum dilution in a varying serum-constant virus neutralization test using 50 to 300 TCIDof canine adenovirus.

(i) A geometric mean titer of the dried vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed Virus shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 dogs to be used as vaccinates shall be injected with a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus and the remaining 10 dogs held as uninjected controls. To confirm the dosage calculations, five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used.

(ii) Not less than 14 days postinjection, the vaccinates and the controls shall be challenged by exposure to a nebulized aerosol of virulent canine adenovirus type 2 furnished or approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and observed each day for 14 days postchallenge. The rectal temperature of each animal shall be taken and the presence of respiratory or other clinical signs of canine adenovirus type 2 noted and recorded each day.

(A) If at least 6 of 10 controls do not show clinical signs of canine adenovirus type 2 infection other than fever, the test is a No Test and may be repeated.

(B) If a significant difference in clinical signs in a valid test cannot be demonstrated between vaccinates and controls using a scoring system approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory.

(iii) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authorization for use of a new lot of Master Seed Virus shall be granted by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
