
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.308 Encephalomyelitis Vaccine, Venezuelan.

Encephalomyelitis Vaccine, Venezuelan, shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids. Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing seeds for vaccine production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed.

(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 except (b), and the requirements prescribed in this section.

(b) Each lot of Master Seed shall be tested for immunogenicity. The selected virus dose from the lot of Master Seed shall be established as follows:

(1) Tests conducted by the Department have established that horses having Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis antibody titers of 1:20 by the hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) method or 1:40 by the serum neutralization (SN) method were immune to challenge with virulent virus. The immunogenicity test is based on the demonstration of a serological response of at least that magnitude following vaccination of serologically negative horses.

(2) At least 22 horses (20 vaccinates and 2 controls), susceptible to Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis, shall be used as test animals. Blood samples shall be taken from each horse and the serums individually tested for neutralizing antibody. Horses shall be considered susceptible if there is no neutralization at a 1:2 final serum dilution in a constant virus-varying serum neutralization test using 60 to 300 TCIDof Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis virus.

(3) A geometric mean titer of the vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed shall be established using a method acceptable to Veterinary Services before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 horses used as vaccinates shall be injected with a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus by the method to be recommended on the label. To confirm the dosage administered, five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used.

(4) Twenty-one to twenty-eight days postvaccination, blood samples shall be drawn from all test animals. For a valid test, the controls shall remain seronegative at 1:2 final serum dilution. In a valid test, if at least 19 of 20 vaccinates do not have antibody titers of at least 1:20 in a hemagglutination-inhibition test or at least 1:40 in a serum neutralization test, the Master Seed is unsatisfactory.

(5) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
