
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.310 Bovine Rhinotracheitis Vaccine.

Bovine Rhinotracheitis Vaccine shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids. Only Master Seed Virus which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing the production seed virus for vaccine production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the tenth passage from the Master Seed Virus.

(a) The Master Seed Virus shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300.

(b) Each lot of Master Seed Virus shall meet the special requirements prescribed in this section.

(c) Each lot of Master Seed Virus used for vaccine production shall be tested for immunogenicity. The selected virus dose from the lot of Master Seed Virus shall be established as follows:

(1) Twenty-five infectious bovine rhinotracheitis susceptible calves shall be used as test animals (20 vaccinates and five controls). Blood samples shall be drawn from these animals and individual serums tested. The calves shall be considered susceptible if the results are negative at a 1:2 final serum dilution by the virus plaque reduction method.

(2) A geometric mean titer of the dried vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed Virus shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 calves to be used as vaccinates shall be injected with a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus and the remaining five calves held as uninjected controls. To confirm the dosage calculations, five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used.

(3) At least once during a period of 14 to 28 days post-vaccination, individual serum samples shall be collected for virus-neutralization tests from each of the vaccinates. The test virus shall be 100 to 500 TCIDbovine rhinotracheitis virus. Results shall be used in making a determination as prescribed in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.

(4) The vaccinates and the controls shall each be challenged with virulent infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus and observed for 14 days. The rectal temperature of each animal shall be taken and the presence or absence of respiratory or other clinical signs of bovine rhinotracheitis noted and recorded on each of the 14 consecutive days.

(5) If at least four of the five controls do not show clinical signs of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis and a marked temperature rise to 104.5 &#xB0;F. or higher post-challenge, the test shall be considered a No Test and may be repeated.

(6) If less than 19 of the post-injection serum samples tested as prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section show neutralization in all tubes of the 1:2 final serum dilution, or if more than one of the vaccinates show a temperature of 103.5 &#xB0;F. or higher for 2 or more days, or if more than one of the vaccinates exhibit respiratory or other clinical signs of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, or both, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory.

(7) A sequential test procedure may be used in lieu of the 20 calf requirement. A beta value of .05 and a tolerance level of .78 shall be required.

(8) An outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed Virus shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(d) Test requirements for release: Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 and the requirements in this paragraph. Final container samples of completed product shall be tested except as prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Any serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released.
