
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.311 Bovine Virus Diarrhea Vaccine.

Bovine Virus Diarrhea Vaccine shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids. Only Master Seed Virus which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing the production seed virus for vaccine production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the tenth passage from the Master Seed Virus.

(a) The Master Seed Virus shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300.

(b) Each lot of Master Seed Virus shall meet the special requirements prescribed in this section.

(c) Each lot of Master Seed Virus used for vaccine production shall be tested for immunogenicity. The selected virus dose from the lot of Master Seed Virus shall be established as follows:

(1) Twenty-five bovine virus diarrhea susceptible calves shall be used as test animals (20 vaccinates and five controls). Blood samples shall be drawn from these animals and individuals serum samples tested. The calves shall be considered susceptible to bovine virus diarrhea virus infection if the results are negative at a 1:2 final serum dilution in a varying serum-constant virus neutralization test with less than 500 TCIDof bovine virus diarrhea virus.

(2) A geometric mean titer of the dried vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed Virus shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 calves to be used as vaccinates shall be injected with a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus and the remaining five calves held as uninjected controls. To confirm the dosage calculations, five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used.

(3) At least once during a period 14 to 28 days post-vaccination, individual serum samples shall be collected for virus-neutralization tests from each of the vaccinates. The test virus shall be less than 500 TCIDof bovine virus diarrhea virus. The white cell count for all vaccinates and controls shall be established at least 3 days just before challenge. Results shall be used in making a determination as prescribed in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(4) The vaccinates and the controls shall each be challenged with virulent bovine virus diarrhea virus and observed for 14 consecutive days. The white cell count shall be determined daily on each animal from the second through the eighth day post-challenge. If leukopenia does not develop in at least four of the five controls as compared with the vaccinates, the test shall be considered a No Test and may be repeated.

(5) If less than 19 of the post-injection serum samples, tested as prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, show neutralization in all tubes of the 1:8 dilution; or if more than one of the vaccinates exhibits respiratory or other clinical signs of bovine virus diarrhea post-challenge; or both, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory.

(6) A sequential test procedure may be used in lieu of the 20 calf requirement. A beta value of .05 and a tolerance level of .78 shall be required.

(7) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed Virus shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(d) Test requirements for release: Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 and the requirements in this paragraph. Final container samples of completed product shall be tested except as prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Any serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released.
