
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.316 Canine Parainfluenza Vaccine.

Canine Parainfluenza Vaccine shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids. Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing seeds for vaccine production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed.

(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 and the requirements in this section.

(b) Each lot of Master Seed shall be tested for immunogenicity. The selected virus dose shall be established as follows:

(1) Twenty-five canine parainfluenza susceptible dogs (20 vaccinates and 5 controls) shall be used as test animals. Nasal swabs shall be collected from each dog on the day the first dose of vaccine is administered and individually tested on susceptible cell cultures for the presence of canine parainfluenza virus. Blood samples shall also be drawn and individual serum samples tested for neutralizing antibody. Dogs shall be considered susceptible if all swabs are negative for virus isolation and if all serums are negative for canine parainfluenza antibody at a 1:2 final dilution in a constant virus-varying serum neutralization test using 50 to 300 TCIDof canine parainfluenza virus.

(2) A geometric mean titer of vaccine produced at the highest passage from the Master Seed shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 dogs used as vaccinates shall be administered a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus. Five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used to confirm the dosage administered. If two doses are used, five replicate confirming titrations shall be conducted on each dose.

(3) Three to 4 weeks after the final dose of vaccine, all dogs shall be bled for serum antibodies and nasal swabs shall be collected for canine parainfluenza virus isolation. On the same day, all vaccinates and controls shall be challenged with canine parainfluenza virus furnished or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(4) The rectal temperature of each dog shall be taken and the presence of respiratory or other clinical signs of canine parainfluenza virus infection noted and recorded each day for 14 consecutive days postchallenge. Nasal swabs shall be collected from each dog each day for at least 10 consecutive days postchallenge. Individual swabs shall be tested for virus isolation by culture in canine parainfluenza virus susceptible cells for at least 7 days. Results shall be evaluated according to the following criteria:

(i) If five of five controls have not remained seronegative at a final serum dilution of 1:2 during the prechallenge period, the test is a No Test and may be repeated.

(ii) If more than one vaccinate shows febrile response, respiratory or other clinical signs of canine parainfluenza virus infection; or, if less than 19 of 20 vaccinates show serum neutralization titers of 1:4 or greater; or, if there is not a significant reduction in virus isolation rate in vaccinates when compared with controls, the Master Seed is unsatisfactory.

(5) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
