
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### § 113.326 Avian Pox Vaccine.

Fowl Pox Vaccine and Pigeon Pox Vaccine shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids or embryonated chicken eggs. Only Master Seed Virus which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be used for preparing the production seed virus for vaccine production. All serials shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed Virus.

(a) The Master Seed Virus shall meet the applicable requirements prescribed in § 113.300 except paragraph (c) of this section and shall meet the requirements prescribed in this section.

(b) Each lot of Master Seed Virus shall be tested for pathogens by the chicken inoculation test prescribed in § 113.36.

(c) Each lot of Master Seed Virus shall be tested for immunogenicity and the selected virus dose to be used shall be established as follows:

(1) Fowl pox susceptible birds all of the same age and from the same source, shall be used as test birds. Twenty or more birds shall be used as vaccinates for each method of administration recommended on the label. Ten additional birds of the same age and from the same source as the vaccinates shall be held as unvaccinated controls.

(2) A geometric mean titer of the dried vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed Virus shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. Each vaccinate shall receive a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus. Five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on an aliquot of the vaccine virus to confirm the amount of virus administered to each bird used in the test. At least three appropriate (not to exceed tenfold) dilutions shall be used and the test conducted as follows:

(i) For each dilution, inoculate at least five embryos, 9 to 11 days old, on the chorioallantoic membrane with at least 0.2 ml each. Disregard all deaths during the first 24 hours post-inoculation. To be a valid test, at least four embryos in each dilution shall remain viable beyond 24 hours.

(ii) Examine the surviving embryos for evidence of infection 5 to 7 days post-inoculation.

(iii) A satisfactory titration shall have at least one dilution with between 50 and 100 percent positives and at least one dilution with between 50 and 0 percent positives.

(iv) Calculate the EIDby the Spearman-Karber or Reed-Muench method.

(3) Fourteen to twenty-one days post-vaccination, all vaccinates and controls shall be challenged by the wing web method and observed each day for 10 days. If the wing web method was used for vaccination, the opposite wing shall be used for challenge. Challenge virus shall be provided or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(4) If at least 90 percent of the controls do not develop fowl pox during the observation period, the test is a No Test and may be repeated. If at least 19 of 20, or 27 of 30, or 36 of 40 of the vaccinates in each group do not remain free from clinical signs of fowl pox during the observation period, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory.

(5) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed Virus shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(d) After a lot of Master Seed Virus has been established as prescribed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, each serial and subserial shall meet the requirements in § 113.36, in § 113.300 except paragraph (c), and in this paragraph.
