
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.326 Avian Pox Vaccine.
####### Safety test.

(1)Final container samples of completed product from each serial shall be tested. Vaccines recommended for use in birds 10 days of age or younger shall be tested in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.

(i) Each of 25 susceptible birds 5 days of age or younger, properly identified and obtained from the same source and hatch, shall be vaccinated with the equivalent of 10 doses of vaccine by each of all routes recommended on the label and observed each day for 14 days. Severe clinical signs or death shall be counted as failures. Two-stage sequential testing may be conducted if the first test (which then becomes stage one) has three failures.

(ii) The results shall be evaluated according to the following table:

(iii) If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the product, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated or, in lieu thereof, the serial declared unsatisfactory.

(iv) Vaccines not recommended for use in birds 10 days of age or younger shall be tested for safety as follows: Each of twenty-five 3- to 5-week-old, fowl-pox susceptible birds shall be vaccinated with the equivalent of 10 doses of vaccine by each of all routes recommended on the label and observed each day for 14 days. If any of the birds show severe clinical signs of disease or death during the observation period due to causes attributable to the product, the serial is unsatisfactory. If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the product, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated or, in lieu thereof, the serial declared unsatisfactory.
