
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.327 Bronchitis Vaccine.
####### Virus titer requirements.

(3)Final container samples of completed product shall be tested for virus titer using the procedure prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and in this paragraph.

(i) The Newcastle disease virus fraction of combined Newcastle-Bronchitis Vaccines shall be neutralized prior to titration of the bronchitis virus fraction. Equal parts of heat-inactivated Newcastle disease antiserum shall be mixed with each appropriate serial ten-fold dilution of the vaccine. After inactivation, embryos shall be injected with 0.2 ml each and results calculated as a 0.1 ml dose to allow for serum dilution of the vaccine. The allantoic fluids, tested as prescribed in ยง 113.34 shall not show hemagglutinating activity in the lowest dilution used in the titration.

(ii) Each bronchitis virus type shall be harvested separately and a sample of bulk harvested material shall be collected prior to mixing with the other virus type(s). Each sample shall contain not less than the minimum virus titer stated in the filed Outline of Production.

(iii) To be eligible for release, each serial and each subserial shall have a virus titer sufficiently greater than the titer of vaccine virus used in the immunogenicity test prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section to assure that when tested at any time within the expiration period, each serial and subserial shall have a virus titer of 10greater than that used in such immunogenicity test but not less than 10EIDper dose.
