
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### § 113.329 Newcastle Disease Vaccine.

Newcastle Disease Vaccine shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids or embryonated chicken eggs. Only Master Seed Virus which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be used for preparing the production seed virus for vaccine production. All serials shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed Virus.

(a) The Master Seed Virus shall meet the applicable requirements prescribed in § 113.300, except § 113.34, and the requirements prescribed in this section.

(b) Each lot of Master Seed Virus shall be tested for pathogens by the chicken embryo inoculation test prescribed in § 113.37, except that, if the test is a No Test because of a vaccine virus override, the test may be repeated and if the repeat test is a No Test for the same reason, the chicken inoculation test prescribed in § 113.36 may be conducted and the virus judged accordingly.

(c) Each lot of Master Seed Virus used for vaccine production shall be tested for immunogenicity and the selected virus dose to be used shall be established as follows:

(1) Newcastle Disease susceptible chickens, all of the same age and from the same source, shall be used. Twenty or more chickens shall be used as vaccinates for each method of administration recommended on the label. Ten additional chickens of the same age and from the same source shall be held as unvaccinated controls.

(2) A geometric mean titer of the dried vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed Virus shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. Each vaccinate shall receive a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus. Five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on an aliquot of the vaccine virus to confirm the amount of virus administered to each chicken used in the test. At least three appropriate (not to exceed tenfold) dilutions shall be used and the test conducted as follows:

(i) For each dilution, inject at least five embryos, 9 to 11 days old, in the allantoic cavity with at least 0.1 ml each. Disregard all deaths during the first 24 hours post-injection. To be a valid test, at least four embryos in each dilution shall remain viable beyond 24 hours.

(ii) Examine the surviving embryos for evidence of infection 5 to 7 days post-injection.

(iii) A satisfactory titration shall have at least one dilution with between 50 and 100 percent positives and at least one dilution with between 50 and 0 percent positives.

(iv) Calculate the EIDby the Spearman-Karber or Reed-Muench method.

(3) Twenty to twenty-eight days postvaccination, all vaccinates and controls shall be challenged intramuscularly with at least 10EIDof virus per chicken and observed each day for 14 days. Challenge virus shall be provided or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(4) If at least 90 percent of the controls do not develop clinical signs of Newcastle disease during the observation period, the test is a No Test and may be repeated. If at least 19 of 20, or 27 of 30, or 36 of 40 of the vaccinates in each group do not remain free from clinical signs of Newcastle disease during the observation period, the Master Seed Virus is unsatisfactory.

(5) A strain identity test acceptable to Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service shall be conducted.

(6) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed Virus shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(d) After a lot of Master Seed Virus has been established as prescribed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable requirements in § 113.300, except § 113.34, and the requirements prescribed in this paragraph.

(1) Final container samples from each serial shall be tested for pathogens by the chicken embryo inoculation test prescribed in § 113.37, except that, if the test is a No Test because of a vaccine virus override, the chicken inoculation test prescribed in § 113.36 may be conducted and the vaccine judged accordingly.

(2) Safety test: Final container samples of completed product from each serial shall be tested to determine whether the vaccine is safe for use in susceptible young chickens. Vaccines recommended for use in chickens 10 days of age or younger shall be tested in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.

(i) Twenty-five susceptible chickens, 5 days of age or younger, properly identified and obtained from the same source and hatch, shall be vaccinated by the eye drop method with the equivalent of 10 doses of vaccine and the chickens observed each day for 21 days. Severe respiratory signs or death shall be counted as failures. Two-stage sequential testing may be conducted if the first test (which then becomes stage one) has 3 failures.

(ii) The results shall be evaluated according to the following table:

(iii) If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the product, the test shall be declared a No Test and may be repeated.

(iv) Vaccines not recommended for use in chickens 10 days of age or younger shall be tested for safety as follows:

Each of twenty-five 3 to 5 week old Newcastle disease susceptible chickens shall be vaccinated as recommended on the label with the equivalent of ten doses and observed each day for 21 days. If any of the birds show severe clinical signs of disease or death during the observation period due to causes attributable to the product, the serial is unsatisfactory.
