
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Live Virus Vaccines
###### ยง 113.331 Bursal Disease Vaccine.
####### Safety tests.

(2)(i) Final container samples of completed product from each serial shall be tested to determine whether the vaccine is safe as follows:

(A) For vaccines intended for parenteral administration, each of twenty-five 1-day-old bursal disease susceptible chickens shall be vaccinated with the equivalent of 10 doses by subcutaneous injection.

(B) For vaccines intended for drinking water administration, each of twenty-five 4- to 5-week-old bursal disease susceptible chickens shall be vaccinated orally with the equivalent of 10 doses.

(C) Ten chickens of the same source and hatch shall be maintained in isolation as negative controls. The vaccinates and controls shall be observed each day for 21 days.

(ii) If unfavorable reactions which are attributable to the biological product occur during the observation period, the serial is unsatisfactory. If unfavorable reactions occur in more than one of the controls or if unfavorable reactions which are not attributable to the biological product occur in more than two of the vaccinates, the test shall be declared a No Test and repeated, except that, if the test is not repeated, the serial shall be unsatisfactory.
