
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Diagnostics and Reagents
###### ยง 113.407 Pullorum antigen.
####### Sensitivity requirements.

(d)(1) Each serial of antigen shall be compared with a reference antigen of known sensitivity using positive and negative chicken serum. The manufacturers' recommendations for use on the accompanying label or package insert shall be followed. The recommended time limit specified for each antigen shall be carefully observed in the test.

(2) A total of at least 12 serums shall be used. This shall include at least three definitely positive, at least three weakly positive, and at least six negative serums. At least three positive chicken serums diluted with negative chicken serum shall be used to further assay comparative sensitivity between test and reference plate antigens. All test antigens shall agree closely with the reference antigen. Tests in which variation of readings between the reference and test antigen would result in a different National Poultry Improvement Plan classification shall be regarded as unsatisfactory. No unsatisfactory tests among the six or more negative serums and not more than one unsatisfactory test among the six or more positive serums shall be permitted. All tests performed shall be included for evaluation of the sensitivity assay. In the event of an unsatisfactory test using positive serums, at least three additional definitely positive and three additional weakly positive serums shall be tested. If not more than one unsatisfactory test is obtained with the additional serums, the antigen shall be acceptable.
