
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Diagnostics and Reagents
###### ยง 113.408 Avian mycoplasma antigen.
####### Sensitivity requirements.

(f)The reactivity of each antigen shall be tested by comparing the agglutination reactions of each serial of antigen with the agglutination reactions of a standard reference antigen which is supplied by or acceptable to APHIS. A set consisting of five known positive and five known negative serums shall be used. The negative serums shall be tested against the antigens undiluted and the positive serums shall be tested against the antigens diluted 1:4 in buffer solution formulated in the same manner as the vehicle of the antigen being tested. If negative serums do not have negative reactions in this test, the serial is unsatisfactory. If the test antigen and the reference antigen do not have the same agglutination reactions with at least four of the five positive serums used, the serial is unsatisfactory.

(1) The sensitivity of Mycoplasma Gallisepticum Antigen shall be tested using a set of chicken and a set of turkey serums (the positive serums shall have varying degrees of reactivity from weakly positive to strongly positive).

(2) The sensitivity of Mycoplasma Synoviae Antigen shall be tested using chicken serums.

(3) The sensitivity of Mycoplasma Meleagridis Antigen shall be tested using turkey serums.
