
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Diagnostics and Reagents
###### ยง 113.409 Tuberculin - PPD Bovis, Intradermic.
####### M. avium.,M. avium

(ii) Sensitize one group of guinea pigs toInject each animal intramuscularly with 0.5 ml of a sterile heat-killed suspension ofStrain D-4 supplied by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

(iii) Maintain an unsensitized group as control animals.

(3) Thirty-five days post-injection, the guinea pigs shall be used for tuberculin testing.

(4) The sensitized animals and controls shall be prepared at least 4 hours prior to injection of PPD tuberculin by clipping the hair from the entire abdominal and flank areas, applying a depilatory agent for 5 to 10 minutes, then rinsing with warm water and drying.

(i) Select four sites on each guinea pig for injection of PPD tuberculin. Two sites shall be on each side of the midline and spaced a sufficient distance from each other to avoid overlapping of skin reactions.

(ii) Prepare four dilutions of the Reference PPD Tuberculin and each serial of PPD tuberculin being tested so as to contain 0.6, 1.2, 2.4, and 4.8 micrograms of protein per 0.1 ml dose. Each of the four dilutions of the same tuberculin shall be randomly assigned a site on a guinea pig.

(iii) Inject one dose of each dilution at the assigned site using a tuberculin syringe.
