
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Antibody Products
###### ยง 113.450 General requirements for antibody products.
####### Animals.,Provided,

(c)All animals used in the production of antibody products shall be healthy. Their health status shall be determined by physical examination by, or under the direct supervision of, a licensed veterinarian and by tests for infectious diseases. Such animals shall be maintained at licensed establishments:That cows maintained at Grade A dairies (or the equivalent) that are not injected with antigens for the purpose of stimulating the production of specific antibodies and that are used only for the purpose of supplying lacteal secretions are exempt from being maintained at a licensed establishment.

(1) No animal shall be used while showing clinical signs of disease. The presence of minor localized injuries or lesions (contusions, lacerations, burns, etc.) without body temperature elevation and without significant pain and distress shall not be construed as clinical evidence of disease.

(2) Before first use and on a regular basis, all animals used in the manufacture of antibody products shall be individually subjected to applicable tests for infectious diseases. Records of all test results shall be maintained. An animal which tests positive for an infectious disease shall not be used in the manufacture of antibody products. Retests shall be conducted as deemed necessary by the Administrator.

(i) Before first use, horses shall be tested as follows for:

(A) Equine infectious anemia (EIA) at a laboratory approved by APHIS.

(B) Piroplasmosis, dourine, and glanders at the National Veterinary Services Laboratories.

(C) Brucellosis at a laboratory approved by APHIS. Horses with standard agglutination titers of 1:50 or less can be used for production. Horses with standard agglutination titers equal to or greater than 1:100 may be tested by the Rivanol or card tests. Reactors to these supplemental tests shall not be used for production. Nonreactors to the supplemental tests shall be retested after 30 days. If the supplemental tests are negative and the agglutination titer has not increased, the animal may be used for production. Otherwise, the animal is unsatisfactory for this purpose.

(ii) Horses shall be retested annually for EIA and, if housed or pastured with any other species, shall be retested annually for brucellosis.

(iii) Before first use, cattle shall be tested as follows for:
