
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Antibody Products
###### ยง 113.450 General requirements for antibody products.
####### Provided,

(A) Tuberculosis by an accredited veterinarian:That cattle at Grade A dairies supplying only lacteal secretions need only be tested for tuberculosis in accordance with applicable Milk Ordinances or similar laws or regulations.

(B) Brucellosis at a laboratory approved by APHIS. Cattle with standard agglutination titers of 1:50 or less can be used for production. Cattle with standard agglutination titers equal to or greater than 1:100 may be tested by the Rivanol or card tests. Reactors to these supplemental tests shall not be used for production. Nonreactors to the supplemental tests shall be retested after 30 days. If the supplemental tests are negative and the agglutination titer has not increased, the animal may be used for production; otherwise, the animal is unsatisfactory for this purpose. Cattle at Grade A dairies supplying only lacteal secretions need not be tested individually for brucellosis if a portion of their secretions contribute to the herd milk pool tested as required by the brucellosis ring test. An animal of a herd testing positive by this test shall not be used in production.

(iv) Cattle shall be retested annually for both tuberculosis and brucellosis. Cattle at Grade A dairies supplying only lacteal secretions need only be tested for tuberculosis in accordance with applicable Milk Ordinances or similar laws or regulations. Cattle at Grade A dairies supplying only lacteal secretions need not be tested individually for brucellosis if a portion of their secretions contribute to the herd milk pool tested as required by the brucellosis ring test. An animal of a herd testing positive by this test shall not be used in production.

(v) For other species, appropriate tests and the frequency with which they are applied shall be specified in the filed Outline of Production for the product.

(vi) If a positive result is obtained on any prescribed test, the positive animal(s) shall be removed from the herd and the remaining animals retested. Production shall not be renewed until a negative herd test is obtained not less than 28 days following removal of the positive animal(s).

(vii) Negative animals shall be maintained separate and apart from untested or positive animals of any species. Production animals shall not be used for any other purpose, such as testing, work, or recreation.
