
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Antibody Products
###### ยง 113.450 General requirements for antibody products.
####### Total bacterial count.

(iv)One milliliter of each rehydrated sample, undiluted or diluted as prescribed in the Outline of Production, shall be pipetted into a 100 x 15 mm petri dish and 10-15 ml of tryptone glucose extract agar at 45-50 &#xB0;C added. The plate shall be manipulated to coat its entirety with the agar-sample mixture and allowed to stand until the mixture solidifies. The plate shall then be incubated at 35 &#xB0;C for 48 hours. A positive control plate and a negative control plate shall be prepared at the same time and in the same manner as the plates containing samples of the serial. All plates shall be examined at the end of the incubation period. If growth is observed on the negative control plate, or no growth is observed on the positive control plate, the test shall be considered a No Test and may be repeated. If the average number of bacterial colonies on the 10 plates containing samples of the serial exceeds that specified in the filed Outline of Production for the product, one retest to rule out faulty technique may be conducted on samples from 20 final containers. If the average number of bacterial colonies on the retest plates exceeds that specified in the filed Outline of Production for the product, or if a retest is not initiated within 21 days of the completion of the original test, the serial or subserial is unsatisfactory.
