
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Antibody Products
###### ยง 113.454 Clostridium Perfringens Type C Antitoxin.
####### Diluent.

(vi)The solution used to make proper dilutions prescribed in this test. Such solution shall be made by dissolving 1 gram of peptone and 0.25 gram of sodium chloride in each 100 ml of distilled water; adjusting the pH to 7.2; autoclaving at 250 &#xB0;F. for 25 minutes; and storing at 4 &#xB0;C. until used.

(2) The antitoxin content of the test sample shall be determined as follows:

(i) Make a dilution of Standard Antitoxin to contain 10 International Units of antitoxin per ml.

(ii) Make one dilution of Standard Toxin to contain 10 Ldoses per ml and make a second dilution of Standard Toxin to contain 10 Ldoses per ml.

(iii) Dilute 1 ml of the test sample with 49 ml of diluent and combine 1 ml of this dilution with 1 ml of the Standard Toxin diluted to contain 10 Ldoses.

(iv) Combine 10 International Units of Standard Antitoxin with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin and combine 10 International Units of Standard Antitoxin with 10 Ldoses of diluted Standard Toxin.

(v) Neutralize all toxin-antitoxin mixtures at room temperature for 1 hour and hold in ice water until injections of mice can be made.

(vi) Five Swiss white mice, each weighing 16-20 grams, shall be used for each toxin-antitoxin mixture. A dose of 0.2 ml shall be injected intravenously into each mouse. Conclude the test 24 hours post-injection and record all deaths.
