
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 113 - STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
##### Antibody Products
###### ยง 113.499 Products for treatment of failure of passive transfer.
####### Qualification of an IgG Reference Product.

(a)An IgG Reference Product (reference) shall be a serial of product that is manufactured according to the filed Outline of Production, properly qualified, and used to assess the potency of subsequent product serials, as described in paragraph (c) below. The reference shall be qualified as follows:

(1) At least 20 newborn, colostrum-deprived animals of the species for which the product is recommended shall be randomly selected.

(2) Blood samples shall be taken from each animal.

(3) Each animal shall be administered one dose of reference by the recommended route and shall be observed for 24 hours.

(i) Any adverse reactions shall be recorded.

(ii) The dosage of reference administered to each animal shall be in accordance with label directions. Label directions may indicate a single dosage regardless of weight, in which case the animals in the study shall be at or near the maximum weight for neonates of the species.

(4) After 24 hours, blood samples shall be taken from each animal.

(5) Pretreatment and post treatment serum IgG concentrations shall be concurrently determined for each animal using a radial immunodiffusion (RID) method acceptable to APHIS and described in the filed Outline of Production for the product.

(6) Concurrently, using the same method, five IgG measurements shall be made on an IgG Species Standard supplied or approved by APHIS. The IgG Species Standard shall be a preparation that contains IgG specific for the species in question at a concentration acceptable to APHIS.

(7) For an IgG Reference Product to be satisfactory, all animals used to qualify the reference must remain free of unfavorable product-related reactions and at least 90 percent of the paired serum samples must reflect an increase in IgG concentration (posttreatment minus pretreatment concentration) equal to or greater than the IgG concentration of the IgG Species Standard.
