
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 114 - PRODUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS
##### § 114.2 Products not prepared under license.
###### Provided,

(c) A biological product produced in a USDA-licensed establishment shall be produced under a U.S. Veterinary Biological Product License or a license granted by a State under § 107.2 (referred to as a State biological product license and the products prepared pursuant thereto as State-licensed biological products, including autogenous biologics), but not under both a U.S. Veterinary Biological Product License and a State biological product license. Before a U.S. Veterinary Biological Product License (including a conditional license) is issued, the licensee shall relinquish its State license for that product:That autogenous biologics shall not be subject to this provision when they are prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(1) State-licensed biological products (including autogenous biologics) shall only be distributed or shipped intrastate, must not bear a U.S. Veterinary Biologics Establishment License Number, and must not otherwise be represented in any manner as having met the requirements for a U.S. Veterinary Biological Product license. Labeling of State- and USDA-licensed biological products produced in the same establishment must be distinctly different in color and design.

(2) All biological products in USDA-licensed establishments, whether licensed by USDA or by the State, shall be prepared only in locations indicated in legends filed in accordance with 9 CFR part 108. A description of each State-licensed product must be filed with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service as part of the blueprint legends and must be sufficient for Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to determine any risk to the production of other products in the licensed establishment and to determine that adequate procedures are followed to prevent contamination during production.

(3) Records in such establishments must be maintained in accordance with §§ 116.1 and 116.2 of this subchapter and shall include all products licensed by the State or USDA.

(4) Reports prescribed in § 116.5 of this subchapter for USDA-licensed establishments shall be submitted for all veterinary biological products in the establishment.

(5) Under the following conditions, an autogenous biologic may be produced in a USDA-licensed establishment under either a State or U.S. Veterinary Biological Product License:
