
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 114 - PRODUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS
##### ยง 114.10 Antibiotics as preservatives.
###### Provided,

(1) The antibiotic level of a specified individual antibiotic in one ml. of a biological product, when prepared as recommended for use, shall not exceed the amounts listed in this paragraph:That in the case a desiccated biological product is to be used with an indefinite quantity of water or other menstruum, the determination shall be based on 30 ml. per 1,000 dose vial or equivalent.

(2) Except as prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section, only one antibiotic shall be used as a preservative in a biological product. The kind and maximum amount per ml. of such antibiotic shall be restricted to:

(c) Permitted combinations:

(1) Penicillin and streptomycin.

(2) Either amphotericin B or nystatin, but not both, may be used with one of the other antibiotics listed in paragraph (b) of this section, or with a combination of penicillin and streptomycin, or with a combination of polymyxin B and neomycin.

(3) The maximum amount of each antibiotic in a combination shall be the amount prescribed for such antibiotic in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Antibiotics used in virus seed stock purification are not restricted as to kind or amounts provided carryover into the final product is controlled and specified in outlines of production.
