
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 115 - INSPECTIONS
##### ยง 115.2 Inspections of biological products.

(a) Any biological product, the container of which bears a United States veterinary license number or a United States veterinary permit number or other mark required by these regulations, may be inspected at any time or place. If, as a result of such inspection, it appears that any such product is worthless, contaminated, dangerous, or harmful, the Secretary shall give notice to stop distribution and sale to the manufacturer (licensee) or importer (permittee) and may proceed against such product pursuant to the provisions of part 118 of this subchapter.

(b) When notified to stop distribution and sale of a serial or subserial of a veterinary biological product by the Secretary, veterinary biologics licensees or permittees shall:

(1) Stop the preparation, distribution, sale, barter, exchange, shipment, or importation of the affected serial(s) or subserial(s) of any such veterinary biological product pending further instructions from APHIS.

(2) Immediately, but no later than 2 days, send stop distribution and sale notifications to any jobbers, wholesalers, dealers, foreign consignees, or other persons known to have any such veterinary biological product in their possession, which instruct them to stop the preparation, distribution, sale, barter, exchange, shipment, or importation of any such veterinary biological product. All notifications shall be documented in writing by the licensee or permittee.

(3) Account for the remaining quantity of each serial(s) or subserial(s) of any such veterinary biological product at each location in the distribution channel known to the manufacturer (licensee) or importer (permittee).

(4) When required by the Administrator, submit complete and accurate reports of all notifications concerning stop distribution and sale actions to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service pursuant to ยง 116.5 of this subchapter.

(c) Unless and until the Secretary shall otherwise direct, no persons so notified shall thereafter sell, barter, or exchange any such product in any place under the jurisdiction of the United States or ship or deliver for shipment any such product in or from any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia. However, failure to receive such notice shall not excuse any person from compliance with the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act.
