
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 121 - POSSESSION, USE, AND TRANSFER OF SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
##### ยง 121.5 Exemptions for VS select agents and toxins.
###### et seq.

(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 131).

(e) The Administrator may exempt from the requirements of this part an experimental product that is, bears, or contains a VS select agent or toxin if such product is being used in an investigation authorized by any Federal law and the Administrator determines that additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect animal health or animal products. To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit APHIS/CDC Form 5. A written decision granting or denying the exemption will be issued. The applicant must notify APHIS when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.

(f) In addition to the exemptions provided in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the Administrator may grant a specific exemption upon a showing of good cause and upon his or her determination that such exemption is consistent with protecting animal health or animal products. An individual or entity may request in writing an exemption from the requirements of this part. If granted, such exemptions are valid for a maximum of 3 years; thereafter, an individual or entity must request a new exemption. If a request for exemption is denied, an individual or entity may request reconsideration in writing to the Administrator. The request for reconsideration must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the individual or entity relies to show that the exemption was wrongfully denied. The Administrator will grant or deny the request for reconsideration as promptly as circumstances allow and will state, in writing, the reasons for the decision.
