
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 121 - POSSESSION, USE, AND TRANSFER OF SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
##### ยง 121.6 Exemptions for overlap select agents and toxins.
###### et seq.

(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 131).

(d) After consultation with the HHS Secretary, the Administrator may exempt from the requirements of this part an investigational product that is, bears, or contains an overlap select agent or toxin if such product is being used in an investigation authorized by any Federal law and the Administrator determines that additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect animal health or animal products.

(1) To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit APHIS/CDC Form 5.

(2) The Administrator will make a determination regarding an exemption within 14 calendar days after receipt of the application and notification that the investigation has been authorized under a Federal law. A written decision granting or denying the exemption will be issued.

(3) The applicant must notify APHIS or CDC when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.

(e) If it is necessary to respond to a domestic or foreign agricultural emergency involving an overlap select agent or toxin, the Administrator may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for up to 30 calendar days. The Administrator may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 days.

(f) Upon request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for up to 30 calendar days if the Secretary of Health and Human Services has granted an exemption for a public health emergency involving an overlap select agent or toxin. The Administrator may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 days.
