
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 121 - POSSESSION, USE, AND TRANSFER OF SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
##### ยง 121.9 Responsible official.
###### Bacillus anthracis,,Burkholderia mallei,,Burkholderia pseudomallei,

(1) The identification of any of the following select agents or toxins must be immediately reported by telephone, facsimile, or email: African horse sickness virus, African swine fever virus, avian influenza virus (highly pathogenic),classical swine fever virus, foot-and-mouth disease virus, virulent Newcastle disease virus, rinderpest virus, or swine vesicular disease virus. The final disposition of the agent or toxin must be reported by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within 7 calendar days after identification. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.

(2) To report the identification and final disposition of any other select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 7 calendar days after identification. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.

(3) Less stringent reporting may be required during agricultural emergencies or outbreaks, or in endemic areas.

(d) The responsible official must report the identification and final disposition of any select agent or toxin contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing. To report the identification and final disposition of a select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 calendar days of receipt of the agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.
