
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Organisms and Vectors
#### PART 121 - POSSESSION, USE, AND TRANSFER OF SELECT AGENTS AND TOXINS
##### ยง 121.19 Notification of theft, loss, or release.

(a) An individual or entity must immediately notify APHIS or CDC upon discovery of the theft or loss of a select agent or toxin. Thefts or losses must be reported even if the select agent or toxin is subsequently recovered or the responsible parties are identified.

(1) The theft or loss of a select agent or toxin must be reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The following information must be provided:

(i) The name of the select agent or toxin and any identifying information (e.g., strain or other characterization information);

(ii) An estimate of the quantity stolen or lost;

(iii) An estimate of the time during which the theft or loss occurred;

(iv) The location (building, room) from which the theft or loss occurred; and

(v) The list of Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies to which the individual or entity reported, or intends to report, the theft or loss.

(2) A completed APHIS/CDC Form 3 must be submitted within 7 calendar days.

(b) An individual or entity must immediately notify APHIS or CDC upon discovery of a release of a select agent or toxin causing occupational exposure or a release of a select agent or toxin outside of the primary barriers of the biocontainment area.

(1) The release of a select agent or toxin must be reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The following information must be provided:

(i) The name of the select agent or toxin and any identifying information (e.g., strain or other characterization information);

(ii) An estimate of the quantity released;

(iii) The time and duration of the release;

(iv) The environment into which the release occurred (e.g., in building or outside of building, waste system);

(v) The location (building, room) from which the release occurred; and

(vi) The number of individuals potentially exposed at the entity;

(vii) Actions taken to respond to the release; and

(viii) Hazards posed by the release.

(2) A completed APHIS/CDC Form 3 must be submitted within 7 calendar days.
