
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter F - User Fees
#### PART 130 - USER FEES
##### § 130.3 User fees for exclusive use of space at APHIS Animal Import Centers.

(a)(1) An importer may request to exclusively occupy a space at an APHIS animal import center. The user fees for spaces at APHIS animal import centers are listed in the following table. The person for whom the service is provided and the person requesting the service are jointly and severally liable for payment of these user fees in accordance with §§ 130.50 and 130.51.

(2) Any importer who occupies space for more than 30 days must pay 1/30th of the 30-day fee for each additional day or part of a day. The person for whom the service is provided and the person requesting the service are jointly and severally liable for any additional charges.

(3) Unless the importer cancels the reservation for exclusive use of space in time to receive a refund of the reservation fee in accordance with 9 CFR 93.103, 93.204, 93.304, 93.404, or 93.504, as appropriate, the 30-day user fee will be effective as of the first day for which the importer has reserved the space, regardless of whether the user occupies the space on that date or not.

(b) Users must provide APHIS personnel at the Animal Import Center, at the time they make a reservation for quarantine space, with the following information:

(1) Species of animals and birds to be quarantined;

(2) Ages of animals and birds to be quarantined; and

(3) Sizes of animals and birds to be quarantined.

(c)(1) APHIS personnel at the Animal Importer Center will determine, based on the information provided by the importer under paragraph (b) of this section, and on routine husbandry needs, the maximum number of animals and birds permitted in the requested building.

(2) If the number of animals and birds requested by the importer can be housed in the space requested, as determined by APHIS personnel at the Animal Import Center, but two animal health technicians cannot fulfill the routine husbandry needs of the number of animals or birds proposed by the importer, then the importer must pay for additional services on an hourly basis, or reduce the number of animals or birds to be quarantined to a number which APHIS personnel at the Animal Import Center determine can be handled by two animal health technicians.

(3) If the importer requests additional services, then the user fees for any service rendered by an APHIS representative will be calculated at the hourly rate user fee listed in § 130.30, for each employee required to perform the service.

(d) The importer must provide feed, or pay for it on an actual cost basis, including cost of delivery to the Animal Import Center.
