
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter F - User Fees
#### PART 130 - USER FEES
##### § 130.20 User fees for endorsing export certificates.

(a) User fees for the endorsement of export health certificates that do not require the verification of tests or vaccinations are listed in the following table. The user fees apply to each export health certificateendorsed for the following types of animals, birds, or animal products, regardless of the number of animals, birds, or animal products covered by the certificate. The person for whom the service is provided and the person requesting the service are jointly and severally liable for payment of these user fees in accordance with §§ 130.50 and 130.51.

(b)(1) User fees for the endorsement of export health certificates that require the verification of tests or vaccinations are listed in the following table. The user fees apply to each export health certificateendorsed for animals and birds depending on the number of animals or birds covered by the certificate and the number of tests or vaccinations required. However, there will be a maximum user fee of 12 times the hourly rate user fee listed in § 130.30(a) of this part for any single shipment. The person for whom the service is provided and the person requesting the service are jointly and severally liable for payment of these user fees in accordance with the provisions in §§ 130.50 and 130.51.

(2) If an export certificate covers more than one animal, but the number of tests required for different animals are not the same, the user fee for the certificate is the fee which would be due if all the animals on the certificate required the same number of tests as the animal which requires the greatest number of tests.

(c) The user fees prescribed in this section will not apply to an export health certificate if the export health certificate is prepared for endorsement completely at the site of the inspection by an APHIS veterinarian in the course of performing inspection or supervision services for the animals listed on the certificate, and an APHIS user fee is payable under § 130.30 of this part for the inspection or supervision services performed by the veterinarian.

(d) If a service must be conducted on a Sunday or holiday or at any other time outside the normal tour of duty of the employee, then reimbursable overtime, as provided for in part 97 of this chapter, must be paid for each service, in addition to the user fee listed in this section.
