
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 145.2 Administration.

(a) The Department cooperates through a Memorandum of Understanding with Official State Agencies in the administration of the Plan. In the Memorandum of Understanding, the Official State Agency must designate a contact representative to serve as a liaison between the Service and the Official State Agency.

(b) The administrative procedures and decisions of the Official State Agency are subject to review by the Service. The Official State Agency shall carry out the administration of the Plan within the State according to the applicable provisions of the Plan and the Memorandum of Understanding.

(c) An Official State Agency may accept for participation an affiliated flock located in another State under a mutual understanding and agreement, in writing, between the two Official State Agencies regarding conditions of participation and supervision.

(d) The Official State Agency of any State may, except as limited by ยง 145.3(e), adopt regulations applicable to the administration of the Plan in such State further defining the provisions of the Plan or establishing higher standards compatible with the Plan.

(e) An authorized laboratory of the National Poultry Improvement Plan will conduct tests in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter when determining the status of a participating flock with respect to an official Plan classification.
