
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 145.3 Participation.

(a) The National Poultry Improvement Plan is a cooperative Federal-State-Industry program through which new or existing diagnostic technology can be effectively applied to improve poultry and poultry products by controlling or eliminating specific poultry diseases. The Plan consists of programs that identify States, flocks, hatcheries, dealers, and slaughter plants that meet specific disease control standards specified in the Plan. Participants shall maintain records to demonstrate that they adhere to the disease control programs in which they participate.

(b) Any person producing or dealing in products may participate in the Plan when he has demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the Official State Agency, that his facilities, personnel, and practices are adequate for carrying out the applicable provisions of the Plan, and has signed an agreement with the Official State Agency to comply with the general and the applicable specific provisions of the Plan and any regulations of the Official State Agency under ยง 145.2. Affiliated flockowners may participate without signing an agreement with the Official State Agency.

(c) Each participant shall comply with the Plan throughout the operating year of the Official State Agency, or until released by such Agency.

(d) A participant in any State shall participate with all of his poultry hatching egg supply flocks and hatchery operations within such State. The participant shall report to the Official State Agency on VS Form 9-2 (formerly NPIP Form 3B) or through other appropriate means each breeding flock before the birds reach 24 weeks of age or, in the case of ostriches, emus, rheas, and cassowaries, before the birds reach 20 months of age. This report will include:

(1) Name and address of flockowner;

(2) Flock location and designation;

(3) Type: Primary or Multiplier;

(4) Breed, variety, strain, or trade name of stock;

(5) Source of males;

(6) Source of females;

(7) Number of birds in the flock; and

(8) Intended classification of flock.

(e) To ensure that Plan diseases are not spread, flocks must be qualified for their intended Plan classifications before being moved into breeder production facilities.

(f) No person shall be compelled by the Official State Agency to qualify products for any of the other classifications described in ยง 145.10 as a condition of qualification for the U.S. Pullorum-Typhoid Clean classification.

(g) Participation in the Plan shall entitle the participant to use the Plan emblem reproduced below:
