
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 145.14 Testing.
####### For Pullorum-Typhoid.

(a)(1) The official blood tests for pullorum-typhoid shall be the standard tube agglutination test, the microagglutination test, the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test (ELISA), or the rapid serum test for all poultry; and the stained antigen, rapid whole-blood test for all poultry except turkeys. Official blood tests must be conducted in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter or according to literature provided by the producer. Only antigens approved by the Department and of the polyvalent type shall be used for the rapid whole-blood and tube agglutination tests. Each serial of tube antigen shall be submitted by the antigen producer to the Department for approval upon manufacture and once a year thereafter as long as antigen from that serial continues to be made available for use. All microtest antigens and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay reagents shall also be approved by the Department.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) There shall be an interval of at least 21 days between any official blood test and any previous test with pullorum-typhoid antigen.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) The official blood test shall include the testing of a sample of blood from each bird in the flock: Provided, That under specified conditions (see applicable provisions of §§ 145.23, 145.33, 145.43, 145.53, 145.63, 145.73, 145.83, and 145.93) the testing of a portion or sample of the birds may be used in lieu of testing each bird.

(6) Poultry from flocks undergoing qualification testing for participation in the Plan that have a positive reaction to an official blood test named in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be evaluated for pullorum-typhoid as follows:

(i) Serum samples that react on rapid serum test or enzyme-labeled immunosorbent assay test (ELISA), or blood from birds that react on the stained antigen, rapid whole-blood test for all birds except turkeys, shall be tested with either the standard tube agglutination test or the microagglutination test.

(ii) Reactors to the standard tube agglutination test (in dilutions of 1:50 or greater) or the microagglutination test (in dilutions of 1:40 or greater) shall be submitted to an authorized laboratory for bacteriological examination. If there are more than four reactors in a flock, a minimum of four reactors shall be submitted to the authorized laboratory; if the flock has four or fewer reactors, all of the reactors must be submitted. Bacteriological examination must be conducted in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter. When reactors are submitted to the authorized laboratory within 10 days of the date of reading an official blood test named in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, and the bacteriological examination fails to demonstrate pullorum-typhoid infection, the Official State Agency shall presume that the flock has no pullorum-typhoid reactors.

(iii) If a flock owner does not wish to submit reactors for bacteriological examination, then the reactors shall be isolated and retested within 30 days using an official blood test named in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If this retest is positive, additional examination of the reactors and flock will be performed in accordance with paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section. During this 30-day period, the flock must be maintained under a security system, specified or approved by the Official State Agency, that will prevent physical contact with other birds and assure that personnel, equipment, and supplies that could be a source of pullorum-typhoid spread are sanitized.
