
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 145.14 Testing.
####### S. pullorum,S. gallinarum

(i) The taking of blood samples-performed by or in the presence of a State Inspector-from all birds on premises exposed to birds, equipment, supplies, or personnel from the primary breeding flock during the period when the State Inspector determined that exposure tooroccurred.

(ii) The banding of all birds of these premises-performed or physically supervised by a State Inspector-in order to identify any bird that tests positive; and

(iii) The testing of blood samples at an authorized laboratory using an official blood test named in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(8) All domesticated fowl, except waterfowl, on the farm of the participant shall either be properly tested to meet the same standards as the participating flock or these birds and their eggs shall be separated from the participating flock and its eggs.

(9) All tests for pullorum-typhoid in flocks participating in or candidates for participation in the Plan shall be reported to the Official State Agency within 10 days following the completion of such tests. All reactors shall be considered in determining the classification of the flock.

(10) Any drug, for which there is scientific evidence of masking the test reaction or hindering the bacteriological recovery of Salmonella organisms, shall not be fed or administered to poultry within 3 weeks prior to a test or bacteriological examination upon which a Salmonella classification is based.

(11) When suitable evidence, as determined by the Official State Agency or the State Animal Disease Control Official, indicates that baby or started poultry produced by participating hatcheries are infected with organisms for which the parent flock received an official control classification and this evidence indicates that the infection was transmitted from the parent flock, the Official State Agency may, at its discretion, require additional testing of the flock involved. If infection is found in the parent flock, its classification shall be suspended until the flock is requalified under the requirements for the classification. Furthermore, the Official State Agency may require that the hatching eggs from such flocks be removed from the incubator and destroyed prior to hatching. When Salmonella organisms are isolated from a specimen which originated in a participating hatchery, the Official State Agency shall attempt to locate the source of the infection. The results of the investigation and the action taken to eliminate the infection shall be reported by the Official State Agency to the Service.
