
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart E - Special Provisions for Hobbyist and Exhibition Poultry, and Raised-for-Release Waterfowl Breeding Flocks and Products
###### § 145.52 Participation.

Participating flocks of hobbyist and exhibition poultry, raised-for-release waterfowl, and the eggs, chicks, started, and mature poultry produced from them shall comply with the applicable general provisions of subpart A of this part and the special provisions of this subpart. The special provisions that apply to meat-type waterfowl flocks are found in subpart I of this part. The special provisions that apply to game bird flocks are found in subpart J of this part.

(a) Started poultry shall lose their identity under Plan terminology when not maintained by Plan participants under the conditions prescribed in § 145.5(a).

(b) Hatching eggs produced by primary breeding flocks shall be fumigated or otherwise sanitized in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter.

(c) It is recommended that waterfowl flocks and gallinaceous flocks be kept separate.

(d) Subject to the approval of the Service and the Official State Agencies in the importing and exporting States, participating flocks may report poultry sales to importing States by using either VS Form 9-3, "Report of Sales of Hatching Eggs, Chicks, and Poults," or by using a hatchery invoice form (9-3I) approved by the Official State Agency and the Service to identify poultry sales to clients. If the selling hatchery uses the 9-3I form, the following information must be included on the form:

(1) The form number "9-3I", printed or stamped on the invoice;

(2) The hatchery name and address;

(3) The date of shipment;

(4) The hatchery invoice number;

(5) The purchaser name and address;

(6) The quantity of products sold;

(7) The NPIP hatchery approval number of the shipping hatchery;

(8) Identification of the products by bird variety or by NPIP stock code as listed in the NPIP APHIS 91-55-078 appendix; and

(9) The appropriate NPIP illustrative design in § 145.10. One of the designs in § 145.10(b) or (g) must be used. The following information must be provided in or near the NPIP design:

(i) The NPIP State number and NPIP hatchery approval number; and

(ii) The NPIP classification for which product is qualified (e.g., U.S. Pullorum-Typhoid Clean).

(e) Any nutritive material provided to baby poultry must be free of the avian pathogens that are officially represented in the Plan disease classifications listed in § 145.10.

(f) All participating raised-for-release waterfowl flocks, regardless of whether they are breeders or non-breeders, shall be enrolled under this subpart.
