
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart G - Special Provisions for Primary Egg-Type Chicken Breeding Flocks and Products
###### ยง 145.73 Terminology and classification; flocks and products.
####### Provided,

(B) Mash feed may contain no animal protein other than an APPI animal protein product supplement manufactured in pellet form and crumbled:That mash feed may contain nonpelleted APPI animal protein product supplements if the finished feed is treated with a salmonella control product approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

(iii) Feed shall be stored and transported in such a manner as to prevent possible contamination;

(iv) The flock is maintained in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter with respect to flock sanitation, cleaning and disinfection, and Salmonella isolation, sanitation, and management. Rodents and other pests should be effectively controlled;

(v) Environmental samples shall be collected from the flock by an Authorized Agent, in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter, when the flock is 2 to 4 weeks of age. The samples shall be examined bacteriologically for group D salmonella at an authorized laboratory. Cultures from positive samples shall be serotyped. The Authorized Agent shall also collect samples every 30 days after the first sample has been collected.

(vi) Hatching eggs are collected as quickly as possible and are handled as described in ยง 147.22 of this subchapter and are sanitized or fumigated (see ยง 147.25 of this subchapter).

(vii) Hatching eggs produced by the flock are incubated in a hatchery whose sanitation is maintained in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter and sanitized either by a procedure approved by the Official State Agency or in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter.
