
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart H - Special Provisions for Primary Meat-Type Chicken Breeding Flocks and Products
###### ยง 145.84 Terminology and classification; compartments.
####### Definition and description of the physical components or establishments of the defined compartment.

(iii)The primary breeder company must provide documentation establishing that the defined compartment is epidemiologically separated from other poultry and bird populations. The documentation must be approved by the Official State Agency and the Service as indicating adequate epidemiological separation to maintain the compartment's separate health status with respect to H5/H7 AI and ND. The documentation should include descriptions of:

(A) The physical and spatial factors that separate the compartment from surrounding bird populations and affect the biosecurity status of the compartment.

(B) Relevant environmental factors that may affect exposure of the birds to AI and ND.

(C) The functional boundary and fencing that are used to control access to the compartment.

(D) Facilities and procedures to prevent access by wild birds and to provide separation from other relevant hosts.

(E) The relevant infrastructural factors that may affect exposure to AI and ND, including the construction and design of buildings or physical components, cleaning and disinfection of buildings and physical components between production groups with quality assurance verification, cleaning and disinfection of equipment, and introduction of equipment or material into the compartment.
