
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart H - Special Provisions for Primary Meat-Type Chicken Breeding Flocks and Products
###### ยง 145.84 Terminology and classification; compartments.
####### Definition and description of the functional relationships between components of the defined compartment.

(iv)Functional relationships between components of the compartment include traffic movement and flow at and among premises, personnel movement at and among premises, exposure to live bird populations, and any other factors that could affect biosecurity of the compartment. All physical components of the compartment must be maintained in compliance with hygiene and biosecurity procedures for poultry primary breeding flocks and hatcheries in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter. In addition, the company must provide a biosecurity plan for the compartment and all included components. The biosecurity plan should include but not be limited to:

(A) Requirements that company employees and contract growers limit their contact with live birds outside the compartment.

(B) An education and training program for company employees and contractors.

(C) Standard operating procedures for company employees, contractors, and outside maintenance personnel.

(D) Requirements for company employees and non-company personnel who visit any premises within the compartment.

(E) Company veterinary infrastructure to ensure flock monitoring and disease diagnosis and control measures.

(F) Policies for management of vehicles and equipment used within the compartment to connect the various premises.

(G) Farm site requirements (location, layout, and construction).

(H) Pest management program.

(I) Cleaning and disinfection process.

(J) Requirements for litter and dead bird removal and/or disposal.
