
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Meat-Type Waterfowl Breeding Flocks and Products
###### ยง 145.93 Terminology and classification; flocks and products.
####### U.S. H5/H7 Avian Influenza Clean.

(c)This program is intended to be the basis from which the breeding-hatchery industry may conduct a program for the prevention and control of the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza. It is intended to determine the presence of the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza in meat-type waterfowl breeding flocks through routine surveillance of each participating breeding flock. A flock, and the hatching eggs and baby poultry produced from it, will qualify for this classification when the Official State Agency determines that it has met one of the following requirements:

(1) It is a primary breeding flock in which a minimum of 30 birds have been tested negative to the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza as provided in ยง 145.14(d) when more than 4 months of age. To retain this classification:

(i) A sample of at least 30 birds must be tested and found to be negative at intervals of 90 days; or

(ii) A sample of fewer than 30 birds may be tested, and found to be negative, at any one time if all pens are equally represented and a total of 30 birds are tested within each 90-day period.

(2) It is a multiplier breeding flock in which a minimum of 30 birds have been tested negative to the H5/H7 subtypes of avian influenza as provided in ยง 145.14(d) when more than 4 months of age. To retain this classification:

(i) A sample of at least 30 birds must be tested negative at intervals of 180 days; or

(ii) A sample of fewer than 30 birds may be tested, and found to be negative, at any one time if all pens are equally represented and a total of 30 birds are tested within each 180-day period.

(3) A sample of at least 11 birds must be tested and found negative to H5/H7 avian influenza within 21 days prior to movement to slaughter.
