
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart I - Special Provisions for Meat-Type Waterfowl Breeding Flocks and Products
###### ยง 145.93 Terminology and classification; flocks and products.
####### U.S. Salmonella Monitored.,Salmonella

(d)This program is intended to be the basis from which the breeding-hatching industry may conduct a program for the prevention and control of salmonellosis. It is intended to reduce the incidence oforganisms in hatching eggs and day-old waterfowl through an effective and practical sanitation program at the breeder farm and in the hatchery. This will afford other segments of the poultry industry an opportunity to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in their products.

(1) A flock and the hatching eggs and day-old waterfowl produced from it must meet the following requirements, as determined by the Official State Agency, to be eligible for this classification:

(i) The flock is maintained in compliance with isolation, sanitation, and management procedures for Salmonella in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter.

(ii) If feed contains animal protein, the protein products must have been heated throughout to a minimum temperature of 190 &#xB0;F or above, or to a minimum temperature of 165 &#xB0;F for at least 20 minutes, or to a minimum temperature of 184 &#xB0;F under 70 lbs. pressure during the manufacturing process.

(iii) Feed shall be stored and transported in a manner that prevents contamination.

(iv) Waterfowl shall be hatched in a hatchery whose sanitation is maintained in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter and sanitized or fumigated in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter.

(v) An Authorized Agent shall take environmental samples from the hatchery every 30 days, i.e., meconium or box liner paper. An authorized laboratory for Salmonella shall examine the samples bacteriologically.

(vi) An Authorized Agent shall take environmental samples in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter from each flock at 4 months of age and every 30 days thereafter. An authorized laboratory for Salmonella shall examine the environmental samples bacteriologically.
