
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 145 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR BREEDING POULTRY
##### Subpart J - Special Provisions for Egg/Meat-Type Game Bird and Raised-for-Release Game Bird Breeding Flocks and Products
###### § 145.102 Participation.
####### Mature bird.

(4)A bird that is fully colored and has reached the average maximum size specific to each species.

(c) Products shall lose their identity under Plan terminology when not maintained by Plan participants under the conditions prescribed in § 145.5(a).

(d) Hatching eggs produced by breeding flocks shall be nest clean, fumigated, or otherwise sanitized in accordance with part 147 of this subchapter.

(e) It is recommended that gallinaceous flocks and waterfowl flocks be kept separate.

(f) Any nutritive material provided to baby poultry must be free of the avian pathogens that are officially represented in the Plan disease classifications listed in § 145.10.

(g) A flock of game birds that are not breeders, but are located on the same premise as game bird breeders, shall be covered under the same NPIP hatchery approval number as long as the appropriate testing requirements have been met.

(h) All participating raised-for-release game bird flocks, regardless of whether they are breeders or non-breeders, shall be enrolled under this subpart.

(i) A breeder, hatchery, or grower may also be a dealer without being categorized as a dealer. To resell products under the assigned NPIP number and avoid losing NPIP flock classifications, products must be purchased from an NPIP participant with equal or greater classifications or from a flock with equivalent or greater testing requirements under official supervision.

(j) Subject to the approval of the Service and the Official State Agencies in the importing and exporting States, participating flocks may report poultry sales to importing States by using either VS Form 9-3, "Report of Sales of Hatching Eggs, Chicks, and Poults," or by using an invoice form (9-3I) approved by the Official State Agency and the Service to identify poultry sales to clients. If the 9-3I form is used, the following information must be included on the form:

(1) The form number "9-3I", printed or stamped on the invoice;

(2) The seller name and address;

(3) The date of shipment;

(4) The invoice number;

(5) The purchaser name and address;

(6) The quantity of products sold;

(7) Identification of the products by bird variety or by NPIP stock code as listed in the NPIP APHIS 91-55-078 appendix; and

(8) The appropriate NPIP illustrative design in § 145.10. One of the designs in § 145.10(b) or (g) must be used. The following information must be provided in or near the NPIP design:

(i) The NPIP State number and NPIP approval number; and
