
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 146 - NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR COMMERCIAL POULTRY
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 146.4 General provisions for all participating flocks and slaughter plants.

(a) Records that establish the identity of products handled shall be maintained in a manner satisfactory to the Official State Agency.

(b) Material that is used to advertise products shall be subject to inspection by the Official State Agency at any time.

(c) Advertising must be in accordance with the Plan, and applicable rules and regulations of the Official State Agency and the Federal Trade Commission. A participant advertising products as being of any official classification may include in their advertising reference to associated or franchised slaughter or production facilities only when such facilities produce products of the same classification.

(d) Each participant shall be assigned a permanent approval number by the Service. This number, prefaced by the numerical code of the State, will be the official approval number of the participant and may be used on each certificate, invoice, shipping label, or other document used by the participant in the sale of the participant's products. Each Official State Agency which requires an approval number for out-of-State participants to ship into its State shall honor this number.
