
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 147 - AUXILIARY PROVISIONS ON NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN
##### Subpart E - Procedure for Changing National Poultry Improvement Plan
###### ยง 147.43 General Conference Committee.
####### i.e.

(4) Consider each proposal submitted as provided in ยง 147.44 and make recommendations to subpart Committees and the Conference. Meet jointly with the NPIP Technical Committee and consider the technical aspects and accuracy of each proposal. Recommend whether new proposals (, proposals that have not been submitted as provided in ยง 147.44) should be considered by the delegates to the Plan Conference.

(5) During the interim between Plan Conferences, represent the cooperating States in:

(i) Advising the Department with respect to administrative procedures and interpretations of the Plan provisions as contained in 9 CFR.

(ii) Assisting the Department in evaluating comments received from interested persons concerning proposed amendments to the Plan provisions.

(iii) Recommending to the Secretary of Agriculture any changes in the provisions of the Plan as may be necessitated by unforeseen conditions when postponement until the next Plan Conference would seriously impair the operation of the program. Such recommendations shall remain in effect only until confirmed or rejected by the next Plan Conference, or until rescinded by the committee.

(6) Serve as an official advisory committee for the study of problems relating to poultry health and as the need arises, to make specific recommendations to the Secretary of Agriculture concerning ways in which the Department may assist the industry in solving these problems.

(7) Serve as a direct liaison between the NPIP and the United States Animal Health Association.

(8) Advise and make recommendations to the Department regarding NPIP involvement or representation at poultry industry functions and activities as deemed necessary or advisable for the purposes of the NPIP.
