
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter G - Livestock Improvement
#### PART 147 - AUXILIARY PROVISIONS ON NATIONAL POULTRY IMPROVEMENT PLAN
##### Subpart E - Procedure for Changing National Poultry Improvement Plan
###### ยง 147.47 Conference consideration of proposed changes.

(a) The chairman of the conference shall be a representative of the Department.

(b) At the time designated for voting on proposed changes by the official delegates, the chairman of the General Conference Committee and the four committee chairmen shall sit at the speaker's table and assist the chairman of the conference.

(c) Each committee chairman shall present the proposals which his committee approves or recommends for adoption as follows: "Mr. Chairman. The committee for Egg-type chickens recommends the adoption of Proposal No. ______, for the following reasons (stating the reasons): I move the adoption of Proposal No. ______." A second will then be called for. If the recommendation is seconded, discussion and a formal vote will follow.

(d) Each committee chairman shall present the proposals which his committee does not approve as follows: "Mr. Chairman. The Committee for Egg-type chickens does not approve Proposal No. ______." The chairman will then ask if any official delegate wishes to move for the adoption of the proposal. If moved and seconded, the proposal is subject to discussion and voted. If there is no motion for approval, or if moved but not seconded, there can be no discussion or vote.

(e) Discussion on any motion must be withheld until the motion has been properly seconded, except that the delegate making the motion is privileged, if he desires, to give reasons for his motion at the time of making it. To gain the floor for a motion or for discussion on a motion, the official delegate in the case of a motion, or anyone in case of discussion on a motion, shall rise, address the chair, give his name and State, and be recognized by the chair before proceeding further. While it is proper to accept motions only from official delegates and to limit voting only to such delegates, it is, however, equally proper to accept discussion from anyone interested. To conserve time, discussion should be pointed and limited to the pertinent features of the motion.

(f) Proposals that have not been submitted in accordance with ยง 147.44 will be considered by the conference only with the unanimous consent of the General Conference Committee. Any such proposals must be referred to the appropriate committee for consideration before being presented for action by the conference.

(g) Voting will be by States, and each official delegate, as determined by ยง 147.45, will be allowed one vote on each proposal pertaining to the program prescribed by the subpart which he represents.

(h) A roll call of States for a recorded vote will be used when requested by a delegate or at the discretion of the chairman.

(i) All motions on proposed changes shall be for adoption.

(j) Proposed changes shall be adopted by a majority vote of the official delegates present and voting.

(k) The conference shall be open to any interested person.
