
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter L - Swine Health Protection
#### PART 166 - SWINE HEALTH PROTECTION
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 166.11 Suspension and revocation of licenses.
####### Summary suspension.

(b)If the Administrator has reason to believe that any licensee has not complied or is not complying with any provisions of the Act or regulations in this part and the Administrator deems such action necessary in order to protect the public health, interest, or safety, the Administrator may summarily suspend the license of such persons pending a final determination in formal proceedings and any judicial review thereof, effective upon verbal or written notice of such suspension and the reasons therefor. In the event of verbal notification, written confirmation shall follow as soon as circumstances permit. This summary suspension shall continue in effect pending the completion of the proceeding and any judicial review thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator.

(c) The license of a person shall be automatically revoked, without action of the Administrator, upon the final effective date of the second criminal conviction of such person, as is stated in section 5(c) of the Act. The licensee will be notified in writing of such revocation by the Area Veterinarian in Charge or, in States having primary enforcement responsibility, by the State animal health official.

(d) Any person whose license has been suspended or revoked for any reason shall not be licensed in such person's own name or in any other manner, nor shall any of such person's employees be licensed for the purpose of operating the facility owned or operated by said licensee while the order of suspension or revocation is in effect. Any person whose license has been revoked shall not be eligible to apply for a new license for a period of 1 year from the effective date of such revocation. Any person who desires the reinstatement of a license that has been revoked must follow the procedure for new licensees set forth in ยง 166.10 of this part.
