
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter L - Swine Health Protection
#### PART 166 - SWINE HEALTH PROTECTION
##### General Provisions
###### ยง 166.13 Licensee responsibilities.

(a) A licensed facility shall be subject to inspections. Each inspector will be furnished with an official badge or identification card, either of which shall be sufficient identification to entitle access during normal business hours to the facility for the purposes of inspection. At such time the inspector is duly authorized to:

(1) Inspect the facility, including cooker function;

(2) Take samples of garbage;

(3) Observe and physically inspect the health status of all species of animals on the premises;

(4) Review records and make copies of such records; and

(5) Take photographs. A copy of each photograph will be provided to the licensee within 14 days.

(b) A licensee shall notify an inspector immediately upon detection of illness or death not normally associated with the licensee's operation in any animal species on the licensee's premises.

(c) A licensee shall notify an inspector or the State animal health official or the Area Veterinarian in Charge, as appropriate, of any change in the name, address, management or substantial control or ownership of his business or operation within 30 days after making such change.

(d) A licensee shall supply, upon request by an inspector, information concerning sources of garbage. Such information shall include the dates of supply and the names and addresses of the person and/or organization from which the garbage was received.
