
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart G - Market Agency, Dealer, and Packer Bonds
##### ยง 201.30 Amount of market agency, dealer and packer bonds.
###### Packer.

(d)The amount of bond coverage must be based on the average amount of livestock purchased by the packer during a period equivalent to 2 business days. To compute the required amount of bond coverage, divide the total dollar value of livestock purchased during the preceding business year, or substantial part of that business year, in which the packer did business, by one-half the number of days on which business was conducted. The number of days in any business year, for purposes of this regulation, shall not exceed 260. Therefore, the divisor (one-half the number of days on which business was conducted) shall not exceed 130. The amount of the bond coverage must be the next multiple of $5,000 above the amount so determined. In no case shall the amount of bond coverage for a packer be less than $10,000.

(e) If a person applying for registration as a market agency or dealer has been engaged in the business of handling livestock before the date of the application, the value of the livestock handled, if representative of future operations, must be used in computing the required amount of bond coverage. If the applicant for registration is a successor in business to a registrant formerly subject to these regulations, the amount of bond coverage of the applicant must be at least that amount required of the prior registrant, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator. If a packer becomes subject to these regulations, the value of livestock purchased, if representative of future operations, must be used in computing the required amount of bond coverage. If a packer is a successor in business to a packer formerly subject to these regulations, the amount of bond coverage of the successor must be at least that amount required of the prior packer, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator.

(f) Whenever the Administrator has reason to believe that a bond is inadequate to secure the performance of the obligations of the market agency, dealer or packer covered thereby, the Administrator shall notify such person to adjust the bond to meet the requirements the Administrator determines to be reasonable.
