
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart K - Services
##### ยง 201.73-1 Instructions for weighing livestock.
###### Balancing the empty scale.

(a)(1) The empty scale shall be balanced each day before weighing begins, and maintained in correct balance which weighing operations continue. The zero balance shall be verified at intervals of not more than 15 drafts or 15 minutes, whichever is completed first. In addition, the zero balance of the scale shall be verified whenever a weigher resumes weighing duties after an absence from the scale and also whenever a load exceeding half the scale capacity or 10,000 pounds (whichever is less) has been weighed and is followed by a load of less than 1,000 pounds, verification to occur before the weighing of the load of less than 1,000 pounds.

(2) The time at which the empty scale is balanced or its zero balance verified shall be recorded on scale tickets or other permanent records. Balance tickets must be filed with other scale tickets issued on that date.

(3) Before balancing the empty scale, the weigher shall assure himself that the scale gates are closed and that no persons or animals are on the scale platform or in contact with the stock rack, gates, or platform. If the scale is balanced with persons on the scale platform, the zero balance shall be verified whenever there is a change in such persons. When the scale is properly balanced and ready for weighing, the weigher shall so indicate by an appropriate signal.

(4) Weighbeam scales shall be balanced by first seating each poise securely in its zero notch and then moving the balance ball to such position that a correct zero balance is obtained. A scale equipped with a balance indicator is correctly balanced when the pointer comes to rest at zero. A scale not equipped with a balance indicator is correctly balanced if the weighbeam, when released at the top or bottom of the trig loop, swings freely in the trig loop in such manner that it will come to rest at the center of the trig loop.

(5) Dial scales shall be balanced by releasing all drop weights and operating the balance ball or other balancing device to obtain a correct zero balance. The indicator must visually indicate zero on the dial and the ticket printer must record a correct zero balance.

(6) Electronic digital scales should be properly warmed up before use. In most cases, it is advisable to leave the electric power on continuously. The zero load balance shall be verified by recording the zero balance on a scale ticket. The main indicating element and the remote visual weight display shall indicate zero when the balance is verified. The proper procedure for balancing this type of scale will vary according to the manufacturer. Refer to the operator's manual for specific instructions.
