
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart K - Services
##### ยง 201.73-1 Instructions for weighing livestock.
###### Weighing the load.

(b)(1) Before weighing a draft of livestock, the weigher shall assure himself that the entire draft is on the scale platform with the gates closed and that no persons or animals off the scale are in contact with the platform, gates, or stock rack.

(i) On a weighbeam scale with a balance indicator, the weight of a draft shall be determined by seating the poises at such positions that the pointer will come to rest within the central target area or within(0.25) inch of the zero mark.

(ii) On a weighbeam scale without a balance indicator, the weight shall be determined by seating the poises at such positions that the weighbeam, when released from the top or bottom of the trig loop, will swing freely and come to rest at the approximate center of the trig loop.

(iii) On a dial scale, the weight is indicated automatically when the indicator moves around the dial face and comes to rest.

(iv) On an electronic digital scale, the weight of a draft is indicated automatically when the weight value indicated stabilized.

(2) The correct weight of a livestock draft is the value in pounds indicated when a correct load balance is obtained. The weigher should always concentrate his attention upon the beam tip, balance indicator or dial indicator while weighing and not concern himself with reading the visible weight indications until correct load balance is obtained. On electronic digital scales, the weigher should concentrate on the pulsing or flickering of weight values to assure that the unit indicates a stable weight before activating the print button.
