
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart K - Services
##### ยง 201.73-1 Instructions for weighing livestock.
###### Weigher's responsibilities.

(e)(1) The primary responsibility of a weigher is to determine and accurately record the weight of livestock drafts without prejudice or favor to any person or agency and without regard for livestock ownership, price, condition, fill, shrink, or other considerations. A weigher shall not permit the representations or attitudes of any persons or agencies to influence his judgment or action in performing his duties.

(2) Unused scale tickets, or those which are partially executed but without a printed weight value, shall not be left exposed or accessible to unauthorized personnel. All such tickets shall be kept under lock when the weigher is not at his duty station.

(3) Accurate weighing and correct weight recording require that a weigher shall not permit his operations to be hurried to the extent that inaccurate weights or incorrect weight records may result. Each draft of livestock must be weighed accurately to the nearest minimum weight value that can be indicated or recorded. Manual operations connected with balancing, weighing, and recording shall be performed with the care necessary to prevent damage to the accurately machined and adjusted parts of weighbeams, poises, and printing devices.

(4) Livestock owners, buyers, or others having legitimate interest in a livestock draft must be permitted to observe the balancing, weighing, and recording procedures, and a weigher shall not deny them that right or withhold from them any information pertaining to the weight of that draft. He shall check the zero balance of the scale or reweigh a draft of livestock when requested by such parties.
