
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart K - Services
##### ยง 201.73-1 Instructions for weighing livestock.
###### General precautions.

(g)(1) The poises of weighbeam scales are carefully adjusted and sealed to a definite weight at the factory and any change in that weight seriously affects weighing accuracy. A weigher, therefore, should be certain that poise parts do not become broken, loose or lost and that no material is added to a poise. Balancing or weighing shall not be performed while a scale ticket is in the slot of a weighbeam poise.

(2) Stops are provided on scale weighbeams to prevent movement of poises back of the zero graduation when balancing or weighing. When the stops become worn or broken and allow a poise to be set behind the zero position, this condition should be reported and corrected without delay.

(3) Foreign objects or loose material in the form of nuts, bolts, washers or other material on any part of the weighbeam assembly, including the counter-balance hanger or counter-balance weights, are potential sources of weighing error. Loose balancing material must be enclosed in the shot cup of the counter-balance hanger, and counter-balance weights must not be of the slotted type which can readily be removed.

(4) Whenever for any reason a weigher has reason to believe that a scale is not functioning properly or not yielding correct weight values, he shall discontinue weighing, report the facts to the parties responsible for scale maintenance, and request inspection, test, or repair of the scale.

(5) When a scale has been adjusted, modified, or repaired in any manner which may affect the accuracy of weighing or weight recording, the weigher shall not use the scale until it has been tested and inspected and found to be accurate.

(6) Count-off men, gate men, or others assigned to open or close scale gates or to drive livestock on or off the scale, shall perform those functions as directed by the weigher's signals or spoken instructions. They shall prevent persons or animals off the scale from being in contact with any part of the scale platform, stock rack, or gates while the scale is being balanced or used for weighing. They shall not open gates or remove livestock from the scale until directed by the weigher.
