
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart N - Packers and Live Poultry Dealers
##### ยง 201.108-1 Instructions for weighing live poultry or feed.
###### Balancing the empty scale.

(a)(1) The scale must be maintained in zero balance at all times. The empty scale must be balanced each day before weighing begins and thereafter the scale must be balanced; and the zero balance, the time and date the empty scale was balanced must be mechanically printed on the scale ticket or other basic transaction record before any poultry or feed is weighed. In addition, the zero balance of the scale must be verified whenever a weigher resumes weighing duties after an absence from the scale.

(2) Before balancing the empty scale, the weigher shall notify parties outside the scale house of his/her intention and shall be assured that no persons or vehicles are in contact with the platform. When the empty scale is balanced and ready for weighing, the weigher shall so indicate by appropriate signal.

(3) Weighbeam scales shall be balanced by first seating each poise securely in its zero notch and then moving the balance ball to such position that a correct zero balance is obtained. A scale equipped with a balance indicator is correctly balanced when the indicator comes to rest in the center of the target area. A scale not equipped with a balance indicator is correctly balanced if the weighbeam, when released at the top or bottom of the trig loop, swings freely in the trig loop in such manner that it will come to rest at the center of the trig loop.

(4) Dial scales shall be balanced by releasing all drop weights and operating the balance ball or other balancing device to obtain a correct zero balance. The indicator must visibly indicate zero on the dial reading face and the ticket printer must record a correct zero balance. "Balance tickets" shall be filed with other scale tickets issued on that date.

(5) Electronic digital scales should be properly warmed up before use. In most cases it is advisable to leave the electric power on continuously. The zero balance shall be verified by recording the zero balance on a scale ticket. The main indicating element and the remote visual weight display shall indicate zero when the balance is verified. The proper procedure for balancing this type of scale will vary according to the manufacturer. Refer to the operator's manual for specific instructions.

(6) A balance ball or other balancing device shall be operated only when balancing the empty scale and shall not be operated at any time or for any other purpose.
