
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart N - Packers and Live Poultry Dealers
##### ยง 201.108-1 Instructions for weighing live poultry or feed.
###### Sensitivity control.

(b)(1) A scale must be sensitive in response to platform loading if it is to yield accurate weights. It, therefore, is the duty of a weigher to assure himself that interferences, weighbeam friction, or other factors do not impair sensitivity. He shall satisfy himself, at least twice each day, that the scale is sufficiently sensitive, and, if the following requirements are not met, he must report the facts to his superior or employer immediately.

(2) A weighbeam scale with a balance indicator is sufficiently sensitive if, when the scale is balanced with the indicator at the center of the target, movement of the fractional poise one graduation will change the indicator rest point () inch (0.25) or the width of the central target area, whichever is greater.

(3) A weighbeam scale without a balance indicator is sufficiently sensitive if, when the scale is balanced with the weighbeam at the center of the trig loop, movement of the fractional poise two graduations will cause the weighbeam to come to rest at the bottom of the trig loop.

(4) Adjustable damping devices are incorporated in balance indicators and in dial scales to absorb the effects of load impact and to bring the indicator to rest. The weigher must be familiar with the location and adjustment of these damping devices and keep them so adjusted that when the indicator is displaced from a position of rest, it will oscillate freely through at least one complete cycle of movement before coming to rest at its original position.

(5) Friction at weighbeam bearings may reduce the sensitiveness of the scale, cause sluggish weighbeam action and affect weighing accuracy. A weigher must inspect the weighbeam assembly daily to make certain that there is clearance between the weighbeam and the pivot bearings.

(6) Interferences or binding of the scale platform, or other "live" parts of the scale, are common causes of weighing inaccuracy. A weigher shall satisfy himself, at the beginning of each weighing period, that all such "live" parts have sufficient clearance to prevent interference.
