
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart N - Packers and Live Poultry Dealers
##### ยง 201.108-1 Instructions for weighing live poultry or feed.
###### Weighing the load.

(c)(1) Vehicle scales used to weigh live poultry shall be of sufficient length and capacity to weigh an entire vehicle as a unit; provided, that a trailer may be uncoupled from a tractor and weighed as a single unit. Before weighing a vehicle, either coupled or uncoupled, the weigher shall be assured that the entire vehicle is on the scale platform and that no persons are on the scale platform.

(i) On a weighbeam scale with a balance indicator the weight of a vehicle shall be determined by moving the poises to such positions that the indicator will come to rest within the central target area.

(ii) On a weighbeam scale without a balance indicator the weight shall be determined by moving the poises to such positions that the weighbeam, when released from the top or bottom of the trig loop, will swing freely in the trig loop and come to rest at the approximate center of the trig loop.

(iii) On a dial scale the weight of a vehicle is indicated automatically when the indicator revolves around the dial face and comes to rest.

(iv) On an electronic digital scale the weight of a vehicle is indicated automatically when the weight value indicated is stable.

(v) A feed hopper attached to an electronic digital scale must be empty of feed and the electronic digital scale must be balanced at zero prior to first weighment for each grower or per truckload, whichever is applicable. The date and time that the empty hopper scale is balanced with proof of the zero balance must be mechanically printed on the scale ticket or other permanent record that must be attached to the grower's copy of the scale ticket.

(vi) An onboard weighing system must be level and locked in position and zero balanced prior to weighing. The date and time the onboard scale is balanced with proof of the zero balance must be mechanically printed on the scale ticket or other permanent record that must be attached to the grower's copy of the scale ticket. When more than one grower's feed is weighed, the preceding grower's gross weight can be used for the next grower's tare weight, and can be repeated until the unit is full.

(2) The correct weight is the value in pounds indicated by a weighbeam, dial or digital scale when a stable load balance is obtained. In any case, the weigher should concentrate on the beam tip, balance indicator, dial or digital indicator while weighing and not be concerned with reading the visible weight indications until a stable load balance is obtained. On electronic digital scales, the weigher should concentrate on the pulsing or flickering of weight values to assure that the unit indicates a stable weight before activating the print button.
