
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart N - Packers and Live Poultry Dealers
##### ยง 201.108-1 Instructions for weighing live poultry or feed.
###### Recording the weight.

(d)(1) The gross or tare weight shall be recorded immediately after the load balance is obtained and before any poises are moved or load removed from the scale platform. The weigher shall make certain that the printed weight record agrees with the weight value visibly indicated on the weighbeam, dial or digital indicator when correct load balance is obtained. The weigher shall also assure that the printed weight value is sufficiently distinct and legible.

(2) The weight printing device on a scale shall be operated only to produce a printed or impressed record of the weight while the load is on the scale and correctly balanced. If the weight is not printed clearly and correctly, the ticket shall be marked void and a new one printed before the load is removed from the scale.

(3) When returned feed from a contract poultry grower is picked up and weighed on an onboard weighing system, the weight of the feed must be recorded and a ticket printed. That weight must be used as the tare weight when feed from another contract poultry grower is picked up on the same load. The procedure must be followed each time another grower's feed is added to the load.
