
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 201 - ADMINISTERING THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Subpart N - Packers and Live Poultry Dealers
##### ยง 201.108-1 Instructions for weighing live poultry or feed.
###### Weigher's responsibilities.

(e)(1) The primary responsibility of a weigher is to determine and record the true weight of live poultry without prejudice or favor to any person or agency and without regard for poultry ownership, price, condition, shrink, or other considerations. A weigher shall not permit the representations or attitudes of any persons or agencies to influence their judgment or action in performing his/her duties.

(2) Accurate weighing and weight recording require that a weigher shall not permit operations to be hurried to the extent that inaccurate weights or incorrect weight records may result. The gross, tare and net weights must be determined accurately to the nearest minimum graduation. Manual operations connected with balancing, weighing, and recording shall be performed with the care necessary to prevent damage to the accurately machined and adjusted parts of weighbeams, poises, and printing devices. Rough handling of these parts shall be avoided.

(3) Poultry growers, live poultry dealers, sellers, or others having legitimate interest in a load of poultry are entitled to observe the balancing, weighing, and recording procedures. A weigher shall not deny such persons that right or withhold from them any information pertaining to the weight. The weigher shall check the zero balance of the scale or reweigh a load of poultry when requested by such parties or duly authorized representatives of the administrator.
