
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 202 - RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Rules of Practice Applicable to Reparation Proceedings
##### ยง 202.109 Rule 9: Depositions.
###### Order.

(d)(1) The presiding officer, if satisfied that good cause for taking the deposition is present, may order the taking of the deposition.

(2) The order shall be served on the parties and shall include:

(i) The name and address of the officer before whom the deposition is to be made;

(ii) The name of the deponent;

(iii) Whether the deposition will be oral or on written questions;

(iv) If the deposition is oral, the manner in which the deposition is to be conducted (telephone, audio-visual telecommunication, or personal attendance of those who are to participate in the deposition); and

(v) The time, which shall not be less than 20 days after the issuance of the order, and place.

(3) The officer, time, place, and manner of the deposition as stated in the presiding officer's order need not be the same as the officer, time, place, and manner suggested in the application.

(4) The deposition shall be conducted in the manner (telephone, audio-visual telecommunication, or personal attendance of those who are to participate in the deposition) agreed to by the parties.

(5) If the parties cannot agree on the manner in which the deposition is to be conducted:

(i) The deposition shall be conducted by telephone unless the presiding officer determines that conducting the deposition by audio-visual telecommunication:

(A) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;

(B) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the deposition; or

(C) Would cost less than conducting the deposition by telephone.

(ii) If the deposition is not conducted by telephone, the deposition shall be conducted by audio-visual telecommunication unless the presiding officer determines that conducting the deposition by personal attendance of any individual who is expected to participate in the deposition:

(A) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;

(B) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the deposition; or

(C) Would cost less than conducting the deposition by telephone or audio-visual telecommunication.
