
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Animal Welfare
#### PART 3 - STANDARDS
##### Subpart G - Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Birds
###### Facilities and Operating Standards
####### ยง 3.153 Primary enclosures.
######## General requirements.

(a)Primary enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they are structurally sound. The primary enclosures must be kept in good repair.

(1) Primary enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:

(i) Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the birds;

(ii) Protect the birds from injury;

(iii) Contain the birds securely;

(iv) Restrict other animals from entering the enclosure;

(v) Ensure that birds have the option to remain dry and clean;

(vi) Provide shelter and protection for each bird from climatic and environmental conditions that may be detrimental to its health and well-being;

(vii) Provide sufficient shade to comfortably shelter all birds housed in the primary enclosure at one time, including low ranking birds that are maintained in social groupings that form dominance hierarchies;

(viii) Provide all the birds with easy and convenient access to clean food and potable water;

(ix) Ensure that all surfaces in contact with the birds may be readily cleaned and/or sanitized in accordance with ยง 3.158 or be replaced when worn or soiled; and

(x) Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the birds' feet and legs from injury. If flooring material is suspended, it must be sufficiently taut to prevent excessive sagging under the bird's weight. If substrate is used in the primary enclosure, the substrate must be clean and made of a suitably absorbent material that is safe and nontoxic to the birds.

(2) Furniture-type objects, such as perches and other objects that enrich a bird's environment, must be species-appropriate and be designed, constructed, and maintained so as to prevent harm to the bird. If the enclosure houses birds that rest by perching, there must be perches available that are appropriate to the age and species of birds housed therein and a sufficient number of perches of appropriate size, shape, strength, texture, and placement to comfortably hold all the birds in the primary enclosure at the same time, including birds that are ranked low in a dominance hierarchy.

(3) Primary enclosures that are adjacent to one another or that share a common side with another enclosure must be suitably screened from each other or kept at a sufficient distance apart in order to prevent injury of the occupants due to predation, territorial disputes, or aggression.
