
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 202 - RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ACT
#### Rules of Practice Applicable to Reparation Proceedings
##### ยง 202.112 Rule 12: Oral hearing.
###### Filing, and presiding officer's certificate, of the transcript or recording.

(j)As soon as practicable after the close of the oral hearing, the reporter shall transmit to the presiding officer the original transcript or recording of the testimony, and as many copies of the transcript or recording as may be required by paragraph (i) of this section for the PSD regional offices and as may be required for the PSD headquarters office in Washington. At the same time the reporter shall also transmit a copy of the transcript or recording to each party who shall have arranged and paid for it, as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. Upon receipt of the transcript or recording, the presiding officer shall attach to the original transcript or recording a certificate stating that, to the best of the presiding officer's knowledge and belief, the transcript or recording is a true, correct, and complete transcript or recording of the testimony given at the hearing and that the exhibits mentioned in it are all the exhibits received in evidence at the hearing, with such exceptions as the certificate shall specify. Such certificate shall be served on each party and a copy thereof shall be attached to each copy of the transcript or recording received by the presiding officer. In accordance with such certificate the presiding officer shall note, on the original transcript or recording, each correction detailed in such certificate by adding or crossing out (but without obscuring the texts as originally transcribed or recorded) at the appropriate places any words necessary to make the text conform to the correct meaning, as certified by the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall send the copies of the transcript or recording to the hearing clerk who shall send them to PSD headquarters.
