
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 205 - CLEAR TITLE - PROTECTION FOR PURCHASERS OF FARM PRODUCTS
#### Interpretive opinions
##### ยง 205.208 Distribution of portions of master list - registration - information to non-registrants on request.

(a) The provisions in the Section regarding registration of "buyers of farm products, commission merchants, and selling agents," "regular" distribution of "portions" of the master list, furnishing of "oral confirmation * * * on request," and the effect of all this, that is, subsections (c)(2) (D), (E) and (F), (e) (2) and (3), and (g)(2) (C) and (D), must be read together.

(b) The Section does not require such persons to register. Not registering with a particular system operator has the effect, under subsections (e)(2) and (g)(2)(C), of making such persons, whether they are inside or outside the State covered by that system, subject to security interests shown on that system's master list whether or not such persons know about them, so that such persons for their own protection will need to query the system operator about any seller "engaged in farming operations," of a farm product produced in the State covered by that system, with whom they deal.

(c) The effect of registration by such persons with a particular system is to get them on the list for regular distribution of portions of that system's master list, the portions to be determined by the registration. They are subject only to security interests shown on the portions which they receive, and are not subject to such interests as are shown on the master list but not shown on portions which they receive. Also, if a particular security interest is shown on the master list, but has been placed on it since the last regular distribution of portions of that list to registrants, registrants would not be subject to that security interest. These conclusions are based on the provisions in subsections (e)(3)(A) and (g)(2)(D)(i) that such persons are subject to a security interest only if they receive "written notice * * * that specifies both the seller and the farm product."

(d) A question arises as to the length of time for which a registration is effective, and whether a registrant, wishing to change registration as to county or product, can amend an existing registration or must file a new one. This is discretionary with the State since the Section is silent about it.
