
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 205 - CLEAR TITLE - PROTECTION FOR PURCHASERS OF FARM PRODUCTS
#### Interpretive opinions
##### ยง 205.208 Distribution of portions of master list - registration - information to non-registrants on request.
###### as to those portions

(e) A question arises whether persons can register to receive only portions of the list for products in which they do not deal, and thus not be subject to security interests in products in which they deal because they are registrants but do not receive written notice of them. For example, can cattle dealers register to receive portions of the master list only for oranges, and thus take cattle free and clear of security interests shown on the master list, but as to which they do not receive written notice because they have not registered to receive the portion for cattle? Registrants will be deemed to be registered onlyof the master list for which they register, and will be deemed to have failed to register as to those portions for which they do not register.

(f) The Section requires "regular" distribution, to registrants, of portions of the master list as amended from time to time by the filing of EFS's and amendments to EFS's. The requirement that the distribution be "regular" necessarily refers to an interval specified in advance. The interval may vary according to product and region. The frequency of such distribution must be a consideration in review for certification since distribution must be timely to serve its purpose. While subsection (c)(2)(E) (providing that distribution be made "regularly as prescribed by the State") gives each State discretion to choose the interval between distributions, whatever interval a State chooses will inevitably make possible some transactions in which security interests are filed in the system but registrants are not subject to them.

(g) Legislative history of the Section shows that buyers, commission merchants, and selling agents are not intended to be liable for errors or other inaccuracies generated by the system. See Nov. 22, 1985 Cong. Rec., Senate, pg. S16300, and Dec. 18, 1985 Cong. Rec., House, pg. H12523.
