
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 205 - CLEAR TITLE - PROTECTION FOR PURCHASERS OF FARM PRODUCTS
#### Interpretive opinions
##### ยง 205.208 Distribution of portions of master list - registration - information to non-registrants on request.
###### furnishing,received,

(h) In furnishing to non-registrants "oral confirmation within 24 hours of any [EFS] on request followed by written confirmation," by a system operator pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(F), any failure in use of a telephone caused by a "busy signal" could not be the basis of liability of the system operator. The basis for this is that subsection (c)(2)(F) does not mention telephones. Also, while it mentionsinformation orally, it does not contain any provision as to how queries are to bethat is, orally, in writing, or otherwise.

(i) Of course it is to be expected that telephones would be used in most cases, but use of them is not required by the legislation and is discretionary with the State.

(j) In the matter of receiving queries and giving oral replies to them, subsection (c)(2)(F) will be complied with if a system operator maintains an office and staff where a query can be received on business days and during business hours such as are regular in the State, and where an oral reply will be available on the regular business day following the day on which the query is received, at or before the time of day when it was received.

(k) Written confirmation is required, by subsection (c)(2)(F), to be given to any non-registered buyer, commission merchant, or selling agent.

(l) Such a written confirmation pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(F) does not alter the liability of the non-registrant querying the system and receiving information about a security interest recorded in it. The basis of this, as above, is that non-registrants are subject to security interests recorded in a system whether or not they know about them, and must query the system for their own protection.

(m) The Section does not specify when or how the written confirmation must be furnished, but provides only that it must follow the oral information. Thus the time and method of furnishing written confirmation is discretionary with the State.
