
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter II - Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture
### PART 205 - CLEAR TITLE - PROTECTION FOR PURCHASERS OF FARM PRODUCTS
#### Interpretive opinions
##### ยง 205.209 Amendment or continuation of EFS.

(a) The "material change," required by subsection (c)(4)(D) to be reflected in an amendment to an EFS and master list entry, is whatever change would render the master list entry no longer informative as to what is subject to the security interest in question. That will vary from case to case. The basis for this is the purpose for which the information is supplied, that is, to make information available, to a buyer, commission merchant, or selling agent who proposes to enter into a transaction in a product, whether it is subject to a security interest. The requirement to amend arises when the information already made available no longer serves the purpose and other information is needed in order to do so.

(b) Where an owner of a product makes a change, such as planting a different crop or purchasing different animals from what was represented, without informing the secured party, so that the master list entry is rendered not informative, but the EFS and master list are not amended through no fault of the secured party, the Section is silent as to the consequences. However, see the legislative history cited in ยง 205.208(f).

(c) The amendment must be filed in the same manner as the original filing. Note the requirement of subsection (c)(4)(D). The amendment may be filed electronically provided a State allows electronic filing of financing statements without the signature of the debtor under applicable State law under provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code. An electronically filed amendment need not be signed. However, if an original or reproduced paper document is filed, the amendment must be signed, authorized, or otherwise authenticated by the debtor, and be filed by the secured party.

(d) An effective financing statement remains effective for a period of 5 years from the date of filing and may be continued in increments of 5-year periods beyond the initial 5-year filing period by refiling an effective financing statement or by filing a continuation statement within 6 months before expiration of the effective financing statement. A continuation statement may be filed electronically or as a paper document, and need not be signed, authorized, or otherwise authenticated by the debtor.
