
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 304 - APPLICATION FOR INSPECTION; GRANT OF INSPECTION
##### § 304.2 Information to be furnished; grant or refusal of inspection.

(a) FSIS shall give notice in writing to each applicant granted inspection and shall specify in the notice the establishment, including the limits of the establishment's premises, to which the grant pertains.

(b) The Administrator is authorized to grant inspection upon his determination that the applicant and the establishment are eligible therefor and to refuse to grant inspection at any establishment if he determines that it does not meet the requirements of this part or the regulations in parts 305, 307, and part 416, §§ 416.1 through 416.6 of this chapter or that the applicant has not received approval of labeling and containers to be used at the establishment as required by the regulations in parts 316 and 317. Any application for inspection may be refused in accordance with the rules of practice in part 500 of this chapter.

(c)(1) Any applicant for inspection at an establishment where the operations thereof may result in any discharge into the navigable waters in the United States is required by subsection 21(b) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (84 Stat. 91), to provide the Administrator with a certification as prescribed in said subsection that there is reasonable assurance that such activity will be conducted in a manner which will not violate the applicable water quality standards. No grant of inspection can be issued after April 3, 1970 (the date of enactment of the Water Quality Improvement Act), unless such certification has been obtained, or is waived because of failure or refusal of the State, interstate agency or the Secretary of the Interior to act on a request for certification within a reasonable period (which shall not exceed 1 year after receipt of such request).

(2) However, certification is not initially required in connection with an application for inspection granted after April 3, 1970, for facilities existing or under construction on April 3, 1970, although certification for such facilities is required to be obtained within the 3-year period immediately following April 3, 1970. Failure to obtain such certification and meet the other requirements of subsection 21(b) prior to April 3, 1973, will result in the termination of inspection at such facilities on that date.
