
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 309 - ANTE-MORTEM INSPECTION
##### ยง 309.7 Livestock affected with anthrax; cleaning and disinfection of infected livestock pens and driveways.

(a) Any livestock found on ante-mortem inspection to be affected with anthrax shall be identified as U.S. Condemned and disposed of in accordance with ยง 309.13.

(b) No other livestock of a lot in which anthrax is found on ante-mortem inspection shall be slaughtered and presented for post-mortem inspection until it has been determined by a careful ante-mortem inspection that no anthrax infected livestock remains in the lot.

(c) Apparently healthy livestock (other than hogs) from a lot in which anthrax is detected, and any apparently healthy livestock which have been treated with anthrax biologicals which do not contain living anthrax organisms, may be slaughtered and presented for post-mortem inspection if they have been held not less than 21 days following the last treatment or the last death of any livestock in the lot. Alternatively, if desired, all apparently healthy livestock of the lot may be segregated and held for treatment by a State licensed veterinarian under supervision of a Program employee or other official designated by the area supervisor. No anthrax vaccine (live organisms) shall be used on the premises of an official establishment.

(d) Livestock which have been injected with anthrax vaccines (live organisms) within 6 weeks, and those bearing evidence of reaction to such treatment, such as inflammation, tumefaction, or edema at the site of the injection, shall be condemned on ante-mortem inspection, or such animals may be held under supervision of a Program employee or other official designated by the area supervisor until the expiration of the 6-week period and the disappearance of any evidence of reaction to the treatment.

(e) When livestock are found on ante-mortem inspection to be affected with anthrax, all exposed livestock pens and driveways of the official establishment shall be cleaned and disinfected by promptly and thoroughly removing and burning all straw, litter, and manure. This shall be followed immediately by a thorough disinfection of the exposed premises by soaking the ground, fences, gates, and all exposed material with a 5 percent solution of sodium hydroxide or commercial lye prepared as outlined in ยง 310.9(e)(1) of this subchapter, or other disinfectant that may be approved in specific cases by the Administrator specifically for this purpose.
