
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 310 - POST-MORTEM INSPECTION
##### ยง 310.21 Carcasses suspected of containing sulfa and antibiotic residues; sampling frequency; disposition of affected carcasses and parts.
###### Testing of carcasses:

(d)

(1) The inspector shall test all carcasses as prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Upon initiation of this program at an establishment, the inspector shall begin the testing rate for carcasses from healthy-appearing certified and noncertified calves at Level D as prescribed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. The inspector shall increase the testing rate to the next higher level the following business day when three carcasses in 100 or less consecutively tested show a positive test result for a drug residue. The inspector shall decrease it to the next lower level when no more than two calves show a positive test result for a drug residue in either 500 calves consecutively tested or all calves tested over a 60 working day period.

(3) Test results shall be determined by the veterinary medical officer.

(4) The establishment may designate one or more of its employees to aid the inspector in performing the swab bioassay test under the supervision of the veterinary medical officer who shall interpret the results, maintain animal identification with the test unit, and ensure integrity of the testing program.

(5) All carcasses and parts thereof from calves selected for testing shall be retained until all test results are complete.

(6) The veterinary medical officer shall condemn all carcasses and parts thereof for which there are positive test results and release for human consumption all carcasses and parts thereof for which there are negative test results.

(7) If there is a positive test result, subsequent calves from the producer of the calf shall be tested in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. These test results will not be included in computations to determine an establishment's compliance record.

(8) The veterinary medical officer may reduce inspection line rates when, in his/her judgment, the prescribed testing cannot be adequately performed within the time available because the establishment's compliance history dictates a need for extensive testing.
