
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 311 - DISPOSAL OF DISEASED OR OTHERWISE ADULTERATED CARCASSES AND PARTS
##### ยง 311.10 Anaplasmosis, anthrax, babesiosis, bacillary hemoglobinuria in cattle, blackleg, bluetongue, hemorrhagic septicemia, icterohematuria in sheep, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, leptospirosis, malignant epizootic catarrh, strangles, purpura hemorrhagica, azoturia, infectious equine encephalomyelitis, toxic encephalomyelitis (forage poisoning), infectious anemia (swamp fever), dourine, acute influenza, generalized osteoporosis, glanders (farcy), acute inflammatory lameness, extensive fistula, and unhealed vaccine lesions.

(a) Carcasses of livestock affected with or showing lesions of any of the following named diseases or conditions shall be condemned:

(1) Anthrax.

(2) Blackleg.

(3) Unhealed vaccine lesions (vaccinia).

(4) Strangles.

(5) Purpura hemorrhagica.

(6) Azoturia.

(7) Infectious equine encephalomye-litis.

(8) Toxic encephalomyelitis (forage poisoning).

(9) Infectious anemia (swamp fever).

(10) Dourine.

(11) Acute influenza.

(12) Generalized osteoporosis.

(13) Glanders (farcy).

(14) Acute inflammatory lameness.

(15) Extensive fistula.

(b) Carcasses of livestock affected with or showing lesions of any of the following named diseases or conditions shall be condemned, except when recovery has occurred to the extent that only localized lesions persist, in which case the carcass may be passed for human food after removal and condemnation of the affected organs or other parts:

(1) Anaplasmosis.

(2) Bacillary hemoglobinuria in cattle.

(3) Babesiosis (piroplasmosis).

(4) Bluetongue.

(5) Hemorrhagic septicemia.

(6) Icterohematuria in sheep.

(7) Infectious bovine rhinotracheitis.

(8) Leptospirosis.

(9) Malignant epizootic catarrh.
