
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 311 - DISPOSAL OF DISEASED OR OTHERWISE ADULTERATED CARCASSES AND PARTS
##### ยง 311.16 Carcasses so infected that consumption of the meat may cause food poisoning.

(a) All carcasses of animals so infected that consumption of the products thereof may give rise to food poisoning shall be condemned. This includes all carcasses showing signs of:

(1) Acute inflammation of the lungs, pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, or meninges.

(2) Septicemia or pyemia, whether puerperal, traumatic, or without any evident cause.

(3) Gangrenous or severe hemorrhagic enteritis or gastritis.

(4) Acute diffuse metritis or mammitis.

(5) Phlebitis of the umbilical veins.

(6) Septic or purulent traumatic pericarditis.

(7) Any acute inflammation, abscess, or suppurating sore, if associated with acute nephritis, fatty and degenerated liver, swollen soft spleen, marked pulmonary hyperemia, general swelling of lymph nodes, diffuse redness of the skin, cachexia, icteric discoloration of the carcass or similar condition, either singly or in combination.

(8) Salmonellosis.

(b) Implements contaminated by contact with carcasses affected with any of the disease conditions mentioned in this section shall be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized as prescribed in part 308 of this subchapter. The equipment used in the dressing of such carcasses, such as viscera trucks or inspection tables, shall be sanitized with hot water having a minimum temperature of 180 &#xB0;F. Carcasses or parts of carcasses contaminated by contact with such diseased carcasses shall be condemned unless all contaminated tissues are removed within 2 hours.
