
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 311 - DISPOSAL OF DISEASED OR OTHERWISE ADULTERATED CARCASSES AND PARTS
##### ยง 311.18 Caseous lymphadenitis.

(a) A thin carcass showing well-marked lesions in the viscera and the skeletal lymph nodes, or a thin carcass showing extensive lesions in any part shall be condemned.

(b) A thin carcass showing well-marked lesions in the viscera with only slight lesions elsewhere or showing well-marked lesions in the skeletal lymph nodes with only slight lesions elsewhere may be passed for cooking.

(c) A thin carcass showing only slight lesions in the skeletal lymph nodes and in the viscera may be passed for human food without restriction.

(d) A well-nourished carcass showing well-marked lesions in the viscera and with only slight lesions elsewhere or showing well-marked lesions confined to the skeletal lymph nodes with only slight lesions elsewhere may be passed for human food without restriction.

(e) A well-nourished carcass showing well-marked lesions in the viscera and the skeletal lymph nodes may be passed for cooking; but where the lesions in a well-nourished carcass are both numerous and extensive, it shall be condemned.

(f) All affected organs and nodes of carcasses passed for human food without restriction or passed for cooking shall be removed and condemned.

(g) As used in this section, the term "thin" does not apply to a carcass which is anemic or emaciated; and the term "lesions" refers to lesions of caseous lymphadenitis.
