
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 312 - OFFICIAL MARKS, DEVICES AND CERTIFICATES
##### ยง 312.2 Official marks and devices to identify inspected and passed products of cattle, sheep, swine, or goats.

(a) The official inspection legend required by part 316 of this subchapter to be applied to inspected and passed carcasses and parts of carcasses of cattle, sheep, swine and goats, meat food products in animal casings, and other products as approved by the Administrator, shall be in the appropriate form as hereinafter specified:

For application to sheep carcasses, the loins and ribs of pork, beef tails, and the smaller varieties of sausage and meat food products in animal casings.

For application to calf and goat carcasses and on the larger varieties of sausage and meat food products in animal casings.

For application to beef and hog carcasses primal parts and cuts therefrom, beef livers, beef tongues, beef hearts, and smoked meats not in casings.

For application to burlap, muslin, cheesecloth, heavy paper, or other acceptable material that encloses carcasses or parts of carcasses.

(b)(1) The official inspection legend required by part 317 of this subchapter to be shown on all labels for inspected and passed products of cattle, sheep, swine, and goats shall be in the following formexcept that it need not be of the size illustrated, provided that it is a sufficient size and of such color as to be conspicuously displayed and readily legible and the same proportions of letter size and boldness are maintained as illustrated:

(2) This official mark shall be applied by mechanical means and shall not be applied by a hand stamp.

(3) The official inspection legend described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may also be used for purposes of part 316 of this subchapter on shipping containers, band labels, artificial casings, and other articles with the approval of the Administrator.

(c) Any brand, stamp, label, or other device approved by the Administrator and bearing any official mark prescribed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be an official device for purposes of the Act.
