
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 313 - HUMANE SLAUGHTER OF LIVESTOCK
##### ยง 313.30 Electrical; stunning or slaughtering with electric current.
###### Administration of electric current, required effect; handling.

(a)(1) The electric current shall be administered so as to produce, at a minimum, surgical anesthesia, i.e., a state where the animal feels no painful sensation. The animals shall be either stunned or killed before they are shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast, or cut. They shall be exposed to the electric current in a way that will accomplish the desired result quickly and effectively, with a minimum of excitement and discomfort.

(2) The driving or conveying of the animals to the place of application of electric current shall be done with a minimum of excitement and discomfort to the animals. Delivery of calm animals to the place of application is essential to ensure rapid and effective insensibility. Among other things, this requires that, in driving animals to the place of application, electrical equipment be used as little as possible and with the lowest effective voltage.

(3) The quality and location of the electrical shock shall be such as to produce immediate insensibility to pain in the exposed animal.

(4) The stunned animal shall remain in a state of surgical anesthesia through shackling, sticking, and bleeding.
