
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 317.2 Labels: definition; required features.
####### Provided, however,

(ii) A panel, the width of which is one-third of the circumference and the height of which is as high as the container:That if there is immediately to the right or left of such principal display panel, a panel which has a width not greater than 20 percent of the circumference and a height as high as the container, and which is reserved for information prescribed in paragraphs (c) (2), (3), and (5), such panel shall be known as the "20 percent panel" and such information may be shown on that panel in lieu of showing it on the principal display panel.

(3) In the case of a container of any other shape, 40 percent of the total surface of the container.

(e)(1) Any descriptive designation used as a product name for a product which has no common or usual name shall clearly and completely identify the product. Product which has been prepared by salting, smoking, drying, cooking, chopping, or otherwise shall be so described on the label unless the name of the product implies, or the manner of packaging shows that the product was subjected to such preparation. The unqualified terms "meat," "meat byproduct," "meat food product," and terms common to the meat industry but not common to consumers such as "picnic," "butt," "cala," "square," "loaf," "spread," "delight," "roll," "plate," "luncheon," and "daisy" shall not be used as names of a product unless accompanied with terms descriptive of the product or with a list of ingredients, as deemed necessary in any specific case by the Administrator in order to assure that the label will not be false or misleading.

(2) The product name for a raw meat product that contains added solution and does not meet a standard of identity in 9 CFR part 319 must contain a descriptive designation that includes:

(i) The percentage of added solution (total weight of the solution ingredients divided by the weight of the raw meat without solution or any other added ingredients multiplied by 100). The percentage of added solution must appear as a number (such as, 15, 20, 30) and the percent symbol (%). The percentage of added solution may be declared by the words "containing" or "contains" (such as, "contains 15% added solution of water and salt," or "containing 15% added solution of water and teriyaki sauce").

(ii) The common or usual name of all individual ingredients or multi-ingredient components in the solution listed in descending order of predominance by weight.

(iii) When the descriptive designation includes all ingredients in the solution, a separate ingredients statement is not required on the label. When the descriptive designation includes multi-ingredient components and the ingredients of the component are not declared in the descriptive designation, all ingredients in the product must be declared in a separate ingredients statement on the label as required in ยง 317.2(c)(2) and (f).

(iv) The product name and the descriptive designation must be printed in a single easy-to-read type style and color and must appear on a single-color contrasting background. The print may appear in upper and lower case letters, with the lower case letters not smaller than one-third () the size of the largest letter.

(v) The word "enhanced" cannot be used in the product name.
