
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 317.2 Labels: definition; required features.
####### Product name and required validated cooking instructions for needle- or blade-tenderized beef products.

(3)

(i) Unless the product is destined to be fully cooked or to receive another full lethality treatment at an official establishment, the product name for a raw or partially cooked beef product that has been mechanically tenderized, whether by needle or by blade, must contain the term "mechanically tenderized," "needle tenderized," or "blade tenderized," as a descriptive designation and an accurate description of the beef component.

(ii) The product name must appear in a single easy-to-read type style and color and on a single-color contrasting background. The print may appear in upper and lower case letters, with the lower case letters not smaller thanthe size of the largest letter.

(iii) The labels on raw or partially cooked needle- or blade-tenderized beef products destined for household consumers, hotels, restaurants, or similar institutions must contain validated cooking instructions, including the cooking method, that inform consumers that these products need to be cooked to a specified minimum internal temperature, whether the product needs to be held for a specified time at that temperature or higher before consumption to ensure that potential pathogens are destroyed throughout the product, and a statement that the internal temperature should be measured by a thermometer. These validated cooking instructions may appear anywhere on the label.

(f)(1) The list of ingredients shall show the common or usual names of the ingredients arranged in the descending order of predominance, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph.

(i) The terms spice, natural flavor, natural flavoring, flavor and flavoring may be used in the following manner:

(A) The term "spice" means any aromatic vegetable substance in the whole, broken, or ground form, with the exceptions of onions, garlic and celery, whose primary function in food is seasoning rather than nutritional and from which no portion of any volatile oil or other flavoring principle has been removed. Spices include the spices listed in 21 CFR 182.10, and 184.

(B) The term "natural flavor," "natural flavoring," "flavor" or "flavoring" means the essential oil, oleoresin, essence or extractive, protein hydrolysate, distillate, or any product or roasting, heating or enzymolysis, which contains the flavoring constituents derived from a spice, fruit or fruit juice, vegetable or vegetable juice, edible yeast, herb, bark, bud, root, leaf or any other edible portion of a plant, meat, seafood, poultry, eggs, dairy products, or fermentation products thereof, whose primary function in food is flavoring rather than nutritional. Natural flavors include the natural essence or extractives obtained from plants listed in 21 CFR 182.10, 182.20, 182.40, 182.50 and 184, and the substances listed in 21 CFR 172.510. The term natural flavor, natural flavoring, flavor or flavoring may also be used to designate spices, powered onion, powdered garlic, and powdered celery.

(ii) The term "corn syrup" may be used to designate either corn syrup or corn syrup solids.

(iii) The term "animal and vegetable fats" or "vegetable and animal fats" may be used to designate the ingredients of mixtures of such edible fats in product designated "compound" or "shortening." "Animal fats" as used herein means fat derived from inspected and passed cattle, sheep, swine, or goats.

(iv) When a product is coated with pork fat, gelatin, or other approved substance and a specific declaration of such coating appears contiguous to the name of the product, the ingredient statement need not make reference to the ingredients of such coating.
