
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 317.2 Labels: definition; required features.
####### Provided,

(2) On containers of frozen dinners, entrees, pizzas, and similar consumer packaged products in cartons the ingredient statement may be placed on the front riser panel:That the words "see ingredients" followed immediately by an arrow is placed on the principal display panel immediately above the location of such statement without intervening print or designs.

(3) The ingredient statement may be placed on the 20 percent panel adjacent to the principal display panel and reserved for required information, in the case of a cylindrical or nearly cylindrical container.

(4) The ingredients statement may be placed on the information panel, except as otherwise permitted in this subchapter.

(g)(1) The name or trade name of the person that prepared the product may appear as the name of the manufacturer or packer without qualification on the label. Otherwise the name of the distributor of the product shall be shown with a phrase such as "Prepared for * * *". The place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor shall be shown on the label by city, State, and postal ZIP code when such business is listed in a telephone or city directory, and if not listed in such directory, then the place of business shall be shown by street address, city, State, and postal ZIP code.

(2) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor may be shown:

(i) On the principal display panel, or

(ii) On the 20 percent panel adjacent to the principal display panel and reserved for required information, in the case of a cylindrical or nearly cylindrical container, or

(iii) On the front riser panel of frozen food cartons, or

(iv) On the information panel.

(h)(1) The statement of net quantity of contents shall appear on the principal display panel of all containers to be sold at retail intact, in conspicuous and easily legible boldface print or type in distinct contrast to other matter on the container, and shall be declared in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph.

(2) The statement as it is shown on a label shall not be false or misleading and shall express an accurate statement of the quantity of contents of the container. Reasonable variations caused by loss or gain of moisture during the course of good distribution practices or by unavoidable deviations in good manufacturing practices will be recognized. Variations from stated quantity of contents shall be as provided in ยง 317.19. The statement shall not include any term qualifying a unit of weight, measure, or count such as "jumbo quart," "full gallon," "giant quart," "when packed," "minimum," or words of similar importance.
