
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 317.2 Labels: definition; required features.
####### Provided,

(3) The statement shall be placed on the principal display panel within the bottom 30 percent of the area of the panel in lines generally parallel to the base:That on packages having a principal display panel of 5 square inches or less, the requirement for placement within the bottom 30 percent of the area of the label panel shall not apply when the statement meets the other requirements of this paragraph (h). In any case, the statement may appear in more than one line. The terms "net weight" or "net wt." shall be used when stating the net quantity of contents in terms of weight, and the term "net contents" or "content" when stating the net quantity of contents in terms of fluid measure.

(4) Except as provided in ยง 317.7, the statement shall be expressed in terms of avoirdupois weight or liquid measure. Where no general consumer usage to the contrary exists, the statement shall be in terms of liquid measure, if the product is liquid, or in terms of weight if the product is solid, semisolid viscous or a mixture of solid and liquid. For example, a declaration of-pound avoirdupois weight shall be expressed as "Net Wt. 12 oz." except as provided for in paragraph (h)(5) of this section for random weight packages; a declaration of 1pounds avoirdupois weight shall be expressed as "Net Wt. 24 oz.," "Net Wt. 1 lb. 8 oz.," "Net Wt. 1lb.," or "Net Wt. 1.5 lbs.".

(5) On packages containing 1 pound or 1 pint and less than 4 pounds or 1 gallon, the statement shall be expressed in ounces or in pounds, with any remainder in terms of ounces or common or decimal fraction of the pound, or in the case of liquid measure, in the largest whole units with any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pint or quart, except that on random weight packages the statement shall be expressed in terms of pounds and decimal fractions of the pound, for packages over 1 pound, and for packages which do not exceed 1 pound the statement may be in decimal fractions of the pound in lieu of ounces. Paragraph (h)(9) of this section permits certain exceptions from the provisions of this paragraph for margarine packages, random weight consumer size packages, and packages of less thanounce net weight. Pargraph (h)(12) of this section permits certain exceptions from the provision of this paragraph for multi-unit packages.

(6) The statement shall be in letters and numerals in type size established in relationship to the area of the principal display panel of the package and shall be uniform of all packages of substantially the same size by complying with the following type specifications:

(i) Not less than one-sixteenth inch in height on packages, the principal display panel of which has an area of 5 square inches or less;

(ii) Not less than one-eighth inch in height on packages, the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 5 but not more than 25 square inches;

(iii) Not less than three-sixteenths inch in height on packages, the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 25 but not more than 100 square inches;

(iv) Not less than one-quarter inch in height on packages, the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 100 but not more than 400 square inches.

(v) Not less than one-half inch in height on packages, the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 400 square inches.

(7) The ratio of height to width of letters and numerals shall not exceed a differential of 3 units to 1 unit (no more than 3 times as high as it is wide). Heights pertain to upper case or capital letters. When upper and lower case or all lower case letters are used, it is the lower case letter "o" or its equivalent that shall meet the minimum standards. When fractions are used, each component numeral shall meet one-half the height standards.

(8) The statement shall appear as a distinct item on the principal display panel and shall be separated by a space at least equal to the height of the lettering used in the statement from other printed label information appearing above or below the statement and by a space at least equal to twice the width of the letter "N" of the style of type used in the quantity of contents statement from other printed label information appearing to the left or right of the statement. It shall not include any term qualifying a unit of weight, measure, or count such as, "jumbo quart," "full gallon," "giant quart," "when packed," "Minimum" or words of similar import.

(9) The following exemptions from the requirements contained in this paragraph (h) are hereby established:

(i) Individually wrapped, random weight consumer size packages shipped in bulk containers (as specified in paragraph (h)(11) of this section) and meat products that are subject to shrinkage through moisture loss during good distribution practices and are designated as gray area type of products as defined under ยง 317.19 need not bear a net weight statement when shipped from an official establishment, provided that a net weight shipping statement which meets the requirements of paragraph (h)(2) of this section is applied to their shipping container prior to shipping it from the official establishment. Net weight statements so applied to the shipping container are exempt from the type size and placement requirements of this paragraph, if an accurate statement of net weight is shown conspicuously on the principal display panel of the shipping container. The net weight also shall be applied directly to random weight consumer size packages prior to retail display and sale. The net weight statement on random weight consumer size packages for retail sale shall be exempt from the type size and placement requirements of this paragraph, if an accurate statement of net weight is shown conspicuously on the principal display panel of the package.

(ii) Individually wrapped and labeled packages of less thanounce net weight and random weight consumer size packages shall be exempt from the requirements of this paragraph if they are in a shipping container and the statement of net quantity of contents on the shipping container meets the requirements of paragraph (h)(2) of this section;

(iii) Individually wrapped and labeled packages of less thanounce net weight bearing labels declaring net weight, price per pound, and total price, shall be exempt from the type size and placement requirements of this paragraph, if an accurate statement of net weight is shown conspicuously on the principal display panel of the package.

(iv) Margarine in 1 pound rectangular packages (except packages containing whipped or soft margarine or packages that contain more than four sticks) is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (h)(3) of this section regarding the placement of the statement of the net quantity of contents within the bottom 30 percent of the principal display panel and that the statement be expressed both in ounces and in pounds, if the statement appears as "1 pound" or "one pound" in a conspicuous manner on the principal display panel.

(v) Sliced shingle packed bacon in rectangular packages is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (h)(3) of this section regarding the placement of the statement of the net quantity of contents within the bottom 30 percent of the principal display panel if the statement appears in a conspicuous manner on the principal display panel.

(10) Labels for containers which bear any representation as to the number of servings contained therein shall bear, contiguous to such representation, and in the same size type as is used for such representation, a statement of the net quantity of each such serving.

(11) As used in this section, a "random weight consumer size package" is one which is one of a lot, shipment or delivery of packages of the same product with varying weights and with no fixed weight pattern.

(12) On a multiunit retail package, a statement of the net quantity of contents shall appear on the outside of the package and shall include the number of individual units, the quantity of each individual unit, and in parentheses, the total net quantity of contents of the multiunit package in terms of avoirdupois or fluid ounces. For the purposes of this section, "multiunit retail package" means a package containing two or more individually packaged units of the identical commodity and in the same quantity, with the individual packages intended to be sold as part of the multiunit retail package but capable of being individually sold in full compliance with all requirements of the regulations in this part. Open multiunit retail packages that do not obscure the number of units and the labeling thereon are not subject to this paragraph if the labeling of each individual unit complies with the requirements of paragraphs (h) (2), (3), (6), and (8) of this section.

(i) The official establishment number of the official establishment in which the product was processed under inspection shall be placed as follows:

(1) Within the official inspection legend in the form required by part 312 of this subchapter; or

(2) Outside the official inspection legend elsewhere on the exterior of the container or its labeling, e.g., the lid of a can, if shown in a prominent and legible manner in a size sufficient to insure easy visibility and recognition and accompanied by the prefix "EST"; or

(3) Off the exterior of the container, e.g., on a metal clip used to close casings or bags, or on the back of a paper label of a canned product, or on other packaging or labeling material in the container, e.g., on aluminum pans and trays placed within containers, when a statement of its location is printed contiguous to the official inspection legend, such as "EST. No. on Metal Clip" or "Est. No. on Pan", if shown in a prominent and legible manner in a size sufficient to insure easy visibility and recognition; or

(4) On an insert label placed under a transparent covering if clearly visible and legible and accompanied by the prefix "EST".

(j) Labels of any product within any of the following paragraphs shall show the information required by such paragraph for such product:

(1) A label for product which is an imitation of another food shall bear the word "imitation" immediately preceding the name of the food imitated and in the same size and style of lettering as in that name and immediately thereafter the word "ingredients:" and the names of the ingredients arranged in the order of their predominance.

(2) If a product purports to be or is represented for any special dietary use by man, its label shall bear a statement concerning its vitamin, mineral, and other dietary properties upon which the claim for such use is based in whole or in part and shall be in conformity with regulations (21 CFR part 125) established pursuant to sections 403, and 701 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 343, 371).

(3) When an artificial smoke flavoring or a smoke flavoring is added as an ingredient in the formula of a meat food product, as permitted in part 318 of this subchapter, there shall appear on the label, in prominent letters and contiguous to the name of the product, a statement such as "Artificial Smoke Flavoring Added" or "Smoke Flavoring Added," as may be applicable, and the ingredient statement shall identify any artificial smoke flavoring or smoke flavoring so added as an ingredient in the formula of the meat food product.

(4) When any other artificial flavoring is permitted under part 318 of this subchapter to be added to a product, the ingredient statement shall identify it as "Artificial Flavoring."

(5) When artificial coloring is added to edible fats as permitted under part 318 of this subchapter such substance shall be declared on the label in a prominent manner and contiguous to the name of the product by the words "Artificially colored" or "Artificial coloring added" or "With added artificial coloring." When natural coloring such as annatto is added to edible fats as permitted under part 318 of this subchapter, such substance shall be declared on the label in the same manner by a phrase such as "Colored with annatto."

(6) When product is placed in a casing to which artificial coloring is applied as permitted under part 318 of this subchapter, there shall appear on the label, in a prominent manner and contiguous to the name of the product, the words, "Artificially colored."

(7) If a casing is removed from product at an official establishment and there is evidence of artificial coloring on the surface of the product, there shall appear on the label, in a prominent manner and contiguous to the name of product, the words "Artificially colored."

(8) When a casing is colored prior to its use as a covering for product and the color is not transferred to the product enclosed in the casing, no reference to color need appear on the label but no such casing may be used if it is misleading or deceptive with respect to color, quality, or kind of product, or otherwise.

(9) Product which bears or contains any other artificial coloring, as permitted under part 318 of this subchapter, shall bear a label stating that fact on the immediate container or if there is none, on the product.

(10) When an antioxidant is added to product as permitted under part 318 of this subchapter, there shall appear on the label in prominent letters and contiguous to the name of the product, a statement identifying the officially approved specific antioxidant by its common name or abbreviation thereof and the purpose for which it is added, such as, "BHA, BHT, and Propylgallate added to help protect flavor."

(11) Containers of meat packed in borax or other preservative for export to a foreign country which permits the use of such preservative shall, at the time of packing, be marked "for export," followed on the next line by the words "packed in preservative," or such equivalent statement as may be approved for this purpose by the Administrator and directly beneath this there shall appear the word "establishment" or abbreviation thereof, followed by the number of the establishment at which the product is packed. The complete statement shall be applied in a conspicuous location and in letters not less than 1 inch in height.

(12) Containers of other product packed in, bearing, or containing any chemical preservative shall bear a label stating that fact.

(13)(i) On the label of any "Mechanically Separated (Species)" described in ยง 319.5(a) of this subchapter, the name of such product shall be followed immediately by the phrase "for processing" unless such product has a protein content of not less than 14 percent and a fat content of not more than 30 percent.
