
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 317.2 Labels: definition; required features.
####### Provided,,a,b

(ii) When any "Mechanically Separated (Species)" described in ยง 319.5 of this subchapter is used as an ingredient in the preparation of a meat food product and such "Mechanically Separated (Species)" contributes 20 mg or more of calcium to a serving of such meat food product, the label of such meat food product shall state the calcium content of such meat food product, determined and expressed as the percentage of the U.S. Recommended Daily Allowance (U.S. RDA) in a serving in accordance with 21 CFR 101.9(b)(1), (c)(7) (i) and (iv), and (e), as part of any nutrition information included on such label, or if such meat food product does not bear nutrition labeling information, as part of a prominent statement in immediate conjunction with the list of ingredients, as follows: "A ______ serving contains ____% of the U.S. RDA of calcium", with the blanks to be filled in, respectively, with the quantity of such product that constitutes a serving and the amount of calcium provided by such serving:That, calcium content need not be stated where () the percent of the U.S. RDA of calcium to be declared would not differ from the percent of the U.S. RDA that would be declared if the meat food product contained only hand deboned ingredients or () the calcium content of a serving of the meat food product would be 20 percent of the U.S. RDA or more if the meat food product contained only hand deboned ingredients.

(k) Packaged products which require special handling to maintain their wholesome condition shall have prominently displayed on the principal display panel of the label the statement: "Keep Refrigerated," "Keep Frozen," "Perishable Keep Under Refrigeration," or such similar statement as the Administrator may approve in specific cases. Products that are distributed frozen during distribution and thawed prior to or during display for sale at retail shall bear the statement on the shipping container: "Keep Frozen." The consumer-size containers for such products shall bear the statement "Previously Handled Frozen for Your Protection, Refreeze or Keep Refrigerated." For all perishable canned products the statement shall be shown in upper case letters one-fourth inch in height for containers having a net weight of 3 pounds or less, and for containers having a net weight over 3 pounds, the statement shall be in upper case letters at least one-half inch in height.

(l) Safe handling instructions shall be provided for: All meat and meat products of cattle, swine, sheep, goat, horse, other equine that do not meet the requirements contained in ยง 318.17, or that have not undergone other processing that would render them ready-to-eat; and all comminuted meat patties not heat processed in a manner that conforms to the time and temperature combinations in the Table for Permitted Heat-Processing Temperature/Time Combinations For Fully-Cooked Patties in ยง 318.23, except as exempted under paragraph (l)(4) of this section.

(1)(i) Safe handling instructions shall accompany every meat or meat product, specified in this paragraph (l) destined for household consumers, hotels, restaurants, or similar institutions and shall appear on the label. The information shall be in lettering no smaller than one-sixteenth of an inch in size and shall be prominently placed with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words, statements, designs or devices in the labeling) as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use.

(ii) The safe handling information shall be presented on the label under the heading "Safe Handling Instructions" which shall be set in type size larger than the print size of the rationale statement and handling statements as discussed in paragraphs (l)(2) and (l)(3) of this section. The safe handling information shall be set off by a border and shall be one color type printed on a single color contrasting background whenever practical.

(2) The labels of the meat and meat products specified in this paragraph (l) shall include the following rationale statement as part of the safe handling instructions, "This product was prepared from inspected and passed meat and/or poultry. Some food products may contain bacteria that could cause illness if the product is mishandled or cooked improperly. For your protection, follow these safe handling instructions." This statement shall be placed immediately after the heading and before the safe handling statements.

(3) Meat and meat products, specified in this paragraph (l), shall bear the labeling statements:

(i) Keep refrigerated or frozen. Thaw in refrigerator or microwave. (Any portion of this statement that is in conflict with the product's specific handling instructions, may be omitted, e.g., instructions to cook without thawing.) (A graphic illustration of a refrigerator shall be displayed next to the statement.);

(ii) Keep raw meat and poultry separate from other foods. Wash working surfaces (including cutting boards), utensils, and hands after touching raw meat or poultry. (A graphic illustration of soapy hands under a faucet shall be displayed next to the statement.);

(iii) Cook thoroughly. (A graphic illustration of a skillet shall be displayed next to the statement.); and

(iv) Keep hot foods hot. Refrigerate leftovers immediately or discard. (A graphic illustration of a thermometer shall be displayed next to the statement.)

(4) Meat or meat products intended for further processing at another official establishment are exempt from the requirements prescribed in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(3) of this section.

(m)(1) The information panel is that part of a label that is the first surface to the right of the principal display panel as observed by an individual facing the principal display panel, with the following exceptions:

(i) If the first surface to the right of the principal display panel is too small to accommodate the required information or is otherwise unusable label space, e.g., folded flaps, tear strips, opening flaps, heat-sealed flaps, the next panel to the right of this part of the label may be used.

(ii) If the package has one or more alternate principal display panels, the information panel is to the right of any principal display panel.

(iii) If the top of the container is the principal display panel and the package has no alternate principal display panel, the information panel is any panel adjacent to the principal display panel.

(2) (i) Except as otherwise permitted in this part, all information required to appear on the principal display panel or permitted to appear on the information panel shall appear on the same panel unless there is insufficient space. In determining the sufficiency of the available space, except as otherwise prescribed in this part, any vignettes, designs, and any other nonmandatory information shall not be considered. If there is insufficient space for all required information to appear on a single panel, it may be divided between the principal display panel and the information panel, provided that the information required by any given provision of this part, such as the ingredients statement, is not divided and appears on the same panel.

(ii) All information appearing on the information panel pursuant to this section shall appear in one place without intervening material, such as designs or vignettes.
