
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### ยง 317.309 Nutrition label content.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(A) Using specific Atwater factors (i.e., the Atwater method) given in Table 13, page 25, "Energy Value of Foods-Basis and Derivation," by A. L. Merrill and B. K. Watt, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Agriculture Handbook No. 74 (Slightly revised February 1973), which is incorporated by reference. Table 13 of the "Energy Value of Foods-Basis and Derivation," Agriculture Handbook No. 74 is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. It is available for inspection at the office of the FSIS Docket Clerk, Room 3171, South Building, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies of the incorporation by reference are available from the Product Assessment Division, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Room 329, West End Court Building, Washington, DC 20250-3700;

(B) Using the general factors of 4, 4, and 9 calories per gram for protein, total carbohydrate, and total fat, respectively, as described in USDA's Agriculture Handbook No. 74 (Slightly revised February 1973), pages 9-11, which is incorporated by reference. Pages 9-11, Agriculture Handbook No. 74 is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. (The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section.);

(C) Using the general factors of 4, 4, and 9 calories per gram for protein, total carbohydrate less the amount of insoluble dietary fiber, and total fat, respectively, as described in USDA's Agriculture Handbook No. 74 (Slightly revised February 1973), pages 9-11, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. (The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section.); or

(D) Using data for specific food factors for particular foods or ingredients approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and provided in parts 172 or 184 of 21 CFR, or by other means, as appropriate.

(ii) "Calories from fat": A statement of the caloric content derived from total fat as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section per serving, expressed to the nearest 5-calorie increment, up to and including 50 calories, and the nearest 10-calorie increment above 50 calories, except that label declaration of "calories from fat" is not required on products that contain less than 0.5 gram of fat per serving and amounts less than 5 calories may be expressed as zero. This statement shall be declared as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(iii) "Calories from saturated fat" or "Calories from saturated" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the caloric content derived from saturated fat as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section per serving may be declared voluntarily, expressed to the nearest 5-calorie increment, up to and including 50 calories, and the nearest 10-calorie increment above 50 calories, except that amounts less than 5 calories may be expressed as zero. This statement shall be indented under the statement of calories from fat as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(2) "Fat, total" or "Total fat": A statement of the number of grams of total fat per serving defined as total lipid fatty acids and expressed as triglycerides. Amounts shall be expressed to the nearest 0.5 ()-gram increment below 5 grams and to the nearest gram increment above 5 grams. If the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content shall be expressed as zero.

(i) "Saturated fat" or "Saturated": A statement of the number of grams of saturated fat per serving defined as the sum of all fatty acids containing no double bonds, except that label declaration of saturated fat content information is not required for products that contain less than 0.5 gram of total fat per serving if no claims are made about fat or cholesterol content, and if "calories from saturated fat" is not declared. Saturated fat content shall be indented and expressed as grams per serving to the nearest 0.5 ()-gram increment below 5 grams and to the nearest gram increment above 5 grams. If the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content shall be expressed as zero.

(A) "Stearic Acid" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the number of grams of stearic acid per serving may be declared voluntarily, except that when a claim is made about stearic acid, label declaration shall be required. Stearic acid content shall be indented under saturated fat and expressed to the nearest 0.5 ()-gram increment below 5 grams and the nearest gram increment above 5 grams. If the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content shall be expressed as zero.

(B) [Reserved]
