
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### ยง 317.309 Nutrition label content.
####### cis

(iii) "Monounsaturated fat" or "Monounsaturated" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the number of grams of monounsaturated fat per serving defined as-monounsaturated fatty acids may be declared voluntarily, except that when polyunsaturated fat is declared, or when a claim about fatty acids or cholesterol is made on the label or in labeling of a product other than one that meets the criteria in ยง 317.362(b)(1) for a claim for "fat free," label declaration of monounsaturated fat is required. Monounsaturated fat content shall be indented and expressed as grams per serving to the nearest 0.5 ()-gram increment below 5 grams and to the nearest gram increment above 5 grams. If the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content shall be expressed as zero.

(3) "Cholesterol": A statement of the cholesterol content per serving expressed in milligrams to the nearest 5-milligram increment, except that label declaration of cholesterol information is not required for products that contain less than 2 milligrams of cholesterol per serving and make no claim about fat, fatty acids, or cholesterol content, or such products may state the cholesterol content as zero. If the product contains 2 to 5 milligrams of cholesterol per serving, the content may be stated as "less than 5 milligrams."

(4) "Sodium": A statement of the number of milligrams of sodium per serving expressed as zero when the serving contains less than 5 milligrams of sodium, to the nearest 5-milligram increment when the serving contains 5 to 140 milligrams of sodium, and to the nearest 10-milligram increment when the serving contains greater than 140 milligrams.

(5) "Potassium" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the number of milligrams of potassium per serving may be declared voluntarily, except that when a claim is made about potassium content, label declaration shall be required. Potassium content shall be expressed as zero when the serving contains less than 5 milligrams of potassium, to the nearest 5-milligram increment when the serving contains 5 to 140 milligrams of potassium, and to the nearest 10-milligram increment when the serving contains greater than 140 milligrams.

(6) "Carbohydrate, total" or "Total carbohydrate": A statement of the number of grams of total carbohydrate per serving expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, the statement "Contains less than 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used as an alternative, or, if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero. Total carbohydrate content shall be calculated by subtraction of the sum of the crude protein, total fat, moisture, and ash from the total weight of the product. This calculation method is described in USDA's Agriculture Handbook No. 74 (Slightly revised February 1973), pages 2 and 3, which is incorporated by reference. Pages 2 and 3, Agriculture Handbook No. 74 is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. (The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section.)

(i) "Dietary fiber": A statement of the number of grams of total dietary fiber per serving, indented and expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, declaration of dietary fiber is not required, or, alternatively, the statement "Contains less than 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used, and if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero.

(A) "Soluble fiber" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the number of grams of soluble dietary fiber per serving may be declared voluntarily except when a claim is made on the label or in labeling about soluble fiber, label declaration shall be required. Soluble fiber content shall be indented under dietary fiber and expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, the statement "Contains less than 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used as an alternative, and if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero.

(B) "Insoluble fiber" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the number of grams of insoluble dietary fiber per serving may be declared voluntarily except when a claim is made on the label or in labeling about insoluble fiber, label declaration shall be required. Insoluble fiber content shall be indented under dietary fiber and expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, the statement "Contains less than 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used as an alternative, and if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero.

(ii) "Sugars": A statement of the number of grams of sugars per serving, except that label declaration of sugars content is not required for products that contain less than 1 gram of sugars per serving if no claims are made about sweeteners, sugars, or sugar alcohol content. Sugars shall be defined as the sum of all free mono- and disaccharides (such as glucose, fructose, lactose, and sucrose). Sugars content shall be indented and expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, the statement "Contains less than 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used as an alternative, and if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero.

(iii) "Sugar alcohol" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the number of grams of sugar alcohols per serving may be declared voluntarily on the label, except that when a claim is made on the label or in labeling about sugar alcohol or sugars when sugar alcohols are present in the product, sugar alcohol content shall be declared. For nutrition labeling purposes, sugar alcohols are defined as the sum of saccharide derivatives in which a hydroxyl group replaces a ketone or aldehyde group and whose use in the food is listed by FDA (e.g., mannitol or xylitol) or is generally recognized as safe (e.g., sorbitol). In lieu of the term "sugar alcohol," the name of the specific sugar alcohol (e.g., "xylitol") present in the product may be used in the nutrition label, provided that only one sugar alcohol is present in the product. Sugar alcohol content shall be indented and expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, the statement "Contains less then 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used as an alternative, and if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero.

(iv) "Other carbohydrate" (VOLUNTARY): A statement of the number of grams of other carbohydrate per serving may be declared voluntarily. Other carbohydrate shall be defined as the difference between total carbohydrate and the sum of dietary fiber, sugars, and sugar alcohol, except that if sugar alcohol is not declared (even if present), it shall be defined as the difference between total carbohydrate and the sum of dietary fiber and sugars. Other carbohydrate content shall be indented and expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, the statement "Contains less than 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used as an alternative, and if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero.

(7) "Protein": A statement of the number of grams of protein per serving expressed to the nearest gram, except that if a serving contains less than 1 gram, the statement "Contains less than 1 gram" or "less than 1 gram" may be used as an alternative, and if the serving contains less than 0.5 gram, the content may be expressed as zero. When the protein in products represented or purported to be for adults and children 4 or more years of age has a protein quality value that is a protein digestibility-corrected amino acid score of less than 20 expressed as a percent, or when the protein in a product represented or purported to be for children greater than 1 but less than 4 years of age has a protein quality value that is a protein digestibility-corrected amino acid score of less than 40 expressed as a percent, either of the following shall be placed adjacent to the declaration of protein content by weight: The statement "not a significant source of protein," or a listing aligned under the column headed "Percent Daily Value" of the corrected amount of protein per serving, as determined in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section, calculated as a percentage of the Daily Reference Value (DRV) or Reference Daily Intake (RDI), as appropriate, for protein and expressed as percent of Daily Value. When the protein quality in a product as measured by the Protein Efficiency Ratio (PER) is less than 40 percent of the reference standard (casein) for a product represented or purported to be for infants, the statement "not a significant source of protein" shall be placed adjacent to the declaration of protein content. Protein content may be calculated on the basis of the factor of 6.25 times the nitrogen content of the food as determined by appropriate methods of analysis in accordance with ยง 317.309(h), except when the procedure for a specific food requires another factor.

(i) A statement of the corrected amount of protein per serving, as determined in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section, calculated as a percentage of the RDI or DRV for protein, as appropriate, and expressed as percent of Daily Value, may be placed on the label, except that such a statement shall be given if a protein claim is made for the product, or if the product is represented or purported to be for infants or children under 4 years of age. When such a declaration is provided, it shall be placed on the label adjacent to the statement of grams of protein and aligned under the column headed "Percent Daily Value," and expressed to the nearest whole percent. However, the percentage of the RDI for protein shall not be declared if the product is represented or purported to be for infants and the protein quality value is less than 40 percent of the reference standard.
