
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### ยง 317.309 Nutrition label content.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(ii) The corrected amount of protein (grams) per serving for products represented or purported to be for adults and children 1 or more years of age is equal to the actual amount of protein (grams) per serving multiplied by the amino acid score corrected for protein digestibility. If the corrected score is above 1.00, then it shall be set at 1.00. The protein digestibility-corrected amino acid score shall be determined by methods given in sections 5.4.1, 7.2.1, and 8 in "Protein Quality Evaluation, Report of the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Protein Quality Evaluation," Rome, 1990, which is incorporated by reference. Sections 5.4.1, 7.2.1, and 8 of the "Report of the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Protein Quality Evaluation," as published by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/World Health Organization, is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. It is available for inspection at the office of the FSIS Docket Clerk, Room 3171, South Building, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Copies of the incorporation by reference are available from the Product Assessment Division, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Room 329, West End Court Building, Washington, DC 20250-3700. For products represented or purported to be for infants, the corrected amount of protein (grams) per serving is equal to the actual amount of protein (grams) per serving multiplied by the relative protein quality value. The relative protein quality value shall be determined by dividing the subject product's protein PER value by the PER value for casein. If the relative protein value is above 1.00, it shall be set at 1.00.

(iii) For the purpose of labeling with a percent of the DRV or RDI, a value of 50 grams of protein shall be the DRV for adults and children 4 or more years of age, and the RDI for protein for children less than 4 years of age, infants, pregnant women, and lactating women shall be 16 grams, 14 grams, 60 grams, and 65 grams, respectively.

(8) Vitamins and minerals: A statement of the amount per serving of the vitamins and minerals as described in this paragraph, calculated as a percent of the RDI and expressed as percent of Daily Value.

(i) For purposes of declaration of percent of Daily Value as provided for in paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section, products represented or purported to be for use by infants, children less than 4 years of age, pregnant women, or lactating women shall use the RDI's that are specified for the intended group. For products represented or purported to be for use by both infants and children under 4 years of age, the percent of Daily Value shall be presented by separate declarations according to paragraph (e) of this section based on the RDI values for infants from birth to 12 months of age and for children under 4 years of age. Similarly, the percent of Daily Value based on both the RDI values for pregnant women and for lactating women shall be declared separately on products represented or purported to be for use by both pregnant and lactating women. When such dual declaration is used on any label, it shall be included in all labeling, and equal prominence shall be given to both values in all such labeling. All other products shall use the RDI for adults and children 4 or more years of age.

(ii) The declaration of vitamins and minerals as a percent of the RDI shall include vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium, and iron, in that order, and shall include any of the other vitamins and minerals listed in paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section when they are added, or when a claim is made about them. Other vitamins and minerals need not be declared if neither the nutrient nor the component is otherwise referred to on the label or in labeling or advertising and the vitamins and minerals are:

(A) Required or permitted in a standardized food (e.g., thiamin, riboflavin, and niacin in enriched flour) and that standardized food is included as an ingredient (i.e., component) in another product; or

(B) Included in a product solely for technological purposes and declared only in the ingredients statement. The declaration may also include any of the other vitamins and minerals listed in paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section when they are naturally occurring in the food. The additional vitamins and minerals shall be listed in the order established in paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section.

(iii) The percentages for vitamins and minerals shall be expressed to the nearest 2-percent increment up to and including the 10-percent level, the nearest 5-percent increment above 10 percent and up to and including the 50-percent level, and the nearest 10-percent increment above the 50-percent level. Amounts of vitamins and minerals present at less than 2 percent of the RDI are not required to be declared in nutrition labeling but may be declared by a zero or by the use of an asterisk (or other symbol) that refers to another asterisk (or symbol) that is placed at the bottom of the table and that is followed by the statement "Contains less than 2 percent of the Daily Value of this (these) nutrient (nutrients)." Alternatively, if vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium, or iron is present in amounts less than 2 percent of the RDI, label declaration of the nutrient(s) is not required if the statement "Not a significant source of ______ (listing the vitamins or minerals omitted)" is placed at the bottom of the table of nutrient values.

(iv) The following RDI's and nomenclature are established for the following vitamins and minerals which are essential in human nutrition:

(v) The following synonyms may be added in parenthesis immediately following the name of the nutrient or dietary component:
