
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### § 317.309 Nutrition label content.
####### beta,beta

(vi) A statement of the percent of vitamin A that is present as-carotene may be declared voluntarily. When the vitamins and minerals are listed in a single column, the statement shall be indented under the information on vitamin A. When vitamins and minerals are arrayed horizontally, the statement of percent shall be presented in parenthesis following the declaration of vitamin A and the percent of Daily Value of vitamin A in the product (e.g., "Percent Daily Value: Vitamin A 50 (90 percent as-carotene)"). When declared, the percentages shall be expressed in the same increments as are provided for vitamins and minerals in paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section.

(9) For the purpose of labeling with a percent of the DRV, the following DRV's are established for the following food components based on the reference caloric intake of 2,000 calories:

(d)(1) Nutrient information specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be presented on products in the following format, except on products on which dual columns of nutrition information are declared as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, on those products on which the simplified format is permitted to be used as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section, on products for infants and children less than 4 years of age as provided for in § 317.400(c), and on products in packages that have a total surface area available to bear labeling of 40 or less square inches as provided for in paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) The nutrition information shall be set off in a box by use of hairlines and shall be all black or one color type, printed on a white or other neutral contrasting background whenever practical.

(ii) All information within the nutrition label shall utilize:

(A) A single easy-to-read type style,

(B) Upper and lower case letters,

(C) At least one point leading (i.e., space between two lines of text) except that at least four points leading shall be utilized for the information required by paragraphs (d)(7) and (d)(8) of this section, and

(D) Letters should never touch.

(iii) Information required in paragraphs (d)(3), (d)(5), (d)(7), and (d)(8) of this section shall be in type size no smaller than 8 point. Except for the heading "Nutrition Facts," the information required in paragraphs (d)(4), (d)(6), and (d)(9) of this section and all other information contained within the nutrition label shall be in type size no smaller than 6 point. When provided, the information described in paragraph (d)(10) of this section shall also be in type no smaller than 6 point.

(iv) The headings required by paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(4), and (d)(6) of this section (i.e., "Nutrition Facts," "Amount per Serving," and "% Daily Value*"), the names of all nutrients that are not indented according to requirements of paragraph (c) of this section (i.e., Calories, Total fat, Cholesterol, Sodium, Potassium, Total carbohydrate, and Protein), and the percentage amounts required by paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section shall be highlighted by bold or extra bold type or other highlighting (reverse printing is not permitted as a form of highlighting) that prominently distinguishes it from other information. No other information shall be highlighted.

(v) A hairline rule that is centered between the lines of text shall separate "Amount Per Serving" from the calorie statements required in paragraph (d)(5) of this section and shall separate each nutrient and its corresponding percent of Daily Value required in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) and (d)(7)(ii) of this section from the nutrient and percent of Daily Value above and below it.

(2) The information shall be presented under the identifying heading of "Nutrition Facts" which shall be set in a type size larger than all other print size in the nutrition label and, except for labels presented according to the format provided for in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, unless impractical, shall be set the full width of the information provided under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.

(3) Information on serving size shall immediately follow the heading. Such information shall include:

(i) "Serving Size": A statement of the serving size as specified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section.

(ii) "Servings Per Container": The number of servings per container, except that this statement is not required on single-serving containers as defined in paragraph (b)(8) of this section or on single-ingredient, raw meat products that are not ground or chopped meat products described in § 317.301.

(4) A subheading "Amount Per Serving" shall be separated from serving size information by a bar.

(5) Information on calories shall immediately follow the heading "Amount Per Serving" and shall be declared in one line, leaving sufficient space between the declaration of "Calories" and "Calories from fat" to allow clear differentiation, or, if "Calories from saturated fat" is declared, in a column with total "Calories" at the top, followed by "Calories from fat" (indented), and "Calories from saturated fat" (indented).

(6) The column heading "% Daily Value," followed by an asterisk (e.g., "% Daily Value*"), shall be separated from information on calories by a bar. The position of this column heading shall allow for a list of nutrient names and amounts as described in paragraph (d)(7) of this section to be to the left of, and below, this column heading. The column headings "Percent Daily Value," "Percent DV," or "% DV" may be substituted for "% Daily Value."

(7) Except as provided for in paragraph (g) of this section, and except as permitted by § 317.400(d)(2), nutrient information for both mandatory and any voluntary nutrients listed in paragraph (c) of this section that are to be declared in the nutrition label, except vitamins and minerals, shall be declared as follows:

(i) The name of each nutrient, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, shall be given in a column and followed immediately by the quantitative amount by weight for that nutrient appended with a "g" for grams or "mg" for milligrams.

(ii) A listing of the percent of the DRV as established in paragraphs (c)(7)(iii) and (c)(9) of this section shall be given in a column aligned under the heading "% Daily Value" established in paragraph (d)(6) of this section with the percent expressed to the nearest whole percent for each nutrient declared in the column described in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section for which a DRV has been established, except that the percent for protein may be omitted as provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section. The percent shall be calculated by dividing either the amount declared on the label for each nutrient or the actual amount of each nutrient (i.e., before rounding) by the DRV for the nutrient, except that the percent for protein shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section. The numerical value shall be followed by the symbol for percent (i.e., %).

(8) Nutrient information for vitamins and minerals shall be separated from information on other nutrients by a bar and shall be arrayed horizontally (e.g., Vitamin A 4%, Vitamin C 2%, Calcium 15%, Iron 4%) or may be listed in two columns, except that when more than four vitamins and minerals are declared, they may be declared vertically with percentages listed under the column headed "% Daily Value."

(9) A footnote, preceded by an asterisk, shall be placed beneath the list of vitamins and minerals and shall be separated from that list by a hairline.

(i) The footnote shall state: Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.

(ii) If the percent of Daily Value is given for protein in the Percent of Daily Value column as provided in paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section, protein shall be listed under dietary fiber, and a value of 50 g shall be inserted on the same line in the column headed "2,000" and value of 65 g in the column headed "2,500."

(iii) If potassium is declared in the column described in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, potassium shall be listed under sodium and the DRV established in paragraph (c)(9) of this section shall be inserted on the same line in the numeric columns.

(iv) The abbreviations established in paragraph (g)(2) of this section may be used within the footnote.

(10) Caloric conversion information on a per-gram basis for fat, carbohydrate, and protein may be presented beneath the information required in paragraph (d)(9), separated from that information by a hairline. This information may be presented horizontally (i.e., "Calories per gram: Fat 9, Carbohydrate 4, Protein 4") or vertically in columns.

(11)(i) If the space beneath the information on vitamins and minerals is not adequate to accommodate the information required in paragraph (d)(9) of this section, the information required in paragraph (d)(9) may be moved to the right of the column required in paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section and set off by a line that distinguishes it and sets it apart from the percent of Daily Value information. The caloric conversion information provided for in paragraph (d)(10) of this section may be presented beneath either side or along the full length of the nutrition label.

(ii) If the space beneath the mandatory declaration of iron is not adequate to accommodate any remaining vitamins and minerals to be declared or the information required in paragraph (d)(9) of this section, the remaining information may be moved to the right and set off by a line that distinguishes it and sets it apart from the percent of Daily Value information given to the left. The caloric conversion information provided for in paragraph (d)(10) of this section may be presented beneath either side or along the full length of the nutrition label.

(iii) If there is not sufficient continuous vertical space (i.e., approximately 3 inches) to accommodate the required components of the nutrition label up to and including the mandatory declaration of iron, the nutrition label may be presented in a tabular display in which the footnote required by paragraph (d)(9) of the section is given to the far right of the label, and additional vitamins and minerals beyond the four that are required (i.e., vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium, and iron) are arrayed horizontally following declarations of the required vitamins and minerals.

(12) The following sample label illustrates the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section:

(13)(i) Nutrition labeling on the outer label of packages of meat or meat food products that contain two or more products in the same packages (e.g., variety packs) or of packages that are used interchangeably for the same type of food (e.g., meat salad containers) may use an aggregate display.

(ii) Aggregate displays shall comply with format requirements of paragraph (d) of this section to the maximum extent possible, except that the identity of each food shall be specified to the right of the "Nutrition Facts" title, and both the quantitative amount by weight (i.e., g/mg amounts) and the percent Daily Value for each nutrient shall be listed in separate columns under the name of each food.

(14) When nutrition labeling appears in a second language, the nutrition information may be presented in a separate nutrition label for each language or in one nutrition label with the information in the second language following that in English. Numeric characters that are identical in both languages need not be repeated (e.g., "Protein/Proteinas 2 g"). All required information must be included in both languages.

(e) Nutrition information may be presented for two or more forms of the same product (e.g., both "raw" and "cooked") or for common combinations of foods as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, or for different units (e.g., per 100 grams) as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, or for two or more groups for which RDI's are established (e.g., both infants and children less than 4 years of age) as provided for in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section. When such dual labeling is provided, equal prominence shall be given to both sets of values. Information shall be presented in a format consistent with paragraph (d) of this section, except that:

(1) Following the subheading of "Amount Per Serving," there shall be two or more column headings accurately describing the forms of the same product (e.g., "raw" and "roasted"), the combinations of foods, the units, or the RDI groups that are being declared. The column representing the product as packaged and according to the label serving size based on the Reference Amount in § 317.312(b) shall be to the left of the numeric columns.

(2) When the dual labeling is presented for two or more forms of the same product, for combinations of foods, or for different units, total calories and calories from fat (and calories from saturated fat, when declared) shall be listed in a column and indented as specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section with quantitative amounts declared in columns aligned under the column headings set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(3) Quantitative information by weight required in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section shall be specified for the form of the product as packaged, but may be on the basis of 'as consumed' for single-ingredient, raw meat products that are not ground or chopped meat products described in § 317.301, and according to the label serving size based on the Reference Amount in § 317.312(b).

(i) Quantitative information by weight may be included for other forms of the product represented by the additional column(s) either immediately adjacent to the required quantitative information by weight for the product as packaged, but may be on the basis of 'as consumed' for single-ingredient, raw meat products that are not ground or chopped meat products described in § 317.301, and according to the label serving size based on the Reference Amount in § 317.312(b) or as a footnote.

(A) If such additional quantitative information is given immediately adjacent to the required quantitative information, it shall be declared for all nutrients listed and placed immediately following and differentiated from the required quantitative information (e.g., separated by a comma). Such information shall not be put in a separate column.

(B) If such additional quantitative information is given in a footnote, it shall be declared in the same order as the nutrients are listed in the nutrition label. The additional quantitative information may state the total nutrient content of the product identified in the second column or the nutrient amounts added to the product as packaged, but may be on the basis of 'as consumed' for single-ingredient, raw meat products that are not ground or chopped meat products described in § 317.301, for only those nutrients that are present in different amounts than the amounts declared in the required quantitative information. The footnote shall clearly identify which amounts are declared. Any subcomponents declared shall be listed parenthetically after principal components (e.g.,cup skim milk contributes an additional 40 calories, 65 mg sodium, 6 g total carbohydrate (6 g sugars), and 4 g protein).

(ii) Total fat and its quantitative amount by weight shall be followed by an asterisk (or other symbol) (e.g., "Total fat (2 g)*") referring to another asterisk (or symbol) at the bottom of the nutrition label identifying the form(s) of the product for which quantitative information is presented.

(4) Information required in paragraphs (d)(7)(ii) and (d)(8) of this section shall be presented under the subheading "% DAILY VALUE" and in columns directly under the column headings set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(5) The following sample label illustrates the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section:

(f)(1) Nutrition information may be presented in a simplified format as set forth herein when any required nutrients, other than the core nutrients (i.e., calories, total fat, sodium, total carbohydrate, and protein), are present in insignificant amounts. An insignificant amount shall be defined as that amount that may be rounded to zero in nutrition labeling, except that for total carbohydrate, dietary fiber, sugars and protein, it shall be an amount less than 1 gram.

(2) The simplified format shall include information on the following nutrients:

(i) Total calories, total fat, total carbohydrate, sodium, and protein;

(ii) Any of the following that are present in more than insignificant amounts: Calories from fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, dietary fiber, sugars, vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium, and iron; and

(iii) Any vitamins and minerals listed in paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section when they are added in fortified or fabricated foods.

(3) Other nutrients that are naturally present in the product in more than insignificant amounts may be voluntarily declared as part of the simplified format.

(4) Any required nutrient, other than a core nutrient, that is present in an insignificant amount may be omitted from the tabular listing, provided that the following statement is included at the bottom of the nutrition label, "Not a significant source of ________." The blank shall be filled in with the appropriate nutrient or food component. Alternatively, amounts of vitamins and minerals present in insignificant amounts may be declared by the use of an asterisk (or symbol) that is placed at the bottom of the table of nutrient values and that is followed by the statement "Contains less than 2 percent of the Daily Value of this (these) nutrient (nutrients)."

(5) Except as provided for in paragraph (g) of this section and in § 317.400(c) and (d), nutrient information declared in the simplified format shall be presented in the same manner as specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, except that the footnote required in paragraph (d)(9) of this section is not required. When the footnote is omitted, an asterisk shall be placed at the bottom of the label followed by the statement "Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet" and, if the term "Daily Value" is not spelled out in the heading, a statement that "DV" represents "Daily Value."

(g) Foods in packages that have a total surface area available to bear labeling of 40 or less square inches may modify the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section and § 317.302(a) by one or more of the following means:

(1)(i) Presenting the required nutrition information in a tabular or linear (i.e., string) fashion, rather than in vertical columns if the product has a total surface area available to bear labeling of less than 12 square inches, or if the product has a total surface area available to bear labeling of 40 or less square inches and the package shape or size cannot accommodate a standard vertical column or tabular display on any label panel. Nutrition information may be given in a linear fashion only if the package shape or size will not accommodate a tabular display.

(ii) When nutrition information is given in a linear display, the nutrition information shall be set off in a box by the use of a hairline. The percent Daily Value is separated from the quantitative amount declaration by the use of parenthesis, and all nutrients, both principal components and subcomponents, are treated similarly. Bolding is required only on the title "Nutrition Facts" and is allowed for nutrient names for "Calories," "Total fat," "Cholesterol," "Sodium," "Total carbohydrate," and "Protein."

(2) Using any of the following abbreviations:

(3) Omitting the footnote required in paragraph (d)(9) of this section and placing another asterisk at the bottom of the label followed by the statement "Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet" and, if the term "Daily Value" is not spelled out in the heading, a statement that "DV" represents "Daily Value."

(4) Presenting the required nutrition information on any other label panel.

(h) Compliance with this section shall be determined as follows:

(1) A production lot is a set of food production consumer units that are from one production shift. Alternatively, a collection of consumer units of the same size, type, and style produced under conditions as nearly uniform as possible, designated by a common container code or marking, constitutes a production lot.
