
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### ยง 317.309 Nutrition label content.
####### Provided,

(5) A product with a label declaration of calories, sugars, total fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, or sodium shall be deemed to be misbranded under section 1(n) of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601(n)(1)) if the nutrient content of the composite is greater than 20 percent in excess of the value for that nutrient declared on the label;That no regulatory action will be based on a determination of a nutrient value which falls above this level by an amount less than the variability generally recognized for the analytical method used in that product at the level involved, and inherent nutrient variation in a product.

(6) The amount of a vitamin, mineral, protein, total carbohydrate, dietary fiber, other carbohydrate, polyunsaturated or monounsaturated fat, or potassium may vary over labeled amounts within good manufacturing practice. The amount of calories, sugars, total fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, or sodium may vary under labeled amounts within good manufacturing practice.

(7) Compliance will be based on the metric measure specified in the label statement of serving size.

(8) The management of the establishment must maintain records to support the validity of nutrient declarations contained on product labels. Such records shall be made available to the inspector or any duly authorized representative of the Agency upon request.

(9) The compliance provisions set forth in paragraph (h) (1) through (8) of this section shall not apply to single-ingredient, raw meat products that are not ground or chopped meat products described in ยง 317.301, including those that have been previously frozen, when nutrition labeling is based on the most current representative data base values contained in USDA's National Nutrient Data Bank or its released form, the USDA National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference as provided in ยง 317.345(e) and (f).
