
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### § 317.313 Nutrient content claims; general principles.
####### e.g.,

(3) Is represented as, or is in a form commonly understood to be, a main dish (not a beverage or dessert). Such representations may be made by statements, photographs, or vignettes.

(n) Nutrition labeling in accordance with § 317.309, shall be provided for any food for which a nutrient content claim is made.

(o) Compliance with requirements for nutrient content claims shall be in accordance with § 317.309(h).

(p)(1) Unless otherwise specified, the reference amount customarily consumed set forth in § 317.312(b) through (e) shall be used in determining whether a product meets the criteria for a nutrient content claim. If the serving size declared on the product label differs from the reference amount customarily consumed, and the amount of the nutrient contained in the labeled serving does not meet the maximum or minimum amount criterion in the definition for the descriptor for that nutrient, the claim shall be followed by the criteria for the claim as required by § 317.312(f) (e.g., "very low sodium, 35 mg or less per 55 grams").

(2) The criteria for the claim shall be immediately adjacent to the most prominent claim in easily legible print or type and in a size that is no less than that required by § 317.2(h) for net quantity of contents, except where the size of the claim is less than two times the required size of the net quantity of contents statement, in which case the criteria statement shall be no less than one-half the size of the claim but no smaller than-inch minimum height, except as permitted by § 317.400(d)(2).

(q) The following exemptions apply:

(1) Nutrient content claims that have not been defined by regulation and that appear as part of a brand name that was in use prior to November 27, 1991, may continue to be used as part of that brand name, provided they are not false or misleading under section 1(n) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 601(n)(1)).

(2) [Reserved]

(3) A statement that describes the percentage of a vitamin or mineral in the food, including foods intended specifically for use by infants and children less than 2 years of age, in relation to a Reference Daily Intake (RDI) as defined in § 317.309 may be made on the label or in the labeling of a food without a regulation authorizing such a claim for a specific vitamin or mineral.

(4) The requirements of this section do not apply to infant formulas and medical foods, as described in 21 CFR 101.13(q)(4).

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Nutrient content claims that were part of the name of a product that was subject to a standard of identity as of November 27, 1991, are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section whether or not they meet the definition of the descriptive term.

(7) Implied nutrient content claims may be used as part of a brand name, provided that the use of the claim has been authorized by FSIS. Labeling applications requesting approval of such a claim may be submitted pursuant to § 317.369.
