
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### § 317.345 Nutrition labeling of single-ingredient, raw meat products that are not ground or chopped products described in § 317.301.

(a)(1) Nutrition information on the major cuts of single-ingredient, raw meat products identified in § 317.344, including those that have been previously frozen, is required, either on their label or at their point-of-purchase, unless exempted under § 317.400. If nutrition information is presented on the label, it must be provided in accordance with § 317.309. If nutrition information is presented at the point-of-purchase, it must be provided in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(2) Nutrition information on single-ingredient, raw meat products that are not ground or chopped meat products described in § 317.301 and are not major cuts of single-ingredient, raw meat products identified in § 317.344, including those that have been previously frozen, may be provided at their point-of-purchase in accordance with the provisions of this section or on their label, in accordance with the provisions of § 317.309.

(3) A retailer may provide nutrition information at the point-of-purchase by various methods, such as by posting a sign or by making the information readily available in brochures, notebooks, or leaflet form in close proximity to the food. The nutrition labeling information may also be supplemented by a video, live demonstration, or other media. If a nutrition claim is made on point-of-purchase materials, all of the format and content requirements of § 317.309 apply. However, if only nutrition information-and not a nutrition claim-is supplied on point-of-purchase materials, the requirements of § 317.309 apply, provided, however:

(i) The listing of percent of Daily Value for the nutrients (except vitamins and minerals specified in § 317.309(c)(8)) and footnote required by § 317.309(d)(9) may be omitted; and

(ii) The point-of-purchase materials are not subject to any of the format requirements.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) For the point-of-purchase materials, the declaration of nutrition information may be presented in a simplified format as specified in § 317.309(f).

(d) The nutrition label data for products covered in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) must be based on either the raw or cooked edible portions of meat cuts with external cover fat at trim levels reflecting current marketing practices. If data are based on cooked portions, the methods used to cook the products must be specified and for products covered in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) must be those which do not add nutrients from other ingredients such as flour, breading, and salt. Additional nutritional data may be presented on an optional basis for the raw or cooked edible portions of the separable lean of meat cuts.

(e) Nutrient data that are the most current representative data base values contained in USDA's National Nutrient Data Bank or its released form, the USDA National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference, may be used for nutrition labeling of single-ingredient, raw meat products, including those that have been previously frozen. These data may be composite data that reflect different quality grades of beef or other variables affecting nutrient content. Alternatively, data that reflect specific grades or other variables may be used, except that if data are used on labels attached to a product which is labeled as to grade of meat or other variables, the data must represent the product in the package when such data are contained in the representative data base. When data are used on labels attached to a product, the data must represent the edible meat tissues present in the package.

(f) If the nutrition information is provided in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, a nutrition label or labeling will not be subject to the Agency compliance review under § 317.309(h), unless a nutrition claim is made on the basis of the representative data base values.

(g) Retailers may use data bases that they believe reflect the nutrient content of single-ingredient, raw meat products, including those that have been previously frozen; however, such labeling shall be subject to the compliance procedures of paragraph (e) of this section and the requirements specified in this subpart for the mandatory nutrition labeling program.
