
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 317 - LABELING, MARKING DEVICES, AND CONTAINERS
##### Subpart B - Nutrition Labeling
###### ยง 317.369 Labeling applications for nutrient content claims.

(a) This section pertains to labeling applications for claims, express or implied, that characterize the level of any nutrient required to be on the label or in labeling of product by this subpart.

(b) Labeling applications included in this section are:

(1) Labeling applications for a new (heretofore unauthorized) nutrient content claim,

(2) Labeling applications for a synonymous term (i.e., one that is consistent with a term defined by regulation) for characterizing the level of a nutrient, and

(3) Labeling applications for the use of an implied claim in a brand name.

(c) Labeling applications and supporting documentation to be filed under this section shall be submitted in quadruplicate, except that the supporting documentation may be submitted on a computer disc copy. If any part of the material submitted is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an accurate and complete English translation. The labeling application shall state the applicant's post office address.

(d) Pertinent information will be considered as part of an application on the basis of specific reference to such information submitted to and retained in the files of the Food Safety and Inspection Service. However, any reference to unpublished information furnished by a person other than the applicant will not be considered unless use of such information is authorized (with the understanding that such information may in whole or part be subject to release to the public) in a written statement signed by the person who submitted it. Any reference to published information should be accompanied by reprints or photostatic copies of such references.

(e) If nonclinical laboratory studies accompany a labeling application, the applicant shall include, with respect to each nonclinical study included with the application, either a statement that the study has been, or will be, conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations as set forth in part 58 of chapter 1, title 21, or, if any such study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance.

(f) If clinical investigations accompany a labeling application, the applicant shall include, with respect to each clinical investigation included with the application, either a statement that the investigation was conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review set forth in part 56 of chapter 1, title 21, or was not subject to such requirements in accordance with ยง 56.194 or ยง 56.105, and that it was conducted in compliance with the requirements for informed consents set forth in part 50 of chapter 1, title 21.

(g) The availability for public disclosure of labeling applications, along with supporting documentation, submitted to the Agency under this section will be governed by the rules specified in subchapter D, title 9.

(h) The data specified under this section to accompany a labeling application shall be submitted on separate sheets, suitably identified. If such data has already been submitted with an earlier labeling application from the applicant, the present labeling application must provide the data.

(i) The labeling application must be signed by the applicant or by his or her attorney or agent, or (if a corporation) by an authorized official.

(j) The labeling application shall include a statement signed by the person responsible for the labeling application, that to the best of his or her knowledge, it is a representative and balanced submission that includes unfavorable information, as well as favorable information, known to him or her pertinent to the evaluation of the labeling application.

(k)(1) Labeling applications for a new nutrient content claim shall be accompanied by the following data which shall be submitted in the following form to the Director, Food Labeling Division, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Washington, DC 20250.

(2) Upon receipt of the labeling application and supporting documentation, the applicant shall be notified, in writing, of the date on which the labeling application was received. Such notice shall inform the applicant that the labeling application is undergoing Agency review and that the applicant shall subsequently be notified of the Agency's decision to consider for further review or deny the labeling application.

(3) Upon review of the labeling application and supporting documentation, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, that the labeling application is either being considered for further review or that it has been summarily denied by the Administrator.

(4) If the labeling application is summarily denied by the Administrator, the written notification shall state the reasons therefor, including why the Agency has determined that the proposed nutrient content claim is false or misleading. The notification letter shall inform the applicant that the applicant may submit a written statement by way of answer to the notification, and that the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the Administrator's decision to deny the use of the proposed nutrient content claim.

(i) If the applicant fails to accept the determination of the Administrator and files an answer and requests a hearing, and the Administrator, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, the Administrator shall file with the Hearing Clerk of the Department the notification, answer, and the request for a hearing, which shall constitute the complaint and answer in the proceeding, which shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with the Department's Uniform Rules of Practice.

(ii) The hearing shall be conducted before an administrative law judge with the opportunity for appeal to the Department's Judicial Officer, who shall make the final determination for the Secretary. Any such determination by the Secretary shall be conclusive unless, within 30 days after receipt of notice of such final determination, the applicant appeals to the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicant has its principal place of business or to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

(5) If the labeling application is not summarily denied by the Administrator, the Administrator shall publish in thea proposed rule to amend the regulations to authorize the use of the nutrient content claim. The proposal shall also summarize the labeling application, including where the supporting documentation can be reviewed. The Administrator's proposed rule shall seek comment from consumers, the industry, consumer and industry groups, and other interested persons on the labeling application and the use of the proposed nutrient content claim. After public comment has been received and reviewed by the Agency, the Administrator shall make a determination on whether the proposed nutrient content claim shall be approved for use on the labeling of meat and meat food products.

(i) If the claim is denied by the Administrator, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the basis for the denial, including the reason why the claim on the labeling was determined by the Agency to be false or misleading. The notification letter shall also inform the applicant that the applicant may submit a written statement by way of answer to the notification, and that the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the Administrator's decision to deny the use of the proposed nutrient content claim.

(A) If the applicant fails to accept the determination of the Administrator and files an answer and requests a hearing, and the Administrator, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, the Administrator shall file with the Hearing Clerk of the Department the notification, answer, and the request for a hearing, which shall constitute the complaint and answer in the proceeding, which shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with the Department's Uniform Rules of Practice.

(B) The hearing shall be conducted before an administrative law judge with the opportunity for appeal to the Department's Judicial Officer, who shall make final determination for the Secretary. Any such determination by the Secretary shall be conclusive unless, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of such final determination, the applicant appeals to the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicant has its principal place of business or to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

(ii) If the claim is approved, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, and shall also publish in thea final rule amending the regulations to authorize the use of the claim.

(l)(1) Labeling applications for a synonymous term shall be accompanied by the following data which shall be submitted in the following form to the Director, Food Labeling Division, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Washington, DC 20250:

(2) Upon receipt of the labeling application and supporting documentation, the applicant shall be notified, in writing, of the date on which the labeling application was received. Such notice shall inform the applicant that the labeling application is undergoing Agency review and that the applicant shall subsequently be notified of the Agency's decision to consider for further review or deny the labeling application.

(3) Upon review of the labeling application and supporting documentation, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, that the labeling application is either being considered for further review or that it has been summarily denied by the Administrator.

(4) If the labeling application is summarily denied by the Administrator, the written notification shall state the reasons therefor, including why the Agency has determined that the proposed synonymous term is false or misleading. The notification letter shall inform the applicant that the applicant may submit a written statement by way of answer to the notification, and that the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the Administrator's decision to deny the use of the proposed synonymous term.

(i) If the applicant fails to accept the determination of the Administrator and files an answer and requests a hearing, and the Administrator, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, the Administrator shall file with the Hearing Clerk of the Department the notification, answer, and the request for a hearing, which shall constitute the complaint and answer in the proceeding, which shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with the Department's Uniform Rules of Practice.

(ii) The hearing shall be conducted before an administrative law judge with the opportunity for appeal to the Department's Judicial Officer, who shall make the final determination for the Secretary. Any such determination by the Secretary shall be conclusive unless, within 30 days after receipt of notice of such final determination, the applicant appeals to the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicant has its principal place of business or to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

(5) If the claim is approved, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, and shall publish in thea notice informing the public that the synonymous term has been approved for use.

(m)(1) Labeling applications for the use of an implied nutrient content claim in a brand name shall be accompanied by the following data which shall be submitted in the following form to the Director, Food Labeling Division, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Washington, DC 20250:

(2) Upon receipt of the labeling application and supporting documentation, the applicant shall be notified, in writing, of the date on which the labeling application was received. Such notice shall inform the applicant that the labeling application is undergoing Agency review and that the applicant shall subsequently be notified of the Agency's decision to consider for further review or deny the labeling application.

(3) Upon review of the labeling application and supporting documentation, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, that the labeling application is either being considered for further review or that it has been summarily denied by the Administrator.

(4) If the labeling application is summarily denied by the Administrator, the written notification shall state the reasons therefor, including why the Agency has determined that the proposed implied nutrient content claim is false or misleading. The notification letter shall inform the applicant that the applicant may submit a written statement by way of answer to the notification, and that the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the Administrator's decision to deny the use of the proposed implied nutrient content claim.

(i) If the applicant fails to accept the determination of the Administrator and files an answer and requests a hearing, and the Administrator, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, the Administrator shall file with the Hearing Clerk of the Department the notification, answer, and the request for a hearing, which shall constitute the complaint and answer in the proceeding, which shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with the Department's Uniform Rules of Practice.

(ii) The hearing shall be conducted before an administrative law judge with the opportunity for appeal to the Department's Judicial Officer, who shall make the final determination for the Secretary. Any such determination by the Secretary shall be conclusive unless, within 30 days after receipt of notice of such final determination, the applicant appeals to the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicant has its principal place of business or to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

(5) If the labeling application is not summarily denied by the Administrator, the Administrator shall publish a notice of the labeling application in theseeking comment on the use of the implied nutrient content claim. The notice shall also summarize the labeling application, including where the supporting documentation can be reviewed. The Administrator's notice shall seek comment from consumers, the industry, consumer and industry groups, and other interested persons on the labeling application and the use of the implied nutrient content claim. After public comment has been received and reviewed by the Agency, the Administrator shall make a determination on whether the implied nutrient content claim shall be approved for use on the labeling of meat food products.

(i) If the claim is denied by the Administrator, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the basis for the denial, including the reason why the claim on the labeling was determined by the Agency to be false or misleading. The notification letter shall also inform the applicant that the applicant may submit a written statement by way of answer to the notification, and that the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the Administrator's decision to deny the use of the proposed implied nutrient content claim.

(A) If the applicant fails to accept the determination of the Administrator and files an answer and requests a hearing, and the Administrator, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, the Administrator shall file with the Hearing Clerk of the Department the notification, answer, and the request for a hearing, which shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with the Department's Uniform Rules of Practice.

(B) The hearing shall be conducted before an administrative law judge with the opportunity for appeal to the Department's Judicial Officer, who shall make the final determination for the Secretary. Any such determination by the Secretary shall be conclusive unless, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of such final determination, the applicant appeals to the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicant has its principal place of business or to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

(ii) If the claim is approved, the Agency shall notify the applicant, in writing, and shall also publish in thea notice informing the public that the implied nutrient content claim has been approved for use.
