
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 318 - ENTRY INTO OFFICIAL ESTABLISHMENTS; REINSPECTION AND PREPARATION OF PRODUCTS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 318.4 Preparation of products to be officially supervised; responsibilities of official establishments; plant operated quality control.
####### Evaluation and Approval of Total Plant Quality Control.

(e)(1) The Administrator shall evaluate the material presented in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. If it is determined by the Administrator, on the basis of the evaluation, that the total quality control system will result in finished products controlled in this manner being in full compliance with the requirements of the Act and regulations thereunder, the total quality control system will be approved and plans will be made for implementation under departmental supervision.

(2) In any situation where the system is found by the Administrator to be unacceptable, formal notification shall be given to the applicant of the basis for the denial. The applicant will be afforded an opportunity to modify the system in accordance with the notification. The applicant shall also be afforded an opportunity to submit a written statement in response to this notification of denial and a right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the denial. If the applicant requests a hearing and the Administrator, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, he shall file with the Hearing Clerk of the Department the notification, answer and the request for hearing, which shall constitute the complaint and answer in the proceeding, which shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with Rules of Practice which shall be adopted for this proceeding.

(3) The establishment owner or operator shall be responsible for the effective operation of the approved total plant quality control system to assure compliance with the requirements of the Act and regulations thereunder. The Secretary shall continue to provide the Federal inspection necessary to carry out his responsibilities under the Act.
