
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 319 - DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS OF IDENTITY OR COMPOSITION
##### Subpart E - Sausage Generally: Fresh Sausage
###### ยง 319.145 Italian sausage products.

(a) Italian sausage products are cured or uncured sausages containing at least 85 percent meat, or combination of meat and fat, with the total fat content constituting not more than 35 percent of the finished product. Such products shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) (1), (2) or (3) of this section, and shall contain salt, pepper, and either fennel or anise, or a combination of fennel and anise. Such products may contain any or all of the optional ingredients listed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) "Italian Sausage" shall be prepared with fresh or frozen pork, or pork and pork fat, and may contain Mechanically Separated (Species) in accordance with ยง 319.6.

(2) "Italian Sausage with Beef," "Italian Sausage with Veal," or "Italian Sausage with Beef and Veal," shall be prepared so that fresh or frozen pork constitutes the major portion of the meat content requirement of this paragraph. Mechanically Separated (Species) may be used in accordance with ยง 319.6.

(3) "Italian Beef Sausage" or "Kosher Italian Beef Sausage" shall be prepared with fresh or frozen beef or beef and beef fat. "Italian Veal Sausage" or "Kosher Italian Veal Sausage" shall be prepared with fresh or frozen veal or veal and veal fat. Mechanically Separated (Species) may be used in accordance with ยง 319.6.

(4) Italian sausage products made in conformance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section, and with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, may contain sodium nitrite or potassium nitrite in amounts not to exceed those allowed in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR chapter III, subchapter E, or in 21 CFR chapter I, subchapter A or subchapter B, provided that such products are labeled with the word "cured" in the product name, such as "Cured Italian Sausage." The word "cured" shall be displayed on the product label in the same size and style of lettering as other words in the product name.

(b) Optional ingredients permitted in Italian sausage products include:

(1) Spices (including paprika) and flavorings.

(2) Water or ice to facilitate chopping or mixing, but not to exceed 3 percent of the total weight of all ingredients including the water.

(3) Red or green peppers, or both.

(4) Dehydrated or fresh onions, garlic, and parsley.

(5) Sugar, dextrose, corn syrup, corn syrup solids, and glucose syrup.

(6) Monosodium glutamate and antioxidants in accordance with the chart of substances a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR chapter III, subchapter E, or in 21 CFR chapter I, subchapter A or subchapter B.

(c) If Italian sausage products are cooked or smoked, determination of compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be based on the uncooked or unsmoked product. The product before cooking or smoking shall contain no more than 3 percent water as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Product which is cooked shall be labeled with the word "cooked" in the product name, such as "Cooked Italian Sausage" or "Cooked Cured Italian Sausage." Product which is smoked shall be labeled with the word "smoked" in the product name, such as "Smoked Italian Sausage" or "Smoked Cured Italian Sausage." The words "cooked" and "smoked" shall be displayed on the product label in the same size and style of lettering as other words in the product name.
