
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 319 - DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS OF IDENTITY OR COMPOSITION
##### Subpart L - Meat Specialties, Puddings and Nonspecific Loaves
###### ยง 319.281 Bockwurst.

(a) Bockwurst is an uncured, comminuted meat food product which may or may not be cooked. It contains meat, milk or water or a combination thereof, eggs, vegetables, and any of the optional ingredients listed in paragraph (b) of this section; and is prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section.

(1) Meat shall constitute not less than 70 percent of the total weight of the product and shall consist of pork or a mixture of pork and veal, pork and beef, or pork, veal, and beef. Such meat shall be fresh or fresh frozen meat. Pork may be omitted when the specie or species of meat used in the product is identified in the product name (e.g., Veal Bockwurst, Beef Bockwurst, or Beef and Veal Bockwurst). Mechanically Separated (Species) may be used in accordance with ยง 319.6.

(2) The "milk" may be fresh whole milk, dried milk, nonfat dry milk, calcium reduced dried skim milk, enzyme (rennet) treated calcium reduced dried skim milk and calcium lactate, or any combination thereof.

(3) "Eggs" refer to whole eggs that are fresh, frozen, or dried.

(4) "Vegetables" refer to onions, chives, parsley, and leeks, alone or in any combination.

(b) Bockwurst may contain one or more of the following optional ingredients:

(1) Pork fat.

(2) Celery, fresh or dehydrated.

(3) Spices, flavorings.

(4) Salt.

(5) Egg whites, fresh, frozen, or dried.

(6) Corn syrup solids, corn syrup, or glucose syrup with a maximum limit of 2 percent individually or collectively, calculated on a dry basis. The maximum quantities of such ingredients shall be computed on the basis of the total weight of the ingredients.

(7) Autolyzed yeast extract, hydrolyzed plant protein, milk protein hydrolysate, and monosodium glutamate.

(8) Sugars (sucrose and dextrose).

(9) Binders and extenders may be added as provided in ยง 424.21(c) of subchapter E. When any such substance is added to bockwurst, the substance shall be designated in the ingredients statement by its common or usual name in order of predominance.

(c) If bockwurst is cooked or partially cooked, the composition of the raw mix from which it is prepared shall be used in determining whether it meets the requirements of this section.
