
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 319 - DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS OF IDENTITY OR COMPOSITION
##### Subpart P - Fats, Oils, Shortenings
############# ยง 319.700 Margarine or oleomargarine.

(a) Margarine or oleomargarine is the food in plastic form or liquid emulsion, containing not less than 80 percent fat determined by the method prescribed under ยง 938.06 (Chapter 33) of the "Indirect Methods" in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists", 15th edition, 1990.The "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 15th edition, 1990, is incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. It is produced from one or more of the ingredients designated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and one or more of the ingredients designated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to which may be added one or more of the optional ingredients designated in paragraph (b) of this section. Margarine or oleomargarine contains Vitamin A as provided for in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(1) Edible fats and oils or mixtures of these, whose origin is vegetable or rendered animal fats from cattle, sheep, swine or goats.

(2)(i) Water; milk; milk products including, but not limited to, the liquid, condensed, or dry form of whey, reduced lactose whey, reduced minerals whey, or whey protein concentrate, non-lactose-containing whey components, casein, or caseinate; or other suitable edible protein, including albumin, vegetable proteins, or soy protein isolate; or any mixture of two or more of the articles designated in this subparagraph, in amounts not greater than reasonably required to accomplish the desired effect.

(ii) The articles designated in this subparagraph shall be pasteurized and then may be subjected to the action of harmless bacterial starters. One or more of the articles designated in this subparagraph is intimately mixed with the edible fat or oil ingredients, or both, to form a solidified or liquid emulsion.

(3) Vitamin A in such quantity that the finished margarine or oleomargarine contains not less than 15,000 International Units (IU) of ViTamin A per pound or 33,000 IU per kilogram.

(b)(1) Vitamin D in such quantity that the finished margarine or oleomargarine contains not less than 1,500 IU of Vitamin D per pound or 3,300 IU per kilogram.

(2) Salt (sodium chloride); or potassium chloride for dietary margarine or oleomargarine.

(3) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.

(4) Emulsifiers identified in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, or in 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A or Subchapter B, within these maximum amounts in percent by weight of the finished food: Mono- and diglycerides of fatty acids esterified with any or all of the following acids: acetic, acetyltartaric, citric, lactic, tartaric, and their sodium and calcium salts, 0.5 percent; such mono- and diglycerides in combination with the sodium sulfoacetate derivatives thereof, 0.5 percent; polyglycerol esters of fatty acids, 0.5 percent; 1,2-propylene glycol esters of fatty acids, 2 percent; lecithin, 0.5 percent.

(5) Preservatives identified in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, or in 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A or Subchapter B, within these maximum amounts in percent by weight of the finished food: Sorbic acid, benzoic acid and their sodium, potassium, and calcium salts, individually, 0.1 percent, or in combination, 0.2 percent, expressed as the acids; calcium disodium EDTA, 0.0075 percent; stearyl citrate, 0.15 percent; isopropyl citrate mixture, 0.02 percent.

(6) Antioxidants identified in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, or in 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A or Subchapter B, within these maximum amounts in percent by weight of the finished food: propyl, octyl and dodecyl gallates, BHT (butylated hydroxytoluene), BHA (butylated hydroxyanisole), ascorbyl palmitate, ascorbyl stearate, all individually or in combination, 0.02 percent. Instead of these antioxidants, TBHQ (tertiary butylhydroquinone), alone or in combination only with BHT and/or BHA, with a maximum 0.02 percent by weight of the fat and oil content.

(7) Coloring agents identified in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, or in 21 CFR Parts 73, 74, 81, or 82, in amounts sufficient for purpose.For the purpose of this subparagraph, provitamine A (beta-carotene) shall also be deemed to be a coloring agent.

(8) Flavoring substances in amounts sufficient for purpose.

(9) Acidulants identified in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, or in 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A or Subchapter B, in amounts sufficient for purpose: adipic acid; citric and lactic acids and their potassium and sodium salts; phosphoric acid; L-tartaric acid and its sodium and sodium-potassium salts; and hydrochloric acid.

(10) Alkalizers identified in a regulation permitting that use in this subchapter or in 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, or in 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A or Subchapter B, in amounts sufficient for purpose: potassium bicarbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, and sodium hydroxide.

(11) For the purposes of this section, the term "milk" unqualified means milk from cows. If any milk other than cow's milk is used in whole or in part, the animal source shall be identified in conjunction with the word "milk" in the ingredient statement.
