
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 321 - COOPERATION WITH STATES AND TERRITORIES
##### ยง 321.3 Cooperation of States for the interstate shipment of carcasses, parts of carcasses, meat, and meat food products.
###### ยง 322.2 Export certification.

(a) Exporters must apply for export certification of inspected and passed products shipped to any foreign country. Exporters may apply for an export certificate using a paper or electronic application. FSIS will assess exporters that submit an electronic application the charge in ยง 350.7(e) of this chapter.

(b) FSIS will issue only one certificate for each consignment, except in the case of error in the certificate or loss of the certificate originally issued. A request for a replacement certificate, except in the case of a lost certificate, must be accompanied by the original certificate. The new certificate will carry the following statement: "Issued in replacement of ______", with the numbers of the certificates that have been superseded.

(c) FSIS will deliver a copy of the certificate to the exporter. The exporter may furnish the copy of the certificate to the consignee for purposes of affecting the entry of product into the foreign country of destination.

(d) FSIS will retain a copy of the certificate.

(e) Exporters may request inspection personnel to issue certificates for export consignments of product of official establishments not under their supervision, provided the consignments are first identified as having been "U.S. inspected and passed," are found to be neither adulterated nor misbranded, and are marked as required by ยง 322.1.
