
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 325 - TRANSPORTATION
##### ยง 325.1 Transactions in commerce prohibited without official inspection legend or certificate when required; exceptions; and vehicle sanitation requirements.

(a) No person shall sell, transport, offer for sale or transportation, or receive for transportation, in commerce, any product which is capable of use as human food unless the product and its container, if any, bear the official inspection legend as required under parts 316 and 317 of this subchapter or such product is exempted from the requirement of inspection under part 303 of this subchapter.

(b)(1) No carrier shall transport or receive for transportation in commerce (including transportation in the course of importation) and no person shall offer for transportation any carcass, part thereof, meat or meat food product until a certificate, if required for such transportation by this part, is made and furnished to the carrier in one of the forms prescribed in this part.

(2) Product imported into the United States may be transported and offerred or received for transportation if such product is conveyed in railroad cars, trucks or other means of conveyance, prior to inspection, to an authorized place of inspection, as provided in ยง 327.6 of this part.

(c) No person, engaged in the business of buying, selling, freezing, storing, or transporting, in or for commerce, meat or meat food products capable of use as human food, or importing such articles, shall transport, offer for transportation, or receive for transportation in commerce or in any State designated under ยง 331.2 of this subchapter, any such meat or meat food product which is capable of use as human food and is not wrapped, packaged, or otherwise enclosed to prevent adulteration by airborne contaminants, unless the railroad car, truck, or other means of conveyance in which the product is contained or transported is completely enclosed with tight fitting doors or other covers for all openings. In all cases, the means of conveyance shall be reasonably free of foreign matter (such as dust, dirt, rust, or other articles or residues), and free of chemical residues, so that product placed therein will not become adulterated. Any cleaning compound, lye, soda solution, or other chemical used in cleaning the means of conveyance must be thoroughly removed from the means of conveyance prior to its use. Such means of conveyance onto which product is loaded, being loaded, or intended to be loaded, shall be subject to inspection by an inspector at any official establishment. The decision whether or not to inspect a means of conveyance in a specific case, and the type and extent of such inspection shall be at the Program's discretion and shall be adequate to determine if product in such conveyance is, or when moved could become, adulterated. Circumstances of transport that can be reasonably anticipated shall be considered in making said determination. These include, but are not limited to, weather conditions, duration and distance of trip, nature of product covering, and effect of restowage at stops en route. Any means of conveyance found upon such inspection to be in such condition that product placed therein could become adulterated shall not be used until such condition which could cause adulteration is corrected. Product placed in any means of conveyance that is found by the inspector to be in such condition that the product may have become adulterated shall be removed from the means of conveyance and handled in accordance with ยง 318.2(d) of this subchapter.
