
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 325 - TRANSPORTATION
##### ยง 325.5 Unmarked inspected product transported under official seal between official establishments for further processing; certificate.

(a) Any product which has been inspected and passed may be transported from one official establishment to another for further processing without each article being marked with the official inspection legend, if it is so transported in a railroad car, motortruck, or other means of conveyance which is sealed by a Program employee with an official seal of the Department prescribed in ยง 312.5(a) of this subchapter. Unless 25 percent or more of the contents of each car or other means of conveyance consists of product not marked with the inspection legend, transportation will not be permitted under this paragraph.

(b) When articles are offered for transportation under paragraph (a) of this section, the initial carrier shall require, and the shipper shall make in duplicate and deliver to the carrier, one copy of a certificate in the following form:

(c) The signature of the shipper or his agent shall be written in full. This certificate may be stamped upon or incorporated in any form ordinarily used in the transportation of product. Certificates in this form or copies thereof need not be forwarded to any official or office of the Department. The original of the certificate required by this section shall be retained by the carrier and a copy shall be retained by the shipper in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter. If the shipper is also the carrier, he shall nevertheless execute and retain the certificate in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter.
