
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 325 - TRANSPORTATION
##### ยง 325.7 Shipment of products requiring special supervision between official establishments under official seal; certificate.
###### Provided,

(a) Products passed for cooking, and beef that is to be refrigerated to destroy cysticerci, may be shipped loose from one official establishment to any other official establishment, for further handling in accordance with part 318 of this subchapter, in railroad cars, trucks, or other means of conveyance sealed with the official seal of the Department as prescribed in ยง 325.16:That in the case of railroad cars, the receiving establishment has railroad facilities for unloading the products directly into the establishment.

(b) When such restricted product is shipped from one official establishment to another official establishment in the same railroad car or other means of conveyance with other product, such restricted product shall be packed in individual closed containers as hereinafter provided. Containers shall be sealed by firmly applying a pressure sensitive tape around each container in two directions and stamping the intersection of the tape with the marking device described in ยง 312.2(a) of this subchapter for use on burlap, muslin, etc. (2-inch rubber brand). Such tape must possess the adhesive property to actually remove a portion of the container surface when the tape is removed. Alternatively, an inelastic, nonmetallic strap which will retain a legible imprint of the marking device (2-inch rubber brand) may be used. The imprint of the marking device shall be placed partially on the strap and partially on the container. Such restricted product shall be marked "U.S. passed for cooking" or "pork product ____ &#xB0;F. ____days refrigeration" or "beef passed for refrigeration," as the case may be. In addition, a "U.S. retained" tag shall be securely affixed to each container of product passed for cooking and of beef passed for refrigeration. The means of conveyance shall not be sealed unless at least 25 percent of the other product in the vehicle is unmarked. For each consignment there shall be promptly issued and forwarded by the inspector to the inspector in charge at destination, a report on the form entitled "Notice of Unmarked Meats Shipped in Sealed Cars," appropriately modified to show the character of the containers, and that the contents are restricted. A duplicate copy shall be retained in the program files.

(c) When products are offered for transportation under this section, the initial carrier shall require and the shipper shall make in duplicate and deliver to the carrier one copy of a certificate in the form set out in ยง 325.5(b). Certificates in this form or copies thereof need not be forwarded to any official or office of the Department, but the original of the certificate shall be retained by the carrier and a copy shall be retained by the shipper in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter. If the shipper is also the carrier, he shall nevertheless execute and retain the certificate in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter.
