
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 325 - TRANSPORTATION
##### ยง 325.18 Diverting of shipments, breaking of seals, and reloading by carrier in emergency; reporting to Regional Director.

(a) Shipments of inspected and passed product that bear the inspection legend may be diverted from the original destination without a reinspection of the articles, provided the waybills, transfer bills, running slips, conductor's card, or other papers accompanying the shipments are marked, stamped, or have attached thereto signed statements in accordance with ยง 325.15.

(b) In case of wreck or similar extraordinary emergency, the Department seals on a railroad car or other means of conveyance containing any inspected and passed product may be broken by the carrier, and if necessary, the articles may be reloaded into another means of conveyance, or the shipment may be diverted from the original destination, without another shipper's certificate; but in all such cases the carrier shall immediately report the facts by telephone or telegraph to the Regional Director in the area in which the emergency occurs. Such report shall include the following information:

(1) Nature of the emergency.

(2) Place where seals were broken.

(3) Original points of shipment and destination.

(4) Number and initial of the original car or truck.

(5) Number and initials of the car or truck into which the articles are reloaded.

(6) New destination of the shipment.

(7) Kind and amount of articles.
