
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 327 - IMPORTED PRODUCTS
##### ยง 327.23 Compliance procedure for cured pork products offered for entry.
###### Normal monitoring procedures.

(b)Except for product imported from Canada, the Department shall collect sample(s) of cured pork product on a random basis from lots offered for entry at the Port of Entry and, after analyzing the sample for fat and indigenous protein content, calculate the PFF percentage. The product shall not be held pending laboratory results during the monitoring phase. The PFF percentage for each sample shall be considered along with the cumulative results of prior samples to assess the effectiveness of a country's overall compliance program and to determine the course of action for subsequent lots of product.

(1) Factors determining whether a country's inspection system is functioning adequately:

(i) The PFF percentage for each sample must not be below the minimum PFF requirement by 2.3 percentage points for cured pork products in Groups I and II or 2.7 percentage points for cured pork products in Groups III and IV.

(ii) Both of the PFF Standardized Averages, Arithmetic and Weighted, for the last 100 consecutive lots of all cured pork products from the country must be equal to or greater than zero. The count for the 100 consecutive lots starts with the lots arriving from that country after April 15, 1985.

(iii) Both of the PFF Standardized Averages, Arithmetic and Weighted, for the last 36 consecutive lots of all cured pork products from the country must be above the lowest 5 percent of the Normal distribution. This minimum value is minus 0.28 (-0.28) for the Arithmetic Average and depends on the production volume for the Weighted Average.

(2) Actions when calculations indicate that processing procedures in a country are out-of-compliance:

(i) If the PFF level of a sample taken during normal monitoring procedures is found to be as low as the Absolute Minimum PFF Requirement, the country of origin shall be notified; the lot involved shall be retained if still available in an official establishment or subject to detention or other actions pursuant to the Act; and all subsequently presented lots of that cured pork product from the same foreign establishment shall be held under retention until the provisions of paragraph (c) are satisfied.

(ii) If either of the PFF Standardized Averages, Arithmetic or Weighted, for the last 100 consecutive lots falls below zero or either of the PFF Standardized Averages for the last 36 consecutive lots falls below the upper 95 percent of the Normal distribution, all available cured pork product from the foreign country shall be subject to administrative retention and all subsequently presented lots of cured pork product from the foreign country shall be held under retention until the provisions of paragraph (c) are satisfied. The country of origin shall be notified, and shall be subject to other actions pursuant to the Act.
