
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 327 - IMPORTED PRODUCTS
##### § 327.26 Official import inspection marks and devices.

(a) When import inspections are performed in official import inspection establishments, the official inspection legend to be applied to imported meat and meat food products shall be in the appropriate formas herein specified.

For application to cattle, sheep, swine, and goat carcasses, primal parts, and cuts, not in containers.

For application to outside containers of meat and meat food products prepared from cattle, sheep, swine, and goats.

For application to horse carcasses, primal parts, and cuts, not in containers.

For application to outside containers of horsemeat food products.

For application to mule and other (nonhorse) equine carcasses, primal parts, and cuts, not in containers.

For application to outside containers of equine meat food products.

(b) Except for product offered for entry from Canada, when import inspections are performed in official establishments the official inspection legend to be applied to meat and meat food products offered for entry shall be the appropriate form as specified in §§ 312.2 and 312.3 of this subchapter.

(c) When products are refused entry into the United States, the official mark to be applied to the products refused entry shall be in the following form:

(d) Devices for applying "United States Refused Entry" marks shall be furnished to Program inspectors by the Department.

(e) The ordering and manufacture of brands containing official inspection legends shall be in accordance with the provisions contained in § 317.3(c) of the Federal meat inspection regulations.
