
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 335 - RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE FEDERAL MEAT INSPECTION ACT
##### Subpart A - Criminal Violations
###### ยง 335.40 Opportunity for presentation of views before report of criminal violations.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section, before any violation of the Federal Meat Inspection Act is reported to the Department of Justice by the Secretary for criminal prosecution the Secretary must give reasonable notice to the suspected violator that the Secretary intends to report the violation for prosecution and give the suspected violator an opportunity to present the violator's views to the Secretary with respect to such proceeding.

(1) Notice and opportunity need not be provided if the Secretary has any reason to believe that providing such notice and opportunity could result in the alteration or destruction of evidence, or where disclosure could result in injury to persons or property.

(2) Notice and opportunity need not be provided if the Secretary has any reason to believe that providing such notice and opportunity could result in flight of a suspected violator to avoid prosecution.

(3) Notice and opportunity need not be provided if the Secretary has any reason to believe that providing such notice and opportunity could result in compromising special investigative techniques, such as undercover or other covert operations.

(4) Notice and opportunity need not be provided when the impending criminal referral involves suspicion of bribery and related offenses, or clandestine slaughtering and/or processing operations.

(5) Notice and opportunity need not be provided when the impending referral is part of an investigation involving non-Act violations, and the Act and non-Act violations are jointly referred for prosecution.

(b) A notice of opportunity to present views will be sent by registered or certified mail, summarize the violations that constitute the basis of the contemplated prosecution, and describe the procedures for presentation of views. Any information given by a respondent, orally or in writing, shall become part of the Department's official record concerning the matter. The Department is under no obligation to disclose evidence to the suspected violator.
