
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Animal Welfare
#### PART 11 - HORSE PROTECTION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 11.22 Records required and disposition thereof.

(a) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, that contains Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, shall maintain for a period of at least 90 days following the closing date of said show, exhibition, or sale or auction, all pertinent records containing:

(1) The dates and place of the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.

(2) The name and address (including street address or post office box number and ZIP code) of the sponsoring organization.

(3) The name and address of the horse show, exhibition, horse sale or horse auction management.

(4) The name and address (including street address or post office box number and ZIP code) of the DQP, if any, employed to conduct inspections under ยง 11.20; and, the name of the horse industry organization or association certifying the DQP.

(5) The name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP code) of each show judge.

(6) A copy of each class or sale sheet containing the names of horses, the names and addresses (including street address, post office box and ZIP code) of horse owners, the exhibitor number and class number, or sale number assigned to each horse, the show class or sale lot number, and the name and address (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the person paying the entry fee and entering the horse in a horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction.

(7) A copy of the official horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction program, if any such program has been prepared.

(8) The identification of each horse, including the name of the horse, the name and address (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the owner, the trainer, the rider or other exhibitor, and the location (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the home barn or other facility where the horse is stabled.

(b) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction containing Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses shall designate a person to maintain the records required in this section.

(c) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction containing Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses shall furnish to any APHIS representative, upon request, the name and address (including street address, or post office box, and ZIP code) of the person designated by the sponsoring organization or manager to maintain the records required by this section.

(d) The Administrator may, in specific cases, require that a horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction records be maintained by management for a period in excess of 90 days.
