
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 352 - EXOTIC ANIMALS AND HORSES; VOLUNTARY INSPECTION
##### Subpart A - Exotic Animals
###### ยง 352.6 Denial or withdrawal of inspection service.
####### Procedure.

(c)(1) An application or request for service may be denied or benefits of the service may be withdrawn by the Secretary, as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, after notice and opportunity for hearing before a designated official of the Department. The Administrator may suspend service under this paragraph without hearing, pending final determination of the matter, when he determines that the public health, interest or safety so requires. The applicant or recipient shall be notified of the Administrator's decision to suspend service, and the reasons therefor, in writing or orally. The Administrator's decision to suspend service under this part shall be effective upon such an oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the applicant or recipient. If such notification is oral, the Administrator shall confirm such decision, and the reasons therefor, in writing, as promptly as circumstances permit, and such written confirmation shall be served upon the applicant or recipient in the manner prescribed in 1.147(b) of Departmental rules of practice (7 CFR 1.147(b)).

(2) The written notification specified in paragraph (c) of this section, which shall constitute the complaint in the proceeding, shall briefly set forth the reason for the denial or withdrawal of service, including allegations of fact which constitute a basis for the action. After the complaint is served upon the respondent, as provided in ยง 1.147(b) of Departmental rules of practice (7 CFR 1.147(b)), the proceeding shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with rules of practice which shall be adopted for the proceeding.
