
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 352 - EXOTIC ANIMALS AND HORSES; VOLUNTARY INSPECTION
##### Subpart A - Exotic Animals
###### ยง 352.7 Marking and labeling of inspected products.

Wording and form of inspection mark. This wording shall be contained within a triangle in the form and arrangement shown in this section. The establishment number of the official establishment shall be included in the triangle unless it appears elsewhere on the packaging material. Ordering and manufacture of the triangle brand shall be in accordance with the provisions in 9 CFR 317.3(c) of the Federal meat inspection regulations. The Administrator may approve the use of abbreviations of such inspection mark, and such approved abbreviations shall have the same force and effect as the inspection mark. The inspection mark or approved abbreviation shall be applied, under the supervision of the inspector, to the inspected and passed edible product, packaging material, immediate container or shipping container. When the inspection mark or approved abbreviation is used on packaging material, immediate container or shipping container, it shall be printed on such material or container or on a label to be affixed to the packaging material or container. The name and address of the packer or distributor of such product shall be printed on the packaging material or label. The inspection marks may be stenciled on the container, and when the inspection mark is so stenciled, the name and address of the packer or distributor may be applied by the use of a stencil or rubber stamp. The name and address of the packer or distributor, if prominently shown elsewhere on the packaging material or container, may be omitted from insert labels which bear an official identification if the applicable establishment number is shown. All labels intended for use on inspected and passed exotic animal products must be approved in accordance with Part 412 of this chapter.

(a) The inspection mark to be applied to inspected and passed carcasses and parts of carcasses of an exotic animal, and products as therefrom approved by the Administrator, shall be in the form and arrangement as indicated in the example below.The establishment number of the official establishment shall be set forth if it does not appear on the packaging material or container.

(1) For application to exotic animal carcasses, primal parts and cuts therefrom, exotic animal livers, exotic animal tongues, and exotic animal hearts.

(2) For application to exotic animal calf carcasses.

(3) For application to exotic animal tails.

(4) For application to burlap, muslin, cheesecloth, heavy paper, or other acceptable material that encloses carcasses or parts of carcasses.

(b) The official inspection mark to be shown on all labels.(1) For inspected and passed products of an exotic animal shall be in the following form, except that it need not be of the size illustrated, provided that it is a sufficient size and of such color as to be conspicuously displayed and readily legible and the same proportions of letter size and boldness are maintained as illustrated:

(2) This official mark shall be applied by mechanical means and shall not be applied by a hand stamp.

(3) The official inspection legend described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall also be used on shipping containers, bond labels, artificial casings, and other articles with the approval of the Administrator.

(c) Any brand, stamp, label or other device approved by the Administrator and bearing any official mark prescribed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be an official device for purposes of the Act.
