
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 354 - VOLUNTARY INSPECTION OF RABBITS AND EDIBLE PRODUCTS THEREOF
##### Application for Inspection Service
###### ยง 354.31 How application for service may be made; conditions of resident service.

(a) On a fee basis. An application for any inspection service on a fee basis may be made in any office of inspection or with any inspector at or nearest the place where the service is desired. Such application may be made orally (in person or by telephone), in writing, or by telegraph. If the application for inspection service is made orally, the office of inspection or the inspector with whom the application is made, or the Administrator, may require that the application be confirmed in writing.

(b) On a resident inspection basis. An application for resident inspection service must be made in writing on forms approved by the Administrator and filed with the Administrator. Such forms may be obtained at the national, area, or State inspection office. In making application, the applicant agrees to comply with the terms and conditions of the regulations (including, but not being limited to, such instructions governing inspection of products as may be issued from time to time by the Administrator). No member of or delegate to Congress or Resident Commissioner shall be admitted to any benefit that may arise from such service unless derived through service rendered a corporation for its general benefit.
