
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 354 - VOLUNTARY INSPECTION OF RABBITS AND EDIBLE PRODUCTS THEREOF
##### Identifying and Marking Products
###### ยง 354.63 Marking inspected products.
####### Wording and form of inspection mark.

(a)Except as otherwise authorized, the inspection mark permitted to be used with respect to inspected and certified edible products shall include wording as follows: "Inspected for Wholesomeness by U.S. Department of Agriculture." This wording shall be contained within a circle in the form and arrangement shown in ยง 354.65. The appropriate plant number of the official plant shall be included in the circle unless it appears elsewhere on the packaging material. The Administrator may approve the use of abbreviations of such inspection mark, and such approved abbreviations shall have the same force and effect as the inspection mark. The inspection mark or approved abbreviation thereof, as the case may be, may be applied to the inspected and certified edible product or to the packaging material of such product. When the inspection mark, or the approved abbreviation thereof, is used on packaging material, it shall be printed on such material or on a label to be affixed to the packaging material and the name of the packer or distributor of such product shall be printed on the packaging material or label, as the case may be, except that on shipping containers and containers for institutional packs, the inspection marks may be stenciled on the container and, when the inspection mark is so stenciled, the name and address of the packer or distributor may be applied by the use of a stencil or a rubber stamp. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the name and address of the packer or distributor, if appropriately shown elsewhere on the packaging material, may be omitted from insert labels which bear an official identification if the applicable plant number is shown.
