
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 354 - VOLUNTARY INSPECTION OF RABBITS AND EDIBLE PRODUCTS THEREOF
##### Buildings and Plant Facilities
###### ยง 354.223 Drainage and plumbing.
####### Sewage and plant wastes.

(b)(1) The sewerage system shall have adequate slope and capacity to remove readily all waste from the various processing operations and to minimize, and if possible to prevent, stoppage and surcharging of the system.

(2) Grease traps which are connected with the sewerage system shall be suitably located but not near any edible products department or in any area where products are unloaded from or loaded into vehicles. To facilitate cleaning, such traps shall have inclined bottoms and be provided with suitable covers.

(3) Toilet soil lines shall be separate from house drainage lines to a point outside the buildings unless they are positively trapped to prevent backing up. Drainage from toilet bowls and urinals shall not be discharged into a grease catch basin.

(4) All floor drains shall be equipped with traps, constructed so as to minimize clogging, and the plumbing shall be so installed as to prevent sewerage from backing up and from flooding the floor.

(5) Floor drainage lines should be of metal and at least 4 inches in diameter and open into main drains of at least 6 inches in diameter and shall be properly vented to outside air.

(6) Where refrigerators are equipped with drains, such drains should be properly trapped and should discharge through an air gap into the sewer system. All new installations, and all replacements, or refrigerators equipped with drains shall meet these requirements.
