
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 362 - VOLUNTARY POULTRY INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### § 362.2 Types and availability of service.
###### Identification Service.

(c)(1) Poultry or other product that is federally inspected and passed at an official establishment, or upon importation, under the Poultry Products Inspection Act, is officially marked to identify it as federally inspected and passed. In order to facilitate the division of such poultry or other product into smaller portions or its combination into larger units and still maintain its identify as product which has been federally inspected and passed and so marked, inspectors may supervise the handling and weighing of the product and mark such portions and units with the official mark of inspection when they determine that identify has been maintained.

(2) At the time service is furnished, product must be sound, wholesome, and fit for human food. The service will be available only on premises other than those of an official establishment. The sanitation of the place or area where service is furnished must comply with provisions of §§ 416.1 through 416.6 of this chapter.

(3) The mark of inspection shall be applied only under the immediate supervision of an inspector.

(4) This service does not cover further cutting and processing of products. These activities must take place at an official establishment.

(5) The registration and recordkeeping requirements enumerated in Part 381, subpart Q, of this chapter shall apply to persons requesting voluntary identification service under this paragraph (c).
