
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - Facilities for Inspection; Overtime and Holiday Service; Billing Establishments
###### ยง 381.36 Facilities required.
####### Facilities for post-mortem inspection under the New Poultry Inspection System.

(f)The following facilities requirements apply to establishments operating under the New Poultry Inspection System and are in addition to the requirements for obtaining a grant of inspection.

(1) The following provisions apply to the online carcass inspection station:

(i) On each production line, at a point before the chiller and after the establishment has completed all sorting, trimming, and reprocessing activities necessary to comply with ยง 381.76(b)(6)(ii), at least 4 feet of floor space along the conveyor line must be provided for one online carcass inspection station.

(ii) The conveyor line must be level for the entire length of the online carcass inspection station. The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the top of the platform (paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section) must not be less than 60 inches.

(iii) Each online carcass inspection station must have a platform that is slip-resistant and can be safely accessed by the inspector. The platform must be designed so that it can be easily and rapidly adjusted for a minimum of 14 inches vertically while standing on the platform. The platform must be a minimum length of 4 feet and have a minimum width of 2 feet. The platform must be designed with a 42-inch high rail on the back side and with-inch foot bumpers on both sides and front to allow safe working conditions. The platform must have a safe lift mechanism and be large enough for the inspector to sit on a stool and to change stations during breaks or station rotation.

(iv) Conveyor line stop/start switches must be located within easy reach of the online carcass inspector.

(v) A minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index value of 85 must be provided where the birds are inspected to facilitate online carcass inspection.

(vi) Hand rinsing facilities must be provided for use by and within easy reach of the online carcass inspector. The hand rinsing facilities must have a continuous flow of water or be capable of being immediately activated and deactivated in a hands-free manner, must minimize any splash effect, and must otherwise operate in a sanitary manner that prevents contamination of carcasses and inspector clothing. The hand rinsing facilities must provide water at a temperature between 65 and 120 degrees Fahrenheit.

(vii) A separate clipboard holder for holding recording sheets must be provided for and within easy reach of the online carcass inspector.

(viii) Receptacles for condemned carcasses and parts that comply with the performance standards in ยง 416.3(c) of this chapter must be provided at each online carcass inspection station.

(ix) Hangback racks designed to hold at least 10 carcasses must be provided and positioned within easy reach of the online carcass inspector.

(x) A buzzer shall be located within easy reach of the online carcass inspector to be used by the carcass inspector to alert the inspector-in-charge, offline inspectors, or establishment management of conditions that require their attention.

(2) The following provisions apply to pre-chill and post-chill offline verification inspection stations:

(i) One or more offline verification inspection stations must be located at the end of the line or lines prior to the chiller. One or more offline verification inspection stations must also be located after the chiller or chillers. The Agency will determine the total number of offline verification inspection stations needed in establishments having more than one processing line or more than one chiller.

(ii) Floor space for all offline verification inspection stations must consist of a minimum of 3 feet along each conveyor line and after each chiller, as applicable, to allow carcasses to be removed for evaluation by the verification inspector. The space must be level and protected from all traffic and overhead obstructions.

(iii) At the pre-chill location, the vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the floor must not be less than 48 inches.

(iv) At each offline verification inspection station, a table designed to be readily cleanable and drainable must be provided for offline verification inspectors to conduct offline verification activities. At turkey slaughter establishments, the table must be at least 3 feet wide, 2 feet deep, and 3 feet high. At all other poultry slaughter establishments, the table must be at least 2 feet wide, 2 feet deep, and 3 feet high

(v) A minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index of 85 on the table surface must be provided.

(vi) The establishment must provide a separate clipboard holder for holding recording sheets; or alternatively, the establishment may provide electronic means for the offline verification inspector to record inspection results.

(vii) Hangback racks designed to hold at least 10 carcasses must be provided and positioned within easy reach of the offline verification inspector.

(viii) Hand washing facilities must be provided within easy access of all offline verification inspection stations.

(3) Each young chicken establishment operating under the New Poultry Inspection System must provide a location at a point along the production line after the carcasses are eviscerated at which an inspector may safely and properly inspect for leukosis the first 300 carcasses of each flock together with associated viscera either uniformly trailing or leading, or otherwise identified with the corresponding carcass. The leukosis inspection area must provide a minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting on the surface where the viscera are inspected.

(4) A trough or other similar drainage facility must extend beneath the conveyor at all places where processing operations are conducted from the point where the carcass is opened to the point where trimming has been performed. The trough must be of sufficient width to preclude trimmings, drippage, and debris from accumulating on the floor or platforms. The clearance between suspended carcasses and the trough must be sufficient to preclude contamination of carcasses by splashing.
