
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - Facilities for Inspection; Overtime and Holiday Service; Billing Establishments
###### ยง 381.37 Schedule of operations.
####### Provided,

(c) Official establishments, importers, and exporters shall be provided inspection service, without charge, up to 8 hours per shift during the basic workweek subject to the provisions of ยง 381.38:That any additional shifts meet requirements as determined by the Administrator or his designee. The basic workweek shall consist of 5 consecutive 8-hour days within the administrative workweek Sunday through Saturday, except that, when possible, the Department shall schedule the basic workweek so as to consist of 5 consecutive 8-hour days Monday through Friday. The 8-hour day excludes the lunch period but shall include activities deemed necessary by the Agency to fully carry out an inspection program, including the time for FSIS inspection program personnel to put on required gear, pick up required forms and walk to a work station; and the time for FSIS inspection program personnel to return from a work station, drop off required forms, and remove required gear; and to conduct duties scheduled by FSIS, including administrative duties. The Department may depart from the basic workweek in those cases where maintaining such a schedule would seriously handicap the Department in carrying out its functions. These provisions are applicable to all official establishments except in certain cases as provided in ยง 381.145(h) of this subchapter.

(d)(1) Each official establishment shall submit a work schedule to the area supervisor for approval. In consideration of whether the approval of an establishment work schedule shall be given, the area supervisor shall take in account the efficient and effective use of inspection personnel. The work schedule must specify the workweek, daily clock hours of operation, and lunch periods for all departments of the establishment requiring inspection.
