
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### b

() The Administrator determines that the establishment meets all the facility requirements in ยง 381.36(e).

(iv) The NPIS may be used for young chickens and turkeys if the official establishment requests to use it and meets or agrees to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section and the Administrator approves the establishment's request. The Administrator may permit establishments that slaughter classes of poultry other than young chickens and turkeys to operate under the New Poultry Inspection System under a waiver from the provisions of the regulations as provided in ยง 381.3(b).

(v) Traditional Inspection shall be used for turkeys when neither the NTI System nor the NPIS is used. For other classes of poultry, Traditional Inspection shall be used when SIS, NELS, and the NPIS are not used.

(2) Official establishments that operate under Traditional Inspection, SIS, NELS, NTI, or Ratite Inspection must meet the following requirements:

(i) No viscera or any part thereof may be removed from any poultry processed in any official establishment, except at the time of post-mortem inspection, unless its identity with the rest of the carcass is maintained in a manner satisfactory to the inspector until such inspection is made.

(ii) Each carcass to be eviscerated must be opened so as to expose the organs and the body cavity for proper examination by the inspector.

(iii) If a carcass is frozen, it must be thoroughly thawed before being opened for examination by an inspector.

(3) The following requirements are applicable to SIS:
