
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### c

() Under all inspection systems, including SIS, inspectors conduct post-mortem inspection and look for a number of conditions, as specified elsewhere in this subpart, which may indicate adulteration. Adulterated product is condemned and destroyed, except that carcasses and parts which may be made unadulterated by reprocessing (reworking) may be so reprocessed under the supervision of an inspector and reinspected. Under SIS, inspectors also reinspect product by sampling finished birds (both before and after chilling) for nonconformances with finished product standards (see Table 1). If such nonconformances are present at certain statistical levels, it may indicate process difficulties requiring corrective action by the establishment. If the establishment does not take adequate corrective action, the inspector shall initiate corrective actions such as conducting closer post-mortem inspections and requiring reprocessing and reinspection of previously processed carcasses and parts. Thus, SIS is conducted in two phases-a post-mortem inspection phase and a reinspection phase. The following paragraphs describe the inspection requirements (not addressed elsewhere in this subpart) under each.
