
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### c

() Finished Product Standards: Finished Product Standards (FPS) are criteria applied to processed birds before and after chill to ensure that the product being produced is consistently wholesome and unadulterated. These criteria consist of nonconformances (listed in Table 1), the incidence of which is determined from 10 bird subgroup samples, reduced to a CUSUM number, and measured against the standards (Table 2). The standards are applied to permit the Agency to estimate when the production process is in control and when it is out of control. The establishment is responsible for maintaining FPS which, in turn, is monitored by the inspector. FPS is applied in two separate parts. The first is called prechill testing. It is designed to ensure that the slaughter and evisceration procedures are in control. Compliance is measured by determining the CUSUM on consecutive 10-bird subgroup samples collected prior to product entering the chilling system. The second part of the FPS is called postchill testing. It is designed to monitor the production through the chill system to ensure that it meets the postchill FPS. This test is independent of the prechill test. Compliance is measured by determining the CUSUM on consecutive 10-bird subgroup samples as they exit the chilling system. When the system is operating within compliance, the establishment applies the FPS to product samples at the prechill reinspection station. Testing time and time between tests are such that birds represented by the test are still within the chiller. If an out-of-compliance condition is found, the product leaving the chiller is segregated for rework and retested before it may proceed into commerce. A second 10 bird subgroup sample of the birds is taken after they leave the chiller to ensure that the product meets the postchill FPS. Since the product is closer to the end of processing, the controls on releasing reworked product are stricter than controls under prechill testing, again to ensure that no adulterated product enters into commerce.
