
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter B - Cooperative Control and Eradication of Livestock or Poultry Diseases
#### PART 50 - ANIMALS DESTROYED BECAUSE OF TUBERCULOSIS
##### Subpart A - General Indemnity
###### ยง 50.12 Claims for indemnity.

Claims for Federal indemnity for livestock destroyed because of tuberculosis shall be presented on indemnity claim forms furnished by APHIS on which the owner of the animals covered thereby shall certify that the animals are or are not, subject to any mortgage as defined in this Part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the APHIS indemnity claim form shall be signed by the owner and by each person holding a mortgage on the animals consenting to the payment of any indemnity allowed to the person specified thereon. Payment will be made only if the APHIS indemnity claim form has been approved by a proper State official and if payment of the claim has been recommended by the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge or an official designated by him. On claims for indemnity made under the provisions of ยง 50.3, the Veterinarian in Charge or official designated by him shall record on the APHIS indemnity claim form the amount of Federal and State indemnity payments that appear to be due to the owner of the animals. The owner of the animals shall be furnished a copy of the APHIS indemnity claim form. The Veterinarian in Charge or official designated by him shall then forward the APHIS indemnity claim form to the appropriate official for further action on the claim. No charges for holding the livestock on the farm pending slaughter or for trucking by the owner shall be so deducted or otherwise paid by the Department.
