
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### C

() Conduct subgroup retests on carcasses leaving the chill system. Apply the prechill criteria in Table 1 (A) or (B), depending upon which category caused the action, and apply prechill Finished Product Standards as listed in Table 2 to determine product compliance. In no case shall the time between retests exceed 30 minutes of production time. Apply prechill standard criteria at the postchill location after notifying the establishment's production supervisor. If any of these subgroup retests on product leaving the chill system result in a subgroup total exceeding tolerance, identify for rework subsequent product at the postchill location. All noncomplying product will be brought into compliance prior to release into commerce. Product from the chiller will continue accumulating for rework until a subsequent subgroup test results in a subgroup total equal to or less than tolerance.
