
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### ii

() Inspector Actions. The inspector shall monitor product and process actions to ensure that program requirements are met.

(v) When the prechill or postchill product has been identified as having been produced when the process was not in control, additional online subgroup testing by the establishment is required to determine its conformance to the standard. If any of the additional plant subgroup testing results in a subgroup total exceeding tolerance, offline product corrective actions must take place. The responsibilities of the establishment and the inspector change depending on the CUSUM.

All corrective actions such as identifying affected product, segregating product, and maintaining control through rework actions are the establishment's responsibility. Corrective actions by the inspector depends upon the establishment's ability to control rework of affected product. If the establishment fails in its responsibilities, the inspector will identify, segregate, and retain affected product to prevent adulterated product from reaching consumers.
