
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### b

() A reinspection station shall be located at the end of each line. This station shall comply with the facility requirements in ยง 381.36(d)(2). The inspector shall ensure that the establishment has performed the indicated trimming of carcasses passed subject to reinspection by visually monitoring, checking data, or gathering samples at the station or at other critical points on the line.

(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) The maximum inspection rate for NELS shall be 91 birds per minute per eviscerating line.

(5) The following requirements are also applicable to the NTI System:

(i) Inspection under the NTI System is conducted in two phases, a post-mortem inspection phase and a reinspection phase. The NTI-1 Inspection System requires that the establishment provide one inspection station for each line and adequate reinspection facilitiates so carcasses can be removed from each line for evaluation. The NTI-2 Inspection System requires that the establishment provide two inspection stations for each line and adequate reinspection facilities so carcasses can be removed from each line for evaluation.
