
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### a,Post-mortem inspection.

()Each inspection station must comply with the facility requirements in ยง 381.36(e)(1). Each inspector shall be flanked by and establishment employee assigned to be the inspector's helper. The one inspector on an NTI-1 Inspection System shall be presented every bird. Each inspector on an NTI-2 Inspection System line shall be presented every other bird on the line. An establishment employee shall present each bird to the inspector properly eviscerated with the back side toward the inspector and the viscera uniformly trailing or leading. Each inspector shall inspect the inside, viscera, and outside of all birds presented. The inspector shall determine which bird shall be salvaged, reprocessed, condemned, retained for disposition by a veterinarian, or allowed to proceed down the line as a passed bird subject to reinspection. Turkey carcasses with certain defects not requiring condemnation of the entire carcass shall be passed by the inspector, but shall be subject to reinspection to ensure the physical removal of the specified defects. The helper, under the supervision of the inspector, shall mark such carcasses for trim when the defects of birds passed subject to reinspection shall be performed by:
