
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart K - Post Mortem Inspection; Disposition of Carcasses and Parts
###### ยง 381.76 Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.
####### Carcass sorting and disposition.

(ii)(A) The establishment must conduct carcass with associated viscera sorting activities, dispose of carcasses and parts exhibiting condemnable conditions, and conduct appropriate trimming and reprocessing activities before carcasses are presented to the online carcass inspector.

(B) Any carcasses removed from the line for reprocessing activities or salvage must be returned to the line before the online carcass inspection station. The establishment must include in its written HACCP plan, or sanitation SOP, or other prerequisite program a process by which parts, other than parts identified as "major portions" as defined in ยง 381.170(b)(22), are available for inspection offline after reprocessing or salvage.

(C) The establishment must develop, implement, and maintain written procedures to ensure that poultry carcasses contaminated with septicemic and toxemic conditions do not enter the chiller. The establishment must incorporate these procedures into its HACCP plan, or sanitation SOP, or other prerequisite program. These procedures must cover, at a minimum, establishment sorting activities required under paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.

(D) The establishment must maintain records to document that the products resulting from its slaughter operation meet the definition of ready-to-cook poultry in ยง 381.1. These records are subject to review and evaluation by FSIS personnel.
