
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter B - Cooperative Control and Eradication of Livestock or Poultry Diseases
#### PART 50 - ANIMALS DESTROYED BECAUSE OF TUBERCULOSIS
##### Subpart B - Dairy Cattle and Facilities in the El Paso, Texas, Region
###### ยง 50.21 Schedule of payments.

(a) The Department will make payment, other than for reimbursement of relocation expenses of the equipment of the reverse osmosis plant, at 90-day intervals. The first payment will be made no earlier than 30 days after all owners eligible for payment have signed their agreements required under ยง 50.17(b). The Department will determine the amount to be paid to each owner in each payment by multiplying the total agreement amount for that owner by a fraction that is arrived at by dividing the initial census number of dairy cattle for the respective owner into the number of dairy cattle that have been removed from the owner's herd during that payment period. From this amount, 10 percent will be withheld until all animals in the herd have been disposed of and the requirements of this subpart have been met. The payments to other property owners will be determined by multiplying the total agreement amount for that other property times the same ratio as for the herd related to that other property, minus 10 percent. The Department will make payment for reimbursement of relocation expenses of the reverse osmosis plant within 30 days after the relocation of the plant is completed and the owner of the plant has submitted to APHIS all documentation of the costs of the relocation.

(b) The Department will not make final payments until the premises used for dairy operations have been without sexually intact cattle for at least 30 days and until APHIS has inspected the premises and has found them to be free of manure, except for non-solid areas such as lagoons, and free of all feedstuffs that are not in barns, containers or feeders.
