
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart N - Labeling and Containers
###### § 381.117 Name of product and other labeling.

(a) The label shall show the name of the product, which, in the case of a poultry product which purports to be or is represented as a product for which a definition and standard of identity or composition is prescribed in subpart P, shall be the name of the food specified in the standard, and in the case of any other poultry product shall be the common or usual name of the food, if any there be, and if there is none, a truthful descriptive designation.

(b) The name of the product required to be shown on labels for fresh or frozen raw whole carcasses of poultry shall be in either of the following forms: The name of the kind (such as chicken, turkey, or duck) preceded by the qualifying term "young" or "mature" or "old", whichever is appropriate; or the appropriate class name as described in § 381.170(a). The name of the kind may be used in addition to the class name, but the name of the kind alone without the qualifying age or class term is not acceptable as the name of the product, except that the name "chicken" may be used without such qualification with respect to a ready-to-cook pack of fresh or frozen cut-up young chickens, or a half of a young chicken, and the name "duckling" may be used without such qualification with respect to a ready-to-cook pack of fresh or frozen young ducks. The class name may be appropriately modified by changing the word form, such as using the term "roasting chicken", rather than "roaster." The appropriate names for cut-up parts are set forth in § 381.170(b). When naming parts cut from young poultry, the identity of both the kind of poultry and the name of the part shall be included in the product name. The product name for parts or portions cut from mature poultry shall include, along with the part or portion name, the class name or the qualifying term "mature." The name of the product for cooked or heat processed poultry products shall include the kind name of the poultry from which the product was prepared but need not include the class name or the qualifying term "mature."

(c) Poultry products containing light and dark chicken or turkey meat in quantities other than the natural proportions, as indicated in Table 1 in this paragraph, must have a qualifying statement in conjunction with the name of the product indicating, as shown in Table 1, the types of meat actually used, except that when the product contains less than 10 percent cooked deboned poultry meat or is processed in such a manner that the character of the light and dark meat is not distinguishable, the qualifying statement will not be required, unless the product bears a label referring to the light or dark meat content. In the latter case, the qualifying statement is required if the light and dark meat are not present in natural proportions. The qualifying statement must be in type at least one-half the size and of equal boldness as the name of the product; e.g., Boned Turkey (Dark Meat).

(d) Boneless poultry products shall be labeled in a manner that accurately describes their actual form and composition. The product name shall specify the form of the product (e.g., emulsified, finely chopped, etc.), and the kind name of the poultry, and if the product does not consist of natural proportions of skin and fat, as they occur in the whole carcass, shall also include terminology that describes the actual composition. If the product is cooked, it shall be so labeled. For the purpose of this paragraph, natural proportions of skin, as found on a whole chicken or turkey carcass, will be considered to be as follows:

(e) On the label of any "Mechanically Separated (Kind of Poultry) " described in § 381.173, the name of such product shall be followed immediately by the phrase: "with excess skin" unless such product is made from poultry product that does not include skin in excess of the natural proportion of skin present on the whole carcass, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Appropriate terminology on the label shall indicate if heat treatment has been used in the preparation of the product. The labeling information described in this paragraph shall be identified on the label before the product leaves the establishment at which it is manufactured.

(f) The labels of sausages encased in natural casings made from meat or poultry viscera shall identify the type of meat or poultry from which the casings were derived, if the casings are from a different type of meat or poultry than the encased meat or poultry. The identity of the casing, if required, may be placed on the principal display panel or in the ingredient statement. Establishments producing, manufacturing, or using natural sausage casings are to maintain records documenting the meat or poultry source in accordance with subpart Q of this part.

(g) The labels of sausages encased in regenerated collagen casings shall disclose this fact on the product label. The fact that the sausage is encased in collagen may be placed on the principal display panel or in the ingredient statement.

(h) The product name for a raw poultry product that contains added solution and does not meet a standard of identity in this part must contain a descriptive designation that includes:

(1) The percentage of added solution (total weight of the solution ingredients divided by the weight of the raw poultry without solution or any other added ingredients multiplied by 100). The percentage of added solution must appear as a number (such as, 15, 20, 30) and the percent symbol (%). The percentage of added solution may be declared by the words "containing" or "contains" (such as, "contains 15% added solution of water and salt," or "containing 15% added solution of water and teriyaki sauce").

(2) The common or usual name of all individual ingredients or multi-ingredient components in the solution listed in descending order of predominance by weight.

(3) When the descriptive designation includes all ingredients in the solution, a separate ingredients statement is not required on the label. When the descriptive designation includes multi-ingredient components and the ingredients of the component are not declared in the product name, all ingredients in the product must be declared in a separate ingredients statement on the label as required in § 381.118.

(4) The product name and the descriptive designation must be printed in a single easy-to-read type style and color and must appear on a single-color contrasting background. The print may appear in upper and lower case letters, with the lower case letters not smaller than one-third () the size of the largest letter.

(5) The word "enhanced" cannot be used in the product name.
