
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart N - Labeling and Containers
###### ยง 381.118 Ingredients statement.
####### Provided,

(2)(i) Product ingredients which are present in individual amounts of 2 percent or less by weight may be listed in the ingredients statement in other than descending order of predominance:That such ingredients are listed by their common or usual names at the end of the ingredients statement and preceded by a quantifying statement, such as "Contains __________ percent or less of __________ ," or "Less than __________ percent of __________ ." The percentage of the ingredient(s) shall be filled in with a threshold level of 2 percent, 1.5 percent, 1.0 percent, or 0.5 percent, as appropriate. No ingredient to which the quantifying statement applies may be present in an amount greater than the stated threshold. Such a quantifying statement may also be utilized when an ingredients statement contains a listing of ingredients by individual components. Each component listing may utilize the required quantifying statement at the end of each component ingredients listing.

(ii) Such ingredients may be adjusted in the product formulation without a change being made in the ingredients statement on the labeling, provided that the adjusted amount complies with subpart P of this part and ยง 424.21(c) of subchapter E, and does not exceed the amount shown in the quantifying statement. Any such adjustments to the formulation shall be provided to the inspector-in-charge.

(b) For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "chicken meat," unless modified by an appropriate adjective, is construed to mean deboned white and dark meat; whereas the term "chicken" may include other edible parts such as skin and fat not in excess of their natural proportions, in addition to the chicken meat. If the term "chicken meat" is listed and the product also contains skin, giblets, or fat, it is necessary to list each such ingredient. Similar principles shall be followed in listing ingredients of poultry products processed from other kinds of poultry.

(c) The terms spice, natural flavor, natural flavoring, flavor or flavoring may be used in the following manner:

(1) The term "spice" means any aromatic vegetable substance in the whole, broken, or ground form, with the exceptions of onions, garlic and celery, whose primary function in food is seasoning rather than nutritional and from which no portion of any volatile oil or other flavoring principle has been removed. Spices include the spices listed in 21 CFR 182.10, and 184.

(2) The term "natural flavor," "natural flavoring," "flavor" or "flavoring" means the essential oil, oleoresin, essence or extractive, protein hydrolysate, distillate, or any product of roasting, heating or enzymolysis, which contains the flavoring constituents derived from a spice, fruit or fruit juice, vegetable or vegetable juice, edible yeast, herb, bark, bud, root, leaf or any other edible portions of a plant, meat, seafood, poultry, eggs, dairy products, or fermentation products thereof, whose primary function in food is flavoring rather than nutritional. Natural flavors include the natural essence or extractives obtained from plants listed in 21 CFR 182.10, 182.20, 182.40, 182.50 and 184, and the substances listed in 21 CFR 172.510. The term natural flavor, natural flavoring, flavor or flavoring may also be used to designate spices, powdered onion, powdered garlic, and powdered celery.

(i) Natural flavor, natural flavoring, flavor or flavoring as described in paragraph (c)(1) and (2) of this section, which are also colors shall be designated as "natural flavor and coloring," "natural flavoring and coloring," "flavor and coloring" or "flavoring and coloring" unless designated by their common or usual name.

(ii) Any ingredient not designated in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section whose function is flavoring, either in whole or in part, must be designated by its common or usual name. Those ingredients which are of livestock or poultry origin must be designated by names that include the species and livestock and poultry tissues from which the ingredients are derived.
