
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart N - Labeling and Containers
###### ยง 381.125 Special handling label requirements.

(a) Packaged products which require special handling to maintain their wholesome condition shall have prominently displayed on the principal display panel of the label the statement: "Keep Refrigerated," "Keep Frozen," "Keep Refrigerated or Frozen," "Perishable-Keep Under Refrigeration," or such similar statement as the Administrator may approve in specific cases. The immediate containers for products that are frozen during distribution and intended to be thawed prior to or during display for sale shall bear the statement "Shipped/Stored and Handled Frozen for Your Protection, Keep Refrigerated or Freeze." For all canned perishable products, the statement shall be shown in upper case letters one-fourth inch in height for containers having a net weight of 3 pounds or less, and for containers having a net weight over 3 pounds, the statement shall be shown in letters one-half inch in height.

(b) Safe handling instructions shall be provided for all poultry products not processed in accordance with the provisions of ยง 381.150(a) or that have not undergone other processing that would render them ready-to-eat, except as exempted under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(1) (i) Safe handling instructions shall accompany the poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b), destined for household consumers, hotels, restaurants, or similar institutions and shall appear on the label. The information shall be in lettering no smaller than one-sixteenth of an inch in size and shall be prominently placed with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words, statements, designs or devices in the labeling) as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use.

(ii) The safe handling information shall be presented on the label under the heading "Safe Handling Instructions" which shall be set in type size larger than the print size of the rationale statement and handling statements as discussed in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section. The safe handling information shall be set off by a border and shall be one color type printed on a single color contrasting background whenever practical.

(2) (i) The labels of the poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b) and prepared from inspected and passed poultry, shall include the following rationale statement as part of the safe handling instructions, "This product was prepared from inspected and passed meat and/or poultry. Some food products may contain bacteria that could cause illness if the product is mishandled or cooked improperly. For your protection, follow these safe handling instructions." This statement shall be placed immediately after the heading and before the safe handling statements.

(ii) The labels of the poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b) and prepared pursuant to ยง 381.10(a) (2), (5), (6), and (7), shall include the following rationale statement as part of the safe handling instructions, "Some food products may contain bacteria that could cause illness if the product is mishandled or cooked improperly. For your protection, follow these safe handling instructions." This statement shall be placed immediately after the heading and before the safe handling statements.

(3) Poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b), shall bear the labeling statements.

(i) Keep refrigerated or frozen. Thaw in refrigerator or microwave. (Any portion of this statement that is in conflict with the product's specific handling instructions may be omitted, e.g., instructions to cook without thawing.) (A graphic illustration of a refrigerator shall be displayed next to the statement.);

(ii) Keep raw meat and poultry separate from other foods. Wash working surfaces (including cutting boards), utensils, and hands after touching raw meat or poultry. (A graphic illustration of soapy hands under a faucet shall be displayed next to the statement.);

(iii) Cook thoroughly. (A graphic illustration of a skillet shall be displayed next to the statement.); and

(iv) Keep hot foods hot. Refrigerate leftovers immediately or discard. (A graphic illustration of a thermometer shall be displayed next to the statement.)

(4) Poultry products intended for further processing at another official establishment are exempt from the requirements prescribed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.
