
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart N - Labeling and Containers
###### § 381.129 False or misleading labeling or containers.

(a) No poultry product subject to the Act shall have any false or misleading labeling or any container that is so made, formed, or filled as to be misleading. However, established trade names and other labeling and containers which are not false or misleading and which are approved by the Administrator in the regulations or in specific cases are permitted.

(b) No statement, word, picture, design, or device which is false or misleading in any particular or conveys any false impression or gives any false indication of origin, identity, or quality, shall appear on any label. For example:

(1) Official grade designations such as the letter grades A, B, and C may be used in labeling individual carcasses of poultry or containers of poultry products only if such articles have been graded by a licensed grader of the Federal or Federal-State poultry grading service and found to qualify for the indicated grade.

(2) Terms having geographical significance with reference to a particular locality may be used only when the product was produced in that locality.

(3) "Fresh frozen", "quick frozen", "frozen fresh", and terms of similar import apply only to ready-to-cook poultry processed in accordance with § 381.66(f)(1). Ready-to-cook poultry handled in any other manner and dressed poultry may be labeled "frozen" only if it is frozen in accordance with § 381.66(f)(2) under Department supervision and is in fact in a frozen state. "Individually quick frozen (Kind)" and terms of similar import are applicable only to poultry products that are frozen as stated on the label and whose component parts can be easily separated at time of packing.

(4) Poultry products labeled with a term quoted in any paragraph of § 381.170(b) shall comply with the specifications in the applicable paragraph. However, parts of poultry may be cut in any manner the processor desires as long as the labeling appropriately reflects the contents of the container of such poultry.

(5) The terms "All," "Pure," "100%," and terms of similar connotation shall not be used on labels for products to identify ingredient content, unless the product is prepared solely from a single ingredient.

(6)(i) A raw poultry product whose internal temperature has ever been below 26 &#xB0;F may not bear a label declaration of "fresh." A raw poultry product bearing a label declaration of "fresh" but whose internal temperature has ever been below 26 &#xB0;F is mislabeled. The temperature of individual packages of raw poultry product within an official establishment may deviate below the 26 &#xB0;F standard by 1 degree (i.e., have a temperature of 25 &#xB0;F) and still be labeled "fresh." The temperature of individual packages of raw poultry product outside an official establishment may deviate below the 26 &#xB0;F standard by 2 degrees (i.e., have a temperature of 24 &#xB0;F) and still be labeled "fresh." The average temperature of poultry product lots of each specific product type must be 26 &#xB0;F. Product described in this paragraph is not subject to the freezing procedures required in § 381.66(f)(2) of this subchapter.

(ii) Raw poultry product whose internal temperature has ever been at or below 0&#xB0;F must be labeled with the descriptive term "frozen," except when such labeling duplicates or conflicts with the labeling requirements in § 381.125 of this subchapter. The word "previously" may be placed next to the term "frozen" on an optional basis. The descriptive term must be prominently displayed on the principal display panel of the label. If additional labeling containing the descriptive term is affixed to the label, it must be prominently affixed to the label. The additional labeling must be so conspicuous (as compared with other words, statements, designs, or devices in the labeling) that it is likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use. Product described in this paragraph is subject to the freezing procedures required in § 381.66(f)(2) of this subchapter.

(iii) Raw poultry product whose internal temperature has ever been below 26 &#xB0;F, but is above 0 &#xB0;F, is not required to bear any specific descriptive term. Raw poultry product whose internal temperature has ever been below 26 &#xB0;F, but is above 0 &#xB0;F, may bear labeling with an optional, descriptive term, provided the optional, descriptive term does not cause the raw poultry product to become misbranded. If used, an optional, descriptive term must be prominently displayed on the principal display panel of the label. If additional labeling containing the optional, descriptive term is affixed to the label, it must be prominently affixed on the label. The additional labeling must be so conspicuous (as compared with other words, statements, designs, or devices in the labeling) that it is likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use.
