
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart N - Labeling and Containers
###### ยง 381.129 False or misleading labeling or containers.
####### Handling and relabeling of products.

(iv)(A) Except as provided under paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(C) of this section, when any inspected and passed product has become misbranded under this subpart after it has been transported from an official establishment, such product may be transported in commerce to an official establishment after oral permission is obtained from the Area Supervisor of the area in which that official establishment is located. The transportation of the product may be to the official establishment from which it had been transported or to another official establishment designated by the person desiring to handle the product. The transportation shall be authorized only for the purpose of the relabeling of the product. The Area Supervisor shall record the authorization and other information necessary to identify the product and shall provide a copy of the record to the inspector at the establishment receiving the product. The shipper shall be furnished a copy of the authorization record upon request.

(B) Upon the arrival of the shipment at the official establishment, a careful inspection shall be made of the product by the inspector, and if it is found that the product is not adulterated, it may be received into the establishment; but if the product is found to be adulterated, it shall at once be condemned and disposed of in accordance with ยง 381.95 of this subchapter. Wholesome product will be relabeled in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) (i) or (ii) of this section, as appropriate.
