
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart O - Entry of Articles Into Official Establishments; Processing Inspection and Other Reinspections; Processing Requirements
###### ยง 381.145 Poultry products and other articles entering or at official establishments; examination and other requirements.
####### Termination of Quality Control Systems.

(g)(1) The approval of a total plant quality control system may be terminated at any time by the owner or operator of the official establishment upon written notice to the Administrator.

(2) The approval of a total plant quality control system or a quality control system for irradiation facilities may be terminated upon the establishment's receipt of a written notice from the Administrator under the following conditions:

(i) If adulterated or misbranded poultry product is found by the Adminstrator to have been prepared for or distributed in commerce by the subject establishment. In such case, opportunity will be provided to the establishment owner or operator to present views to the Administrator within 30 days of the date of terminating the approval. In those instances where there is a conflict of facts, a hearing, under applicable Rules of Practice, will be afforded to the establishment owner or operator, if requested, to resolve the conflict, The Administrator's termination of approval shall remain in effect pending the final determination of the proceeding.

(ii) If the establishment fails to comply with the quality control system to which it has agreed after being notified by letter from the Administrator or his designee. Prior to such termination, opportunity will be provided to the establishment owner or operator to present views to the Administrator within 30 days of the date of the letter. In those instances where there is a conflict of facts, a hearing, under applicable Rules of Practice, will be afforded to the establishment owner or operator, if requested, to resolve the conflict. The Administrator's termination of quality control approval shall remain in effect pending the final determination of the proceeding.

(3) If approval of the total establishment quality control system has been terminated in accordance with the provisions of this section, an application and request for approval of the same or modified total establishment quality control system will not be evaluated by the Administrator for at least 6 months from the termination date.

(4) If approval of a quality control system for irradiation facilities, as specified in section 381.149 of this subpart, has been terminated in accordance with the provisions of this section, a request for approval of the same or a modified quality control system will be evaluated by the Administrator upon receipt.
