
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart O - Entry of Articles Into Official Establishments; Processing Inspection and Other Reinspections; Processing Requirements
###### ยง 381.150 Requirements for the production of fully cooked poultry products and partially cooked poultry breakfast strips.
####### Stabilization.,Clostridium botulinum,,Clostridium perfringens

(2)There can be no multiplication of toxigenic microorganisms such asand no more than a 1 logmultiplication ofwithin the product.

(b) Partially cooked poultry breakfast strips must be produced using processes ensuring that the products meet the performance standard listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Labeling for these products must comply with ยง 381.125. In addition, the statement "Partially Cooked: For Safety, Cook Until Well Done" must appear on the principal display panel in letters no smaller thanthe size of the largest letter in the product name. Detailed cooking instructions shall be provided on the immediate container of the products.

(c) For each product produced using a process other than one conducted in accordance with the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) system requirements in part 417 of this chapter, an establishment must develop and have on file, available to FSIS, a process schedule, as defined in ยง 381.1(b). Each process schedule must be approved in writing by a process authority for safety and efficacy in meeting the performance standards established for the product in question. A process authority must have access to an establishment in order to evaluate and approve the safety and efficacy of each process schedule.

(d) Under the auspices of a processing authority, an establishment must validate new or altered process schedules by scientifically supportable means, such as information gleaned from the literature or by challenge studies conducted outside the plant.
