
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart Y - Nutrition Labeling
###### § 381.409 Nutrition label content.

(a) All nutrient and food component quantities shall be declared in relation to a serving as defined in this section.

(b)(1) The term "serving" or "serving size" means an amount of food customarily consumed per eating occasion by persons 4 years of age or older, which is expressed in a common household measure that is appropriate to the product. When the product is specially formulated or processed for use by infants or by toddlers, a serving or serving size means an amount of food customarily consumed per eating occasion by infants up to 12 months of age or by children 1 through 3 years of age, respectively.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(8), (b)(12), and (b)(14) of this section and for products that are intended for weight control and are available only through a weight-control or weight-maintenance program, the serving size declared on a product label shall be determined from the "Reference Amounts Customarily Consumed Per Eating Occasion-General Food Supply" (Reference Amount(s)) that appear in § 381.412(b) using the procedures described in this paragraph (b). For products that are both intended for weight control and available only through a weight-control program, a manufacturer may determine the serving size that is consistent with the meal plan of the program. Such products must bear a statement, "for sale only through the ______ program" (fill in the blank with the name of the appropriate weight-control program, e.g., Smith's Weight Control), on the principal display panel. However, the Reference Amounts in § 381.412(b) shall be used for purposes of evaluating whether weight-control products that are available only through a weight-control program qualify for nutrition claims.

(3) The declaration of nutrient and food component content shall be on the basis of the product "as packaged" for all products, except that single-ingredient, raw products that are not ground or chopped poultry products as described in § 381.401 may be declared on the basis of the product "as consumed." For single-ingredient, raw products that are not ground or chopped poultry products described in § 381.401, if data are based on the product "as consumed," the data must be presented in accordance with § 381.445(d). In addition to the required declaration on the basis of "as packaged" for products other than single-ingredient, raw products that are not ground or chopped poultry products as described in § 381.401, the declaration may also be made on the basis of "as consumed," provided that preparation and cooking instructions are clearly stated.

(4) For products in discrete units (e.g., chicken wings, and individually packaged products within a multi-serving package), and for products which consist of two or more foods packaged and presented to be consumed together where the ingredient represented as the main ingredient is in discrete units (e.g., chicken wings and barbecue sauce), the serving size shall be declared as follows:

(i) If a unit weighs 50 percent or less of the Reference Amount, the serving size shall be the number of whole units that most closely approximates the Reference Amount for the product category.

(ii) If a unit weighs more than 50 percent but less than 67 percent of the Reference Amount, the manufacturer may declare one unit or two units as the serving size.

(iii) If a unit weighs 67 percent or more but less than 200 percent of the Reference Amount, the serving size shall be one unit.

(iv) If a unit weighs 200 percent or more of the Reference Amount, the manufacturer may declare one unit as the serving size if the whole unit can reasonably be consumed at a single eating occasion.

(v) For products that have Reference Amounts of 100 grams (or milliliter) or larger and are individual units within a multi-serving package, if a unit contains more than 150 percent but less than 200 percent of the Reference Amount, the manufacturer may decide whether to declare the individual unit as 1 or 2 servings.

(vi) For products which consist of two or more foods packaged and presented to be consumed together where the ingredient represented as the main ingredient is in discrete units (e.g., chicken wings and barbecue sauce), the serving size may be the number of discrete units represented as the main ingredient plus proportioned minor ingredients used to make the Reference Amount for the combined product as determined in § 381.412(c).

(vii) For packages containing several individual single-serving containers, each of which is labeled with all required information including nutrition labeling as specified in this section (i.e., are labeled appropriately for individual sale as single-serving containers), the serving size shall be 1 unit.

(5) For products in large discrete units that are usually divided for consumption (e.g., pizza, pan of poultry lasagna), for unprepared products where the entire contents of the package is used to prepare large discrete units that are usually divided for consumption (e.g., pizza kit), and for products which consist of two or more foods packaged and presented to be consumed together where the ingredient represented as the main ingredient is a large discrete unit usually divided for consumption, the serving size shall be the fractional slice of the ready-to-eat product (e.g.,quiche,pizza) that most closely approximates the Reference Amount for the product category. The serving size may be the fraction of the package used to make the Reference Amount for the unprepared product determined in § 381.412(d) or the fraction of the large discrete unit represented as the main ingredient plus proportioned minor ingredients used to make the Reference Amount of the combined product determined in § 381.412(c). In expressing the fractional slice, manufacturers shall use,,,,, or smaller fractions that can be generated by further division by 2 or 3.

(6) For nondiscrete bulk products (e.g., whole turkey, turkey breast, ground poultry), and for products which consist of two or more foods packaged and presented to be consumed together where the ingredient represented as the main ingredient is a bulk product (e.g., turkey breast and gravy), the serving size shall be the amount in household measure that most closely approximates the Reference Amount for the product category and may be the amount of the bulk product represented as the main ingredient plus proportioned minor ingredients used to make the Reference Amount for the combined product determined in § 381.412(c).

(7) For labeling purposes, the term "common household measure" or "common household unit" means cup, tablespoon, teaspoon, piece, slice, fraction (e.g.,pizza), ounce (oz), or other common household equipment used to package food products (e.g., jar or tray). In expressing serving size in household measures, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(iv), (v), and (vi) of this section, the following rules shall be used:

(i) Cups, tablespoons, or teaspoons shall be used wherever possible and appropriate. Cups shall be expressed in- or-cup increments, tablespoons in whole number of tablespoons for quantities less thancup but greater than or equal to 2 tablespoons (tbsp), 1, 1, 1, or 1tbsp for quantities less than 2 tbsp but greater than or equal to 1 tbsp, and teaspoons in whole number of teaspoons for quantities less than 1 tbsp but greater than or equal to 1 teaspoon (tsp), and in-tsp increments for quantities less than 1 tsp.

(ii) If cups, tablespoons or teaspoons are not applicable, units such as piece, slice, tray, jar, and fraction shall be used.

(iii) If cups, tablespoons and teaspoons, or units such as piece, slice, tray, jar, or fraction are not applicable, ounces may be used. Ounce measurements shall be expressed in 0.5-ounce increments most closely approximating the Reference Amount with rounding indicated by the use of the term "about" (e.g., about 2.5 ounces).

(iv) A description of the individual container or package shall be used for single-serving containers and for individually packaged products within multi-serving containers (e.g., can, box, package, meal, or dinner). A description of the individual unit shall be used for other products in discrete units (e.g., wing, slice, link, or patty).

(v) For unprepared products where the entire contents of the package is used to prepare large discrete units that are usually divided for consumption (e.g., pizza kit), the fraction or portion of the package may be used.

(vi) For products that consist of two or more distinct ingredients or components packaged and presented to be consumed together (e.g., chicken wings with a glaze packet), the nutrition information may be declared for each component or as a composite. The serving size may be provided in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5), and (b)(6) of this section.

(vii) For nutrition labeling purposes, a teaspoon means 5 milliliters (mL), a tablespoon means 15 mL, a cup means 240 mL, and 1 oz in weight means 28 grams (g).

(viii) When a serving size, determined from the Reference Amount in § 381.412(b) and the procedures described in this section, falls exactly half way between two serving sizes (e.g., 2.5 tbsp), manufacturers shall round the serving size up to the next incremental size.

(8) A product that is packaged and sold individually and that contains less than 200 percent of the applicable Reference Amount shall be considered to be a single-serving container, and the entire content of the product shall be labeled as one serving, except for products that have Reference Amounts of 100 g (or mL) or larger, manufacturers may decide whether a package that contains more than 150 percent but less than 200 percent of the Reference Amount is 1 or 2 servings. Packages sold individually that contain 200 percent or more of the applicable Reference Amount may be labeled as a single-serving if the entire content of the package can reasonably be consumed at a single-eating occasion.

(9) A label statement regarding a serving shall be the serving size expressed in common household measures as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(8) of this section and shall be followed by the equivalent metric quantity in parenthesis (fluids in milliliters and all other foods in grams), except for single-serving containers.

(i) For a single-serving container, the parenthetical metric quantity, which will be presented as part of the net weight statement on the principal display panel, is not required except where nutrition information is required on a drained weight basis according to paragraph (b)(11) of this section. However, if a manufacturer voluntarily provides the metric quantity on products that can be sold as single servings, then the numerical value provided as part of the serving size declaration must be identical to the metric quantity declaration provided as part of the net quantity of contents statement.

(ii) The gram or milliliter quantity equivalent to the household measure should be rounded to the nearest whole number except for quantities that are less than 5 g (mL). The gram (mL) quantity between 2 and 5 g (mL) should be rounded to the nearest 0.5 g (mL) and the g (mL) quantity less than 2 g (mL) should be expressed in 0.1-g (mL) increments.

(iii) In addition, serving size may be declared in ounce, in parenthesis, following the metric measure separated by a slash where other common household measures are used as the primary unit for serving size, e.g., 1 slice (28 g/1 oz) for sliced chicken roll. The ounce quantity equivalent to the metric quantity should be expressed in 0.1-oz increments.

(iv) If a manufacturer elects to use abbreviations for units, the following abbreviations shall be used: tbsp for tablespoon, tsp for teaspoon, g for gram, mL for milliliter, and oz for ounce.

(10) Determination of the number of servings per container shall be based on the serving size of the product determined by following the procedures described in this section.

(i) The number of servings shall be rounded to the nearest whole number except for the number of servings between 2 and 5 servings and random weight products. The number of servings between 2 and 5 servings shall be rounded to the nearest 0.5 serving. Rounding should be indicated by the use of the term "about" (e.g., about 2 servings; about 3.5 servings).

(ii) When the serving size is required to be expressed on a drained solids basis and the number of servings varies because of a natural variation in unit size, the manufacturer may state the typical number of servings per container (e.g., usually 5 servings).

(iii) For random weight products, a manufacturer may declare "varied" for the number of servings per container provided the nutrition information is based on the Reference Amount expressed in ounces. The manufacturer may provide the typical number of servings in parenthesis following the "varied" statement (e.g., varied (approximately 8 servings per pound)).

(iv) For packages containing several individual single-serving containers, each of which is labeled with all required information including nutrition labeling as specified in this section (i.e., are labeled appropriately for individual sale as single-serving containers), the number of servings shall be the number of individual packages within the total package.

(v) For packages containing several individually packaged multi-serving units, the number of servings shall be determined by multiplying the number of individual multi-serving units in the total package by the number of servings in each individual unit. The declaration of the number of servings per container need not be included in nutrition labeling of single-ingredient, raw poultry products that are not ground or chopped poultry products described in § 381.401, including those that have been previously frozen.

(11) The declaration of nutrient and food component content shall be on the basis of product as packaged or purchased with the exception of single-ingredient, raw products that are not ground or chopped poultry products described in § 381.401 and products that are packed or canned in water, brine, or oil but whose liquid packing medium is not customarily consumed. Declaration of the nutrient and food component content of products that are packed in liquid which is not customarily consumed shall be based on the drained solids.

(12) The serving size for meal-type products and main-dish products as defined in § 381.413(l) and § 381.413 (m) in single-serve containers will be the entire edible content of the package. Serving size for meal-type products and main-dish products in multi-serve containers will be based on the reference amount applicable to the product in § 381.412(b) if the product is listed in § 381.412(b). Serving size for meal-type products and main-dish products in multi-serve containers that are not listed in § 381.412(b) will be based on the reference amount according to § 381.412(c), (d), and (e).

(13) Another column of figures may be used to declare the nutrient and food component information in the same format as required by § 381.409(e),

(i) Per 100 grams, 100 milliliters, or 1 ounce of the product as packaged or purchased.

(ii) Per one unit if the serving size of a product in discrete units in a multi-serving container is more than one unit.

(14) If a product consists of assortments of poultry products (e.g., variety packs) in the same package, nutrient content shall be expressed on the entire package contents or on each individual product.
