
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter A - Agency Organization and Terminology; Mandatory Meat and Poultry Products Inspection and Voluntary Inspection and Certification
#### PART 381 - POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart Y - Nutrition Labeling
###### ยง 381.409 Nutrition label content.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) The sample for nutrient analysis shall consist of a composite of a minimum of six consumer units, each from a production lot. Alternatively, the sample for nutrient analysis shall consist of a composite of a minimum of six consumer units, each randomly chosen to be representative of a production lot. In each case, the units may be individually analyzed and the results of the analyses averaged, or the units would be composited and the composite analyzed. In both cases, the results, whether an average or a single result from a composite, will be considered by the Agency to be the nutrient content of a composite. All analyses shall be performed by appropriate methods and procedures used by the Department for each nutrient in accordance with the "Chemistry Laboratory Guidebook," or, if no USDA method is available and appropriate for the nutrient, by appropriate methods for the nutrient in accordance with the 1990 edition of the "Official Methods of Analysis" of the AOAC International, formerly Association of Official Analytical Chemists, 15th ed., which is incorporated by reference, unless a particular method of analysis is specified in ยง 381.409(c), or, if no USDA, AOAC, or specified method is available and appropriate, by other reliable and appropriate analytical procedures as so determined by the Agency. The "Official Methods of Analysis" is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be purchased from the AOAC International, 2200 Wilson Blvd., Suite 400, Arlington, VA 22201. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(3) Two classes of nutrients are defined for purposes of compliance:

(i) Class I. Added nutrients in fortified or fabricated foods; and

(ii) Class II. Naturally occurring (indigenous) nutrients. If any ingredient which contains a naturally occurring (indigenous) nutrient is added to a food, the total amount of such nutrient in the final food product is subject to Class II requirements unless the same nutrient is also added, which would make the total amount of such nutrient subject to Class I requirements.

(4) A product with a label declaration of a vitamin, mineral, protein, total carbohydrate, dietary fiber, other carbohydrate, polyunsaturated or monounsaturated fat, or potassium shall be deemed to be misbranded under section 4(h) of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 453(h)(4)) unless it meets the following requirements:

(i) Class I vitamin, mineral, protein, dietary fiber, or potassium. The nutrient content of the composite is at least equal to the value for that nutrient declared on the label.
