
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 412 - LABEL APPROVAL
##### ยง 412.1 Label approval.

(a) No final label may be used on any product unless the label has been submitted for approval to the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff, accompanied by FSIS Form 7234-1, Application for Approval of Labels, Marking, and Devices, and approved by such staff, except for generically approved labels authorized for use in ยง 412.2. The management of the official establishment or establishment certified under a foreign inspection system, in accordance with parts 327 and 381, subpart T, must maintain a copy of all labels used, in accordance with parts 320 and 381, subpart Q, of this chapter. Such records must be made available to any duly authorized representative of the Secretary upon request.

(b) All labels required to be submitted for approval as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section will be submitted to the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff. A parent company for a corporation may submit only one label application for a product produced in other establishments that are owned by the corporation.

(c) The Food Safety and Inspection Service requires the submission of labeling applications for the following:

(1) Sketch labels as defined in paragraph (d) of this section for products which are produced under a religious exemption;

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Special statements and claims as defined in paragraph (e) of this section and presented in the context of a final label.

(4) Requests for the temporary use of final labels as prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section.

(d) A "sketch" label is the concept of a label. It may be a printer's proof or equivalent that is sufficiently legible to clearly show all labeling features, size, and location. The Food Safety and Inspection Service will accept sketches that are hand drawn or computer generated, or other reasonable facsimiles that clearly reflect and project the final version of the label.

(e) "Special statements and claims" are statements, claims, logos, trademarks, and other symbols on labels as defined in this paragraph (e).

(1) The following are considered special statements and claims:

(i) Those not defined in the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations or the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book;

(ii) "Natural" claims, regardless of whether they are defined in the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book; and
