
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 417 - HAZARD ANALYSIS AND CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) SYSTEMS
##### ยง 417.2 Hazard Analysis and HACCP Plan.
###### The HACCP plan.

(b)(1) Every establishment shall develop and implement a written HACCP plan covering each product produced by that establishment whenever a hazard analysis reveals one or more food safety hazards that are reasonably likely to occur, based on the hazard analysis conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, including products in the following processing categories:

(i) Slaughter-all species.

(ii) Raw product-ground.

(iii) Raw product-not ground.

(iv) Thermally processed-commercially sterile.

(v) Not heat treated-shelf stable.

(vi) Heat treated-shelf stable.

(vii) Fully cooked-not shelf stable.

(viii) Heat treated but not fully cooked-not shelf stable.

(ix) Product with secondary inhibitors-not shelf stable.

(2) A single HACCP plan may encompass multiple products within a single processing category identified in this paragraph, if the food safety hazards, critical control points, critical limits, and procedures required to be identified and performed in paragraph (c) of this section are essentially the same, provided that any required features of the plan that are unique to a specific product are clearly delineated in the plan and are observed in practice.

(3) HACCP plans for thermally processed/commercially sterile products do not have to address the food safety hazards associated with microbiological contamination if the product is produced in accordance with the requirements of part 431 of this chapter.
