
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 417 - HAZARD ANALYSIS AND CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) SYSTEMS
##### ยง 417.4 Validation, Verification, Reassessment.
###### Reassessment of the HACCP plan.

(3)(i)Every establishment shall reassess the adequacy of the HACCP plan at least annually and whenever any changes occur that could affect the hazard analysis or alter the HACCP plan. Such changes may include, but are not limited to, changes in: raw materials or source of raw materials; product formulation; slaughter or processing methods or systems; production volume; personnel; packaging; finished product distribution systems; or, the intended use or consumers of the finished product. The reassessment shall be performed by an individual trained in accordance with ยง 417.7 of this part. The HACCP plan shall be modified immediately whenever a reassessment reveals that the plan no longer meets the requirements of ยง 417.2(c) of this part.

(ii) Each establishment must make a record of each reassessment required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section and must document the reasons for any changes to the HACCP plan based on the reassessment, or the reasons for not changing the HACCP plan based on the reassessment. For annual reassessments, if the establishment determines that no changes are needed to its HACCP plan, it is not required to document the basis for this determination.
