
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 424 - PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Food Ingredients and Sources of Radiation
###### ยง 424.22 Certain other permitted uses.
####### Use of nitrite and sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate (isoascorbate) in bacon,Pumped bacon.

(b)-(1)With respect to bacon injected with curing ingredients and massaged bacon, sodium nitrite shall be used at 120 parts per million (ppm) ingoing or an equivalent amount of potassium nitrite shall be used (148 ppm ingoing); and 550 ppm of sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate (isoascorbate) shall be used. Sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate have a molecular weight of approximately 198. Hydrated forms of these substances shall be adjusted to attain the equivalent of 550 ppm of sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate.

(i) The Department shall collect samples of pumped bacon from producing plants and analyze them for the level of nitrosamines by the Thermal Energy Analyzer (TEA). In the event that a TEA analysis indicates that a confirmable level of nitrosamines might be present, additional samples shall be collected and analyzed by gas chromatography. Presumptive positive results must be confirmed by mass spectrometry before being considered positive. If during the interval required for the Department to analyze the confirmatory samples by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry, changes are made in processing procedures which are expected to result in no confirmable levels of nitrosamines in pumped bacon produced by these new procedures, an establishment may submit samples to USDA for analysis upon prior notification and arrangements with USDA. If, however, an establishment furnishes USDA with laboratory results from testing five consecutive lots of pumped bacon produced under the new procedures and the testing is performed by the USDA methodology and procedures, those results will be utilized in making the determination concerning the product produced under the new procedures. Should the results of these tests reveal that confirmable levels of nitrosamines are not indicated in any of the five consecutive lots, the confirmation analysis by USDA shall be terminated and the establishment shall revert to normal monitoring status. In the event the test results continue to indicate nitrosamines, however, USDA shall proceed in its confirmation analysis on the original samples taken for confirmation. If any one of the original samples collected by USDA for confirmation is found to contain confirmable levels of nitrosamines, all pumped bacon in the producing establishment and all future production will be retained. The Department shall sample and analyze such retained pumped bacon for nitrosamines on a lot by lot basis. A production lot shall be that pumped bacon produced by the establishment in any single shift. Samples from any lot of pumped bacon under retention found to contain nitrosamines at a confirmable level shall cause the lot of pumped bacon to be disposed of in a manner to ensure it will not form nitrosamines when cooked. Such disposal may include incorporation of the uncooked pumped bacon as an ingredient of another meat provided it is processed for eating without further preparation in a manner to preclude the formation of nitrosamines. Bacon subsequently produced shall not be retained because of nitrosamines if the operator of the establishment makes adjustments in the processing of the product and laboratory results obtained by TEA analysis of samples from five consecutive normal sized lots of pumped bacon indicates that the product being produced contains no confirmable levels of nitrosamines. These tests from five consecutive normal sized lots of pumped bacon shall be conducted by the Department. However, if the establishment furnishes the Department with the results of tests conducted under the methodology and procedures used by the Department, such test results will be utilized in making the determination concerning the nitrosamine content of the product. All tests of pumped bacon for nitrosamines under this paragraph (b)(1)(i) shall be made on pumped bacon cooked at 340 degrees F. for 3 minutes on each side. In order to determine that no confirmable levels of nitrosamines are present in a sample tested, the testing must be performed by methodology and procedures that would detect the presence of any nitrosamines at 10 ppb.

(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, sodium nitrite may be used at:

(A) 100 ppm ingoing (potassium nitrite at 123 ppm ingoing); and 550 ppm sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate (isoascorbate) shall be used; or
