
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 424 - PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Food Ingredients and Sources of Radiation
###### ยง 424.22 Certain other permitted uses.
####### e.g.,

(ii) Calibration criteria for verifying the accuracy and consistency of any means of measurement (time clocks and weight scales).

(iii) Calibration and accountability criteria for verifying the traceability and accuracy of dosimeters for the intended purpose, and the verification of calibration at least every 12 months. To confirm traceability, establishments must relate, through documentation, the end point measurement of a dosimeter to recognized standards.

(iv) Procedures for ensuring that the product unit is dose mapped to identify the regions of minimum and maximum absorbed dose and such regions are consistent from one product unit to another of like product.

(v) Procedures for accounting for the total absorbed dose received by the product unit (e.g., partial applications of the absorbed dose within one production lot).

(vi) Procedures for verifying routine dosimetry, i.e., assuring each production lot receives the total absorbed dose. Establishments may either position one dosimeter at the regions of minimum and maximum absorbed dose (or at one region verified to represent such) on at least the first, middle, and last product unit in each production lot or use statistically based validation and dose mapping to determine the number and placement of dosimeters in each production lot.

(vii) Procedures for verifying the relationship of absorbed dose as measured by the dosimeter to time exposure of the product unit to the radiation source.

(viii) Procedures for verifying the integrity of the radiation source and processing procedure. Aside from expected and verified radiation source activity decay for radionuclide sources, the radiation source or processing procedure must not be altered, modified, replenished, or adjusted without repeating dose mapping of product units to redefine the regions of minimum and maximum absorbed dose.
