
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 424 - PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Food Ingredients and Sources of Radiation
###### ยง 424.22 Certain other permitted uses.
####### Documentation.

(3)Official establishments that irradiate meat food or poultry products must have the following documentation on premises, available to FSIS:

(i) Documentation that the irradiation facility is licensed or possesses gamma radiation sources registered with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) or the appropriate State government acting under authority granted by the NRC.

(ii) Documentation that the machine radiation source irradiation facility is registered with the appropriate State government, if applicable.

(iii) Documentation that a worker safety program addressing OSHA regulations (29 CFR chapter XVII) is in place.

(iv) Citations or other documents that relate to incidences in which the establishment was found not to comply with Federal or State agency requirements for irradiation facilities.

(v) A certification by the operator that the irradiation facility personnel will only operate under supervision of a person who has successfully completed a course of instruction for operators of food irradiation facilities.

(vi) A certification by the operator that the key irradiation personnel, who monitor or control daily operations, have been trained in food technology, irradiation processing, and radiation health and safety.
