
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 424 - PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OPERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Food Ingredients and Sources of Radiation
###### ยง 424.22 Certain other permitted uses.
####### Labeling.

(4)(i) The labels on packages of meat food and poultry products irradiated in their entirety, in conformance with this section and with 21 CFR 179.26(a) and (b), must bear the logo shown at the end of this paragraph. Unless the word "Irradiated" is part of the product name, labels also must bear a statement such as "Treated with radiation" or "Treated by irradiation." The logo must be placed in conjunction with the required statement, if the statement is used. The statement is not required to be more prominent than the declaration of ingredients required under ยง 317.2(c)(2) of this chapter.

(ii) For meat food or poultry products that have been irradiated in their entirety, but that are not sold in packages, the required logo must be displayed to the purchaser with either the labeling of the bulk container plainly in view or a counter sign, card, or other appropriate device bearing the information that the product has been treated with radiation. In either case, the information must be prominently and conspicuously displayed to purchasers. Unless the word "Irradiated" is part of the product name, the labeling counter sign, card, or other device also must bear a statement such as "Treated with radiation" or "Treated by irradiation." The logo must be placed in conjunction with the required statement, if the statement is used.

(iii) The inclusion of an irradiated meat food or poultry product ingredient in any multi-ingredient meat food or poultry product must be reflected in the ingredient statement on the finished product labeling.

(iv) Optional labeling statements about the purpose for radiation processing may be included on the product label in addition to the stated requirements elsewhere in this section, provided that such statements are not false or misleading. Statements that there has been a specific reduction in microbial pathogens must be substantiated by processing documentation.
