
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 431 - THERMALLY PROCESSED, COMMERCIALLY STERILE PRODUCTS
##### ยง 431.2 Containers and closures.
###### Teardown examinations.

(2)Teardown examinations of double seams formed by each closing machine head must be performed by a closure technician at a frequency sufficient to ensure proper closure. These examinations should be made at intervals of not more than 4 hours of continuous closing machine operation. At least one container from each closing head must be examined on the packer's end during each regular examination period. Examination results along with any necessary corrective actions, such as adjusting or repairing the closing machine, must be promptly recorded by the closure technician. The establishment must have container specification guidelines for double seam integrity on file and available for review by Program employees. A teardown examination of the can maker's end must be performed on at least one container selected from each closing machine during each examination period except when teardown examinations are made on incoming empty containers or when, in the case of self-manufactured containers, the containers are made in the vicinity of the establishment and the container plant records are made available to Program employees. Additional teardown examinations on the packer's end should be made at the beginning of production, immediately following every jam in a closing machine and after closing machine adjustment (including adjustment for a change in container size). The following procedures must be used in teardown examinations of double seams:
