
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 439 - ACCREDITATION OF NON-FEDERAL LABORATORIES FOR ANALYTICAL TESTING OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND EGG PRODUCTS
##### ยง 439.10 Criteria for obtaining accreditation.

(a) Analytical laboratories may be accredited for the analyses of foodborne indicator and pathogen analytes, or a specified chemical residue or a class of chemical residues, in raw or processed meat, poultry, and egg products. Analytical laboratories also may be accredited for the analyses of food chemistry components in raw or processed meat and poultry products.

(b) Accreditation will be granted only if the applying laboratory successfully satisfies FSIS requirements that are stated in this part.

(c) To obtain FSIS accreditation, an analytical laboratory must:

(1) Be supervised by a person holding, at a minimum, a bachelor's degree in biology, chemistry, microbiology, food science, food technology, or a related field.

(i) For food chemistry accreditation, the supervisor must also have one year of experience in food chemistry analysis, or equivalent qualifications.

(ii) For chemical residue accreditation, either the supervisor or the analyst assigned to analyze the sample must also have three years of experience determining analytes at or below part per million levels, or equivalent qualifications.

(iii) For indicator organisms or pathogen accreditation, either the supervisor or the analyst assigned to analyze the sample must also have three years of experience in foodborne pathogen analyses or equivalent qualifications.
