
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 439 - ACCREDITATION OF NON-FEDERAL LABORATORIES FOR ANALYTICAL TESTING OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND EGG PRODUCTS
##### ยง 439.10 Criteria for obtaining accreditation.
###### www.fsis.usda.gov.,www.aoac.org.

(2) Demonstrate the capability to achieve quality assurance levels that are within acceptable limits as determined by evaluation that is consistent with ISO 13528 for the analysis of initial accreditation proficiency testing samples, in the analyte category for which accreditation is sought. FSIS and some Association of Official Analytical Collaboration (AOAC) International analytical test procedures are acceptable for use in this program. FSIS procedures may be found on the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) FSIS website atAOAC procedures may be found on the AOAC website at

(3) Complete a second set of proficiency testing samples if the results of the first set of proficiency testing samples are unsuccessful.

(i) The second set of proficiency testing samples will be provided within 30 days following the date of receipt by FSIS of a request from the applying laboratory. The second set of proficiency testing samples will be analyzed only for the analyte(s) or analyte classes for which unacceptable initial results had been obtained by the laboratory.

(ii) If the results of the second set of proficiency testing samples are unsuccessful, the laboratory may request a third set of proficiency testing samples after a 60-day waiting period, commencing from the date of notification by FSIS of unsuccessful results. The third set of proficiency testing samples will be analyzed only for the analyte(s) or analyte classes for which unacceptable initial results had been obtained by the laboratory.

(iii) If the laboratory is unsuccessful for the third set and still wishes to pursue accreditation, the ALP will require a new application and an application fee if the initial accreditation process is not completed within eleven months. Documentation of corrective action(s) related to the previous unsuccessful accreditation attempt must be submitted to and accepted by the ALP.

(4) Allow inspection of the laboratory facility and pertinent documents by FSIS officials prior to the determination of granting accredited status.

(5) Pay the accreditation fee by the date required.
