
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 439 - ACCREDITATION OF NON-FEDERAL LABORATORIES FOR ANALYTICAL TESTING OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND EGG PRODUCTS
##### ยง 439.20 Criteria for maintaining accreditation.
###### Suspension.

(j)If placed on suspension, an accredited laboratory must meet the ALP requirements as prescribed in this section in order to remove the suspension status. If the laboratory is unsuccessful in meeting the requirements to remove the suspension status, accreditation will be revoked.

(1) Laboratories that are suspended due to performance or response issues enter a waiting period of 60 days from the effective date of that action. After the 60-day period has passed, if the laboratory wishes to pursue reinstatement to the ALP, the laboratory must submit a written corrective action plan specifying what corrections were made and illustrate to FSIS that the corrections are effective or would reasonably be expected to be effective.

(i) After the corrective action plan has been accepted by the ALP, the laboratory must successfully analyze a set of initial accreditation proficiency testing samples for the analyte(s) that triggered the suspension and meet all other program requirements including payment of any annual fees that are due. The ALP may perform an on-site inspection at the laboratory's facility and/or require the laboratory to provide documentation to confirm that it meets the requirements of the program.

(ii) The suspended laboratory is allowed two attempts to successfully analyze the initial accreditation proficiency testing set(s) of samples.

(2) Laboratories that are suspended due to indictment or charges as described in ยง 439.52 may not seek removal of suspension status until being cleared of said indictment or charges.
