
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter E - Regulatory Requirements Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act
#### PART 442 - QUANTITY OF CONTENTS LABELING AND PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCURATE WEIGHTS
##### ยง 442.2 Definitions and procedures for determining net weight compliance.
###### http://bookstore.gpo.gov.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) For the purpose of ยง 442.1 of this part, the reasonable variations allowed, and the definitions and the procedures to be used, in determining net weight and net weight compliance are presented in the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Handbook 133, "Checking the Net Contents of Packaged Goods," Fourth Edition, January 2005, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of NIST Handbook 133 may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, 732 N. Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20401. You may contact the Government Printing Office Toll-Free at 1-866-512-1800 or go to:You may inspect a copy of NIST Handbook 133 at the FSIS Docket Room, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Room 2534, Washington, DC 20250. You can contact the FSIS Docket room by calling 202-720-0344 or 202-720-3813. The NIST Handbook 133 is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) The following NIST Handbook 133 requirements are not incorporated by reference.
