
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter F - Mandatory Inspection of Fish of the Order Siluriformes and Products of Such Fish
#### PART 541 - MARKS, MARKING AND LABELING OF PRODUCTS AND CONTAINERS
##### ยง 541.7 Labels required; supervision of a Program employee.
###### General labeling requirements.

(a)The requirements in part 317, subpart A, of this chapter, governing labels and labeling, safe-handling labeling, abbreviations of official marks, the use of approved labels, the labeling of products for foreign commerce, prohibited practices, the reuse of official inspection marks, filling of containers, relabeling of products, the storage and distribution of labels, and the requirements for packaging materials, apply to fish and fish products.

(b) A country of origin statement on the label of any fish "covered commodity" as defined in 7 CFR part 60, subpart A, that is sold by a "retailer," as defined in 7 CFR 60.124, must comply with the requirements of 7 CFR 60.200 and 60.300.

(c) The safe handling instructions required on labels of fish and fish products specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall replace statements that include the terms "meat" and "poultry" with the following:

(1) In the rationale statement, "This product was prepared from inspected and passed fish. Some food products may contain bacteria that could cause illness if the product is mishandled and cooked improperly. For your protection, follow these safe handling instructions." This statement shall be placed immediately after the heading and before the safe handling statements.

(2) In the labeling statements, "Keep raw fish separate from other foods. Wash working surfaces (including cutting boards), utensils, and hands after touching raw fish. (A graphic illustration of soapy hands under a faucet shall be displayed next to statement.)"
