
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter B - Cooperative Control and Eradication of Livestock or Poultry Diseases
#### PART 51 - ANIMALS DESTROYED BECAUSE OF BRUCELLOSIS
##### Subpart A - Indemnity for Cattle, Bison, and Swine
###### ยง 51.7 Claims for indemnity.

(a) Claims for indemnity for animals destroyed because of brucellosis shall be presented on indemnity claim forms furnished by APHIS on which the owner of the animals covered thereby shall certify that the animals are or are not subject to any mortgage as defined in this part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the APHIS indemnity claim form shall be signed by the owner and by each person holding a mortgage on the animals, consenting to the payment of any indemnity allowed to the person specified thereon. Payment will be made only if the claimant has submitted a complete indemnity claim form to, and such claim has been approved by the Veterinarian in Charge or by an APHIS representative designated by him. On claims for indemnity made under the provisions of ยง 51.3, the Veterinarian in Charge or an APHIS representative designated by him shall record on the APHIS indemnity claim form the amount of Federal and State indemnity payments that appear to be due to the owner of the animals. The owner of the animals shall be furnished a copy of the completed APHIS indemnity claim form. The Veterinarian in Charge or an APHIS representative designated by him shall then forward the completed APHIS indemnity claim form to the Administrator for further action on the claim. No charges for holding the animals on the farm pending slaughter or for trucking by the owner shall be so deducted or otherwise paid by the United States Department of Agriculture.

(b) Claims for indemnity for registered cattle shall be accompanied by the cattle's registration papers issued in the name of the owner. If the registration papers are unavailable or if the cattle are less than 1 year old and are not registered at the time the claim for indemnity is submitted, the Veterinarian in Charge may grant a 60-day extension or the Administrator may grant an extension longer than 60 days for the presentation of registration papers.
