
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter I - Egg Products Inspection
#### PART 590 - INSPECTION OF EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS (EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT)
##### Subpart A - General
###### Eggs and Egg Products Not Intended for Human Food
####### § 590.45 Prohibition on eggs and egg products not intended for use as human food.

(a) No person shall buy, sell, or transport or offer to buy or sell, or offer or receive for transportation in commerce, any eggs or egg products which are not intended for use as human food, unless they are denatured or decharacterized, unless shipped under seal as authorized in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section or in §§ 590.504(c) and 590.720(a) and identified as required by the regulations in this part.

(b) No person shall import or export shell eggs classified as loss, inedible, or incubator rejects or any egg products which are unwholesome, adulterated, or are otherwise unfit for human food purposes, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, unless they are denatured or decharacterized and identified as required by the regulations in this part.

(c) Egg products which are unwholesome, adulterated, or are otherwise unfit for human food purposes that are not denatured or decharacterized may be exported to foreign countries for industrial use or animal food under the following provisions:

(1) Authorized government official of the foreign country shall approve the importation of such products into that country.

(2) The egg products shall be shipped under U.S. Government seal and identified as required in § 590.840.

(3) Provisions for the control of such inedible product in the foreign country to preclude its use as human food must be established and approved by the Administrator. Such control may consist of, but not be limited to, receipt and inspection by an appropriate U.S. Government official, an official of an approved meat, poultry, or egg products inspection system of the foreign government, or, when acceptable to the Administrator, a foreign government official including other foreign health authorities.

(d) Foreign governments may petition the Administrator for approval to import into this country egg products which are unwholesome, adulterated, or otherwise unfit for human food purposes that are not denatured or decharacterized for industrial use or animal food requirements. Such products shall be subject to the provisions of this part and other applicable laws and regulations for importation into the United States.
