
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter I - Egg Products Inspection
#### PART 590 - INSPECTION OF EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS (EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT)
##### Subpart A - General
###### Identifying and Marking Product
####### § 590.410 Egg products required to be labeled.

(a)(1) Packaged egg products that require special handling to maintain their wholesome condition must have the statement "Keep Refrigerated," "Keep Frozen," "Perishable Keep Under Refrigeration," or such similar statement prominently displayed on the principal display panel.

(2) Egg products that are distributed frozen and thawed prior to or during display for sale at retail must bear the statement "Keep Frozen" on the shipping container. Consumer-sized containers for such egg products must bear the statement "Previously Handled Frozen for Your Protection, Refreeze or Keep Refrigerated."

(3) The labels of packages of egg products produced from shell eggs that have been treated with ionizing radiation must reflect that treatment in the ingredient statement on the finished product labeling.

(b) Containers, portable tanks, and bulk shipments of edible egg products produced in official plants must be labeled in accordance with §§ 590.411 through 590.415 and must bear the official identification shown in Figure 1 of § 590.413.

(c) Bulk shipments of unpasteurized egg products and microbial pathogen-positive egg products produced in official plants must bear a label containing the words "date of loading," followed by a suitable space in which the date the container, tanker truck, or portable tank is loaded must be inserted. The label must be conspicuously located and printed and affixed on material that cannot be detached or effaced due to exposure to weather. Before the truck or tank is removed from the place where it is unloaded, the carrier must remove or obliterate the label. Such shipments must also bear the official identification shown in Figure 2 of § 590.415.
