
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter I - Egg Products Inspection
#### PART 590 - INSPECTION OF EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS (EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT)
##### Subpart A - General
###### Entry of Material Into Official Egg Products Plants
####### ยง 590.435 Use of food ingredients and approval of materials.

(a)(1) No substance which is a "food additive" as defined under 21 U.S.C. 321(s), including sources of radiation, may be used in the processing of egg products unless this use is authorized under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(2) No substance which is intended to impart color in any egg product may be used unless such use is authorized under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(3) Substances and ingredients used in the processing of egg products capable of use as human food must be clean, wholesome, and unadulterated.

(b) Substances permitted for use in egg products in subsection(a) will be permitted for such use under this chapter, subject to declaration requirements in ยง 424.22(c) of this chapter and ยง 590.411, unless precluded from such use or further restricted in this chapter. Such substances must be safe and effective under conditions of use and not result in the adulteration of product. The Administrator may require, in addition to listing the ingredients, a declaration of the additive and the purpose of its use.

(c) Substances to be used in the processing of egg products must be safe under the conditions of their intended use and in amounts sufficient to accomplish their intended purpose. Such substances may not promote deception or cause the product to be otherwise adulterated or unwholesome. Scientific data showing the additive meets the above specified criteria must be maintained and made available to FSIS inspection program personnel.
