
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter III - Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter I - Egg Products Inspection
#### PART 590 - INSPECTION OF EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS (EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT)
##### Subpart A - General
###### Sanitary, Processing, and Facility Requirements
####### ยง 590.510 Classifications of shell eggs used in the processing of egg products.

(a) The eggs must be sorted and classified into the following categories:

(1) Eggs listed in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Dirty.

(3) Leakers as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(4) Eggs from other than chicken; duck, turkey, guinea, and goose eggs.

(5) Other eggs-satisfactory for use as breaking stock.

(b) Shell eggs having strong odors or eggs received in cases having strong odors shall be candled and broken separately to determine their acceptability.

(c) Shell eggs, when presented for breaking, shall be of edible interior quality and the shell shall be sound and free of adhering dirt and foreign material, except that:

(1) When presented for breaking, eggs must have an edible interior quality and the shell must be sound and free of adhering dirt and foreign material. However, checks and eggs with a portion of the shell missing may be used when the shell is free of adhering dirt and foreign material and the shell membranes are not ruptured.

(2) Eggs with clean shells which are damaged in candling and/or transfer and have a portion of the shell and shell membranes missing may be used only when the yolk is unbroken and the contents of the egg are not exuding over the outside shell. Such eggs shall be placed in leaker trays and be broken promptly.

(3) Eggs with meat or blood spots may be used if the spots are removed.

(d) All loss or inedible eggs must be placed in a designated container and handled as required in ยง 590.504(c). Eggs extensively damaged during breaking, whether not completely cracked open mechanically or in the movement of trays of eligible eggs for hand breaking, must be broken promptly. For the purpose of this section and ยง 590.522, inedible and loss eggs include crusted yolks, filthy and decomposed eggs, and the following:

(1) Any egg with visible foreign matter other than removable blood and meat spots in the egg meat.

(2) Any egg with a portion of the shell and shell membranes missing and with egg meat adhering to or in contact with the outside of the shell.

(3) Any egg with dirt or foreign material adhering to the shell and with cracks in the shell and shell membranes.

(4) Liquid egg recovered from shell egg containers and leaker trays.

(5) Open leakers made in the washing operation.

(6) Any egg which shows evidence that the contents are or have been exuding prior to transfer from the case.

(e) Incubator reject eggs shall not be brought into the official plant.
