
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter B - Cooperative Control and Eradication of Livestock or Poultry Diseases
#### PART 54 - CONTROL OF SCRAPIE
##### Subpart A - Scrapie Indemnification Program
###### ยง 54.7 Procedures for destruction of animals.
####### Cement, wood, metal and other non-earth surfaces, tools, equipment, instruments, feed, hay, bedding, and other materials.

(2)Organic and/or inorganic materials may be disposed of by incineration or burial. Inorganic material and wood structures may be cleaned and disinfected. To disinfect, remove all organic material and incinerate, bury, till under, or compost the removed organic material in areas not accessed by domestic or wild ruminants until it can be incinerated, buried, or tilled under. Clean and wash all surfaces, tools, equipment, and instruments using hot water and detergent. Allow all surfaces, tools, equipment, and instruments to dry completely before disinfecting and sanitizing using one of the following methods:

(i) Autoclave instruments, small tools, and other items at 136 &#xB0;C for 1 hour;

(ii) To clean dry surfaces, apply a 2-percent chlorine bleach solution at room temperature (at least 18.3 &#xB0;C for 1 hour, or apply a 1-molar solution of sodium hydroxide (approximately 5 oz. of sodium hydroxide dissolved in l gallon water) at room temperature for at least 1 hour. Note: A 2-molar solution is more effective than a 1-molar solution and should be used when circumstances permit.

(iii) Use a product registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) specifically for reduction of prion infectivity at these sites in accordance with the label.

(iv) Use a product in accordance with an emergency exemption issued by the EPA for reduction of prion infectivity at these sites.
