
# Title 9 - Animals and Animal Products
## Chapter I - Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
### Subchapter B - Cooperative Control and Eradication of Livestock or Poultry Diseases
#### PART 54 - CONTROL OF SCRAPIE
##### ยง 54.1 Definitions.
###### Exposed animal.

Any animal or embryo that:

(1) Has been in a flock with a scrapie-positive female animal;

(2) Has been in an enclosure with a scrapie-positive female animal at any location;

(3) Resides in a noncompliant flock; or

(4) Has resided on the premises of a flock before or while it was designated by a DSE an infected or source flock and before a flock plan was completed. An animal shall not be designated an exposed animal if it only resided on the premises before the date that infection was most likely introduced to the premises as determined by a Federal or State representative. If the probable date of infection cannot be determined based on the epidemiologic investigation, a date 2 years before the birth of the oldest scrapie-positive animal born in that flock will be used. If the actual birth date is unknown, the date of birth will be estimated based on examination of the teeth and any available records. If an age estimate cannot be made, the animal will be assumed to have been 48 months of age on the date samples were collected for scrapie diagnosis. Exposed animals will be further designated as genetically resistant exposed sheep, genetically less susceptible exposed sheep, genetically susceptible exposed animals, or low-risk exposed animals. An animal will no longer be an exposed animal if it is redesignated in accordance with ยง 79.4 of this chapter.
