
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 5b.5 Notification of or access to records.
##### except that,

(iii) An individual who makes a request on behalf of a minor or legal incompetent as authorized under ยง 5b.10 of this part shall verify his relationship to the minor or legal incompetent, in addition to verifying his own identity, by providing a copy of the minor's birth certificate, a court order, or other competent evidence of guardianship to the responsible Department official;an individual is not required to verify his relationship to the minor or legal incompetent when he is not required to verify his own identity or when evidence of his relationship to the minor or legal incompetent has been previously given to the responsible Department official.

(iv) An individual shall further verify his identity if he is requesting notification of or access to sensitive records. Any further verification shall parallel the record to which notification or access is being sought. Such further verification may include such particulars as the individual's years of attendance at a particular educational institution, rank attained in the uniformed services, date or place of birth, names of parents, or an occupation.

(v) An individual who makes a request by telephone shall verify his identity by providing to the responsible Department official identifying particulars which parallel the record to which notification or access is being sought. If the responsible Department official determines that the particulars provided by telephone are insufficient, the requester will be required to submit the request in writing or in person. Telephone requests will not be accepted where an individual is requesting notification of or access to sensitive records.
