
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 86 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE PREVENTION
#### Subpart E - Appeal Procedures
##### ยง 86.405 What are the requirements for filing written submissions?

(a) Any written submission under this subpart must be filed by hand-delivery, by mail, or by facsimile transmission. The Secretary discourages the use of facsimile transmission for documents longer than five pages.

(b) If a party files a brief or other document, the party shall serve a copy of the filed material on the other party on the filing date by hand-delivery or by mail. If agreed upon by the parties, service of a document may be made upon the other party by facsimile transmission.

(c) Any written submission must be accompanied by a statement certifying the date that the filed material was filed and served on the other party.

(d)(1) The filing date for a written submission is the date the document is-

(i) Hand-delivered;

(ii) Mailed; or

(iii) Sent by facsimile transmission.

(2) If a scheduled filing date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the filing deadline is the next Federal business day.

(e) A party filing by facsimile transmission is responsible for confirming that a complete and legible copy of the document was received by the Department.

(f) If a document is filed by facsimile transmission, the Secretary or the designated Department official, as applicable, may require the filing of a follow-up hard copy by hand-delivery or by mail within a reasonable period of time.
