
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 5b.7 Procedures for correction or amendment of records.
##### except that,

(a) Any subject individual may request that his record be corrected or amended if he believes that the record is not accurate, timely, complete, or relevant or necessary to accomplish a Department function. A subject individual making a request to amend or correct his record shall address his request to the responsible Department official in writing;the request need not be in writing if the subject individual makes his request in person and the responsible Department official corrects or amends the record at that time. The subject individual shall specify in each request:

(1) The system of records from which the record is retrieved;

(2) The particular record which he is seeking to correct or amend;

(3) Whether he is seeking an addition to or a deletion or substitution of the record; and,

(4) His reasons for requesting correction or amendment of the record.

(b) A request for correction or amendment of a record will be acknowledged within 10 working days of its receipt unless the request can be processed and the subject individual informed of the responsible Department official's decision on the request within that 10 day period.

(c) If the responsible Department official agrees that the record is not accurate, timely, or complete based on a preponderance of the evidence, the record will be corrected or amended. The record will be deleted without regard to its accuracy, if the record is not relevant or necessary to accomplish the Department function for which the record was provided or is maintained. In either case, the subject individual will be informed in writing of the correction, amendment, or deletion and, if accounting was made of prior disclosures of the record, all previous recipients of the record will be informed of the corrective action taken.

(d) If the responsible Department official does not agree that the record should be corrected or amended, the subject individual will be informed in writing of the refusal to correct or amend the record. He will also be informed that he may appeal the refusal to correct or amend his record ยง 5b.8 of this part.
