
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 86 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE PREVENTION
#### Subpart E - Appeal Procedures
##### ยง 86.410 What are the procedures for issuance of a decision?

(a)(1) The ALJ issues a written decision to the IHE, the designated Department official, and the Secretary by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 30 days after-

(i) The last brief is filed;

(ii) The last day of the hearing if one is held; or

(iii) The date on which the ALJ terminates the hearing in accordance with ยง 86.401(c)(3).

(2) The ALJ's decision states whether the violation or violations contained in the Secretary's notification occurred, and articulates the reasons for the ALJ's finding.

(3) The ALJ bases findings of fact only on evidence in the hearing record and on matters given judicial notice.

(b)(1) The ALJ's decision is the final decision of the agency. However, the Secretary reviews the decision on request of either party, and may review the decision on his or her own initiative.

(2) If the Secretary decides to review the decision on his or her own initiative, the Secretary informs the parties of his or her intention to review by written notice sent within 15 days of the Secretary's receipt of the ALJ's decision.

(c)(1) Either party may request review by the Secretary by submitting a brief or written materials to the Secretary within 20 days of the party's receipt of the ALJ's decision. The submission must explain why the decision of the ALJ should be modified, reversed, or remanded. The other party shall respond within 20 days of receipt of the brief or written materials filed by the opposing party.

(2) Neither party may introduce new evidence on review.

(d) The decision of the ALJ ordering the repayment of Federal financial assistance or terminating the eligibility of an IHE does not take effect pending the Secretary's review.

(e)(1) The Secretary reviews the ALJ's decision considering only evidence introduced into the record.

(2) The Secretary's decision may affirm, modify, reverse or remand the ALJ's decision and includes a statement of reasons for the decision.
