
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### ยง 5b.9 Disclosure of records.
##### Provided,

(5) To a recipient who has provided the agency with advance written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record;That, the record is transferred in a form that does not identify the subject individual.

(6) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine whether the record has such value.

(7) To another government agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of such government agency or instrumentality has submitted a written request to the Department specifying the record desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought.

(8) To an individual pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual if a notice of the disclosure is transmitted to the last known address of the subject individual.

(9) To either House of Congress, or to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee.

(10) To the Comptroller General, or any of the Comptroller General's authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office.

(11) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
