
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### § 5b.11 Exempt systems.
##### Specific systems of records exempted under (j)(2).

(b)The Department exempts the Investigative Files of the Inspector General ED/OIG (18-10-01) and the Hotline Complaint Files of the Inspector General ED/OIG (18-10-04) systems of records from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a and this part:

(1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and § 5b.9(a)(1) and (c)(3) of this part, regarding access to an accounting of disclosures of a record.

(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(4) and §§ 5b.7(c) and 5b.8(b) of this part, regarding notification to outside parties and agencies of correction or notation of dispute made in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).

(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) (1) through (4) and (f) and §§ 5b.5(a)(1) and (c), 5b.7, and 5b.8 of this part, regarding notification or access to records and correction or amendment of records.

(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) and § 5b.4(a)(1) of this part, regarding maintaining only relevant and necessary information.

(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(2) and § 5b.4(a)(2) of this part, regarding collection of information from the subject individual.

(6) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) and § 5b.4(a)(3) of this part, regarding notice to individuals asked to provide information to the Department.

(7) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), regarding inclusion of information in the system notice about procedures for notification, access, correction, and source of records.

(8) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5), regarding maintaining records with requisite accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness.

(9) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8), regarding service of notice on subject individual if a record is made available under compulsory legal process if that process becomes a matter of public record.

(10) 5 U.S.C. 552a(g), regarding civil remedies for violation of the Privacy Act.
