
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 5b - PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
#### § 5b.11 Exempt systems.
##### Specific systems of records exempted under (k)(2).

(c)(1) The Department exempts the Investigative Files of the Inspector General ED/OIG (18-10-01), the Hotline Complaint Files of the Inspector General ED/OIG (18-10-04), and the Office of Inspector General Data Analytics System (ODAS) (18-10-02) from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a and this part to the extent that these systems of records consist of investigatory material and complaints that may be included in investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes:

(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and § 5b.9(c)(3) of this part, regarding access to an accounting of disclosures of records.

(ii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) (1) through (4) and (f) and §§ 5b.5(a)(1) and (c), 5b.7, and 5b.8 of this part, regarding notification of and access to records and correction or amendment of records.

(iii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) and § 5b.4(a)(1) of this part, regarding the requirement to maintain only relevant and necessary information.

(iv) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), regarding inclusion of information in the system notice about procedures for notification, access, correction, and source of records.

(2) The Department exempts the Complaint Files and Log, Office for Civil Rights (18-08-01) from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a and this part:

(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and § 5b.9(c)(3) of this part, regarding access to an accounting of disclosures of records.

(ii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) (1) through (4) and (f) and §§ 5b.5(a)(1) and (c), 5b.7, and 5b.8 of this part, regarding notification of and access to records and correction or amendment of records.

(iii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) (G) and (H), regarding inclusion of information in the system notice about procedures for notification, access, and correction of records.
