
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter I - Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education
#### PART 100 - NONDISCRIMINATION UNDER PROGRAMS RECEIVING FEDERAL ASSISTANCE THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION EFFECTUATION OF TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964
##### ยง 100.10 Decisions and notices.
###### Review in certain cases by the Secretary.

(e)If the Secretary has not personally made the final decision referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, a recipient or applicant or the counsel for the Department may request the Secretary to review a decision of the Reviewing Authority in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the responsible Department official. Such review is not a matter of right and shall be granted only where the Secretary determines there are special and important reasons therefor. The Secretary may grant or deny such request, in whole or in part. He may also review such a decision upon his own motion in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the responsible Department official. In the absence of a review under this paragraph, a final decision referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) of this section shall become the final decision of the Department when the Secretary transmits it as such to Congressional committees with the report required under section 602 of the Act. Failure of an applicant or recipient to file an exception with the Reviewing Authority or to request review under this paragraph shall not be deemed a failure to exhaust administrative remedies for the purpose of obtaining judicial review.
