
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter I - Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education
#### PART 105 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
##### ยง 105.40 Communications.

(a) The Department shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public, as follows:

(1)(i) The Department shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids if necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the Department.

(ii) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Department shall give primary consideration to the request of the individual with handicaps.

(iii) The Department need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) If the Department communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDDs) or equally effective telecommunication systems must be used.

(b) The Department shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.

(c) The Department shall provide signs at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility must be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.

(d)(1) This section does not require the Department to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens.

(2) The Department has the burden of proving that compliance with ยง 105.40 would result in that alteration or those burdens.

(3) The decision that compliance would result in that alteration or those burdens must be made by the Secretary after considering all Department resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion.

(4) If an action required to comply with this section would result in that alteration or those burdens, the Department shall take any other action that would not result in the alteration or burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
