
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter I - Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education
#### PART 105 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
##### ยง 105.41 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the Department.

(b) As provided in ยง 105.30, the Department shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).

(c) The Deputy Under Secretary for Management is responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Management, Federal Building No. 6, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20202.

(d) The Department shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Department may extend this time period for good cause.

(e) If the Department receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The Department shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157) is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.

(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the Department shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the Department of the letter required by ยง 105.41(g). The Department may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Secretary.

(j) If the Secretary determines that additional information is needed for the complainant, he or she shall notify the complainant of the additional information needed to make his or her determination on the appeal.

(k) The Secretary shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal.

(l) The time limit in paragraph (g) of this section may be extended by the Secretary.

(m) The Secretary may delegate the authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated.
