
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 200 - TITLE I - IMPROVING THE ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT OF THE DISADVANTAGED
##### Subpart A - Improving Basic Programs Operated by Local Educational Agencies
###### Standards and Assessments
####### ยง 200.6 Inclusion of all students.
######## Recently arrived English learners.

(i)(1)(i) A State may exempt a recently arrived English learner, as defined in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, from one administration of the State's reading/language arts assessment under ยง 200.2 consistent with section 1111(b)(3)(A)(i)(I) of the Act.

(ii) If a State does not assess a recently arrived English learner on the State's reading/language arts assessment consistent with section 1111(b)(3)(A)(i)(I) of the Act, the State must count the year in which the assessment would have been administered as the first of the three years in which the student may take the State's reading/language arts assessment in a native language consistent with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) A State and its LEAs must report on State and local report cards required under section 1111(h) of the Act the number of recently arrived English learners who are not assessed on the State's reading/language arts assessment.

(iv) Nothing in this section relieves an LEA from its responsibility under applicable law to provide recently arrived English learners with appropriate instruction to enable them to attain English language proficiency as well as grade-level content knowledge in reading/language arts, mathematics, and science.

(2) A State must assess the English language proficiency of a recently arrived English learner pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section.

(3) A State must assess the mathematics and science achievement of a recently arrived English learner pursuant to ยง 200.2 with the frequency described in ยง 200.5(a).
