
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 200 - TITLE I - IMPROVING THE ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT OF THE DISADVANTAGED
##### Subpart A - Improving Basic Programs Operated by Local Educational Agencies
###### Schoolwide Programs
####### ยง 200.29 Consolidation of funds in a schoolwide program.
######## Special education.

(3)(i) The school may consolidate funds received under part B of the IDEA.

(ii) However, the amount of funds consolidated may not exceed the amount received by the LEA under part B of IDEA for that fiscal year, divided by the number of children with disabilities in the jurisdiction of the LEA, and multiplied by the number of children with disabilities participating in the schoolwide program.

(iii) The school may also consolidate funds received under section 7003(d) of the ESEA (Impact Aid) for children with disabilities in a schoolwide program.

(iv) A school that consolidates funds under part B of IDEA or section 7003(d) of the ESEA may use those funds for any activities under its schoolwide program plan but must comply with all other requirements of part B of IDEA, to the same extent it would if it did not consolidate funds under part B of IDEA or section 7003(d) of the ESEA in the schoolwide program.

(d) A school that consolidates and uses in a schoolwide program funds under subpart A of this part or from any other Federal program administered by the Secretary-

(1) Is not required to maintain separate fiscal accounting records, by program, that identify the specific activities supported by those particular funds; but

(2) Must maintain records that demonstrate that the schoolwide program, as a whole, addresses the intent and purposes of each of the Federal programs whose funds were consolidated to support the schoolwide program.

(e) Each State must modify or eliminate State fiscal and accounting barriers so that schools can easily consolidate funds from other Federal, State, and local sources in their schoolwide programs to improve educational opportunities and reduce unnecessary fiscal and accounting requirements.
