
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 12 - DISPOSAL AND UTILIZATION OF SURPLUS FEDERAL REAL PROPERTY FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES
#### Subpart B - Distribution of Surplus Federal Real Property
##### ยง 12.10 How is a Public Benefit Allowance (PBA) calculated?

(a) The Secretary calculates a PBA in accordance with the provisions of appendix A to this part taking into account the nature of the applicant, and the need for, impact of, and type of program and plan of use for the property, as described in that appendix.

(b) The following are illustrative examples of how a PBA would be calculated and applied under appendix A:

(1) Entity A is a specialized school that has had a building destroyed by fire, and that has existing facilities determined by the Secretary to be between 26 and 50% inadequate. It is proposing to use the surplus Federal real property to add a new physical education program. Entity A would receive a basic PBA of 70%, a 10% hardship organization allowance, a 20% allowance for inadequacy of existing school plant facilities, and a 10% utilization allowance for introduction of new instructional programs. Entity A would have a total PBA of 110%. If Entity A is awarded the surplus Federal real property, it would not be required to pay any cash for the surplus Federal real property, since the total PBA exceeds 100%.

(2) Entity B proposes to use the surplus Federal real property for nature walks. Because this qualifies as an outdoor educational program, Entity B would receive a basic PBA of 40%. If Entity B is awarded the surplus Federal real property, it would be required to pay 60% of the fair market value of the surplus Federal real property in cash at the time of the transfer.

(3) Entity C is an accredited university, has an ROTC unit, and proposes to use the surplus Federal real property for a school health clinic and for special education of the physically handicapped. Entity C would receive a basic PBA of 50% (as a college or university), a 20% accreditation organization allowance (accredited college or university), a 10% public service training organization allowance (ROTC), a 10% student health and welfare utilization allowance (school health clinic), and a 10% service to the handicapped utilization allowance (education of the physically handicapped). Entity C would have a total PBA of 100%. If Entity C is awarded the surplus Federal real property, it would not be required to pay any cash for the surplus Federal real property, since the total PBA is 100%.

(4) Entities A, B, and C all submit applications for the same surplus Federal real property. Unless the Secretary decides to apportion it, the Secretary transfers or leases the surplus Federal real property to Entity A, since its proposed program and plan of use has the highest total PBA.
