
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 206 - SPECIAL EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR STUDENTS WHOSE FAMILIES ARE ENGAGED IN MIGRANT AND OTHER SEASONAL FARMWORK - HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY PROGRAM AND COLLEGE ASSISTANCE MIGRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 206.4 What regulations apply to these programs?

The following regulations apply to HEP and CAMP:

(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs).

(3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions That Apply to Department Regulations).

(4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).

(5) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).

(6) 34 CFR part 84 (Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance)).

(7) [Reserved]

(8) 34 CFR part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses).

(9) 34 CFR part 97 (Protection of Human Subjects).

(10) 34 CFR part 98 (Student Rights in Research, Experimental Programs, and Testing).

(11) 34 CFR part 99 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy).

(b) The regulations in this part 206.

(c) The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted in 2 CFR part 3474, and the OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) in 2 CFR part 180, as adopted in 2 CFR part 3485.
