
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 206 - SPECIAL EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR STUDENTS WHOSE FAMILIES ARE ENGAGED IN MIGRANT AND OTHER SEASONAL FARMWORK - HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY PROGRAM AND COLLEGE ASSISTANCE MIGRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - What Kinds of Activities Does the Secretary Assist Under These Programs?
###### ยง 206.10 What types of services may be provided?
####### Types of services,HEP projects.

(b)-(1)A HEP project may provide the following types of services to assist participants in obtaining the equivalent of a secondary school diploma, and as needed, to assure the success of the participants in meeting the project's objectives and in succeeding at the secondary school level and beyond:

(i) Recruitment services to reach persons who are eligible under ยง 206.3 (a) and (b).

(ii) Educational services that provide instruction designed to help students pass an examination and obtain a certificate that meets the guidelines for high school equivalency established by the State in which the project is located.

(iii) Supportive services that include the following:

(A) Personal, vocational, and academic counseling;

(B) Placement services designed to place students in a university, college, or junior college program (including preparation for college entrance examinations), or in military services or career positions; and

(C) Health services.

(iv) Information concerning and assistance in obtaining available student financial aid.

(v) Stipends for high school equivalency program participants.

(vi) Housing for those enrolled in residential programs.

(vii) Exposure to cultural events, academic programs, and other educational and cultural activities usually not available to migrant youth.

(viii) Other essential supportive services, (such as transportation and child care) as needed, to ensure the success of eligible students.

(ix) Other activities to improve persistence and retention in postsecondary education.
