
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 206 - SPECIAL EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR STUDENTS WHOSE FAMILIES ARE ENGAGED IN MIGRANT AND OTHER SEASONAL FARMWORK - HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY PROGRAM AND COLLEGE ASSISTANCE MIGRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - What Kinds of Activities Does the Secretary Assist Under These Programs?
###### ยง 206.10 What types of services may be provided?
####### CAMP projects.

(2)A CAMP project may provide the following types of services to assist the participants in meeting the project's objectives and in succeeding in an academic program of study at the IHE:

(i) Outreach and recruitment services to reach persons who are eligible under ยง 206.3 (a) and (c).

(ii) Supportive and instructional services to improve placement, persistence, and retention in postsecondary education, including:

(A) Personal, academic, career economic education, or personal finance counseling as an ongoing part of the program;

(B) Tutoring and academic-skillbuilding instruction and assistance;

(C) Assistance with special admissions;

(D) Health services; and

(E) Other services as necessary to assist students in completing program requirements.

(iii) Assistance in obtaining student financial aid that includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(A) Stipends.

(B) Scholarships.

(C) Student travel.

(D) Career-oriented work-study.

(E) Books and supplies.

(F) Tuition and fees.

(G) Room and board.

(H) Other assistance necessary to assist students in completing their first year of college or university.

(iv) Housing support for students living in institutional facilities and commuting students.

(v) Exposure to cultural events, academic programs, and other activities not usually available to migrant youth.

(vi) Internships.

(vii) Other essential supportive services (such as transportation and child care) as necessary to ensure the success of eligible students.

(c) The health services, and other financial support services provided to participating students must:

(1) Be necessary to ensure their participation in the HEP or CAMP; and

(2) Not detract, because of the amount, from the basic educational services provided under those programs.
