
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 222.3 How does a local educational agency apply for assistance under section 8002 or 8003 of the Act?

An LEA must meet the following application requirements to be considered for a payment under section 8002 or 8003:

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, on or before January 31 of the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the LEA seeks assistance under section 8002 or section 8003, the LEA must-

(1) File with the Secretary a complete and signed application for payment under section 8002 or section 8003; and

(2) Certify to the Secretary that it will file, and file, a copy of the application referred to in paragraph (a) of this section with its SEA.

(b)(1) If any of the following events that give rise to eligibility for payment occur after the filing deadline in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an LEA must file a complete and signed application within the time limits required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section:

(i) The United States Government initiates or reactivates a Federal activity, or acquires real property.

(ii) The United States Congress enacts new legislation.

(iii) A reorganization of school districts takes place.

(iv) Property, previously determined by the Secretary not to be Federal property, is determined in writing by the Secretary to be Federal property.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, within 60 days after the applicable event occurs but not later than June 30 of the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the LEA seeks assistance under section 8002 or section 8003, the LEA must-

(i) File an application with the Secretary as permitted by paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and

(ii) File a copy of that application with its SEA.

(c)(1) If the SEA wishes to notify the Secretary of any inconsistencies or other concerns with an LEA's application, the SEA must do so-

(i) For an application subject to the filing deadlines in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, on or before February 15 of the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the LEA seeks assistance under section 8002 or section 8003; and

(ii) On or before fifteen days following the date by which an application subject to the filing deadlines in paragraph (b) of this section must be filed.

(2) The Secretary does not process for payment a timely filed application until any concerns timely raised by the SEA are resolved. If the Secretary does not receive comments or notification from the SEA by the applicable deadline set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary assumes that the data and statements in the application are, to the best of the SEA's knowledge, true, complete, and correct.

(d) If a filing date in this section falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the deadline for filing is the next succeeding business day.
