
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 222.8 What action must an applicant take upon a change in its boundary, classification, control, governing authority, or identity?

(a) Any applicant that is a party to an annexation, consolidation, deconsolidation, merger, or other similar action affecting its boundaries, classification, control, governing authority, or identity must provide the following information to the Secretary as soon as practicable:

(1) A description of the character and extent of the change.

(2) The effective date of the change.

(3) Full identification of all predecessor and successor LEAs.

(4) Full information regarding the disposition of the assets and liabilities of all predecessor LEAs.

(5) Identification of the governing body of all successor LEAs.

(6) The name and address of each authorized representative officially designated by the governing body of each successor LEA for purposes of the Act.

(b) If a payment is made under section 8002 or 8003 to an LEA that has ceased to be a legally constituted entity during the regular school term due to an action described in paragraph (a) of this section, the LEA may retain that payment if-

(1) An adjustment is made in the payment of a successor LEA to account for the payment to the predecessor LEA; or

(2)(i) The payment amount does not exceed the amount the predecessor LEA would have been eligible to receive if the change in boundaries or organization had not taken place; and

(ii) A successor LEA is not an eligible applicant.

(c) A predecessor LEA receiving any portion of a payment under section 8002 or 8003 that exceeds the amount allowed by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section must return the excessive portion to the Secretary, unless the Secretary determines otherwise under section 8012 of the Act.
