
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 222.19 What other statutes and regulations apply to this part?

(a) The following Federal statutes and regulations on nondiscrimination apply to assistance under this part:

(1) The provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352) (prohibition of discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin), and the implementing regulations (34 CFR part 100).

(2) The provisions of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-318) (prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sex), and the implementing regulations (34 CFR part 106).

(3) The provisions of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112) (prohibition of discrimination on the basis of disability), and the implementing regulations (34 CFR part 104).

(4) The provisions of title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-336) (prohibition of discrimination on basis of disability), and any implementing regulations.

(5) The provisions of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (Pub. L. 94-135) (prohibition of age discrimination), and any implementing regulations.

(b) The following Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR):

(1) Subparts A, E, F, and §§ 75.900 and 75.910 of 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs) for payments under sections 8003(d) (payments for federally connected children with disabilities), 8007 (construction), and 8008 (school facilities), except for the following:

(i) Section 75.603 does not apply to payments under section 8007 (construction) or section 8008 (school facilities).

(ii) Section 75.605 does not apply to payments under section 8007 (construction).

(iii) Sections 75.600-602, 75.604, and 75.606-617 apply to payments under section 8007 (construction) only to the extent that funds received under that section are used for major renovations or to construct new school facilities.

(2) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations).

(3) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).

(4) 34 CFR part 84 (Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance)).

(c) 2 CFR part 180, as adopted and amended as regulations of the Department in 2 CFR part 3485 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)).

(d) 2 CFR part 200, as adopted in 2 CFR part 3474 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards), for payments under sections 8003(d) (payments for federally connected children with disabilities), 8007 (construction), and 8008 (school facilities).
