
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Payments for Federally Connected Children Under Section 8003(b) of the Act
###### ยง 222.35 How does a local educational agency count the membership of its federally connected children?
####### in loco parentis

(A) Name (as it appears on the employer's payroll record) of the parent (mother, father, legal guardian or other person standing) who is employed on Federal property and with whom the pupil resides; and

(B) Name of employer, name and complete address of the Federal property on which the parent is employed (or other acceptable location information, such as a complete legal description or acceptable certification by a Federal agency).

(ii) If the parent is a member of the uniformed services on active duty, the name, rank, and branch of service of that parent.

(iii) If the parent is both an official of, and accredited by a foreign government, and a foreign military officer, the name, rank, and country of service.

(iv) If the parent is a civilian employed on a Federal vessel, the name of the vessel, hull number, homeport, and name of the controlling agency.

(4)(i) Every parent-pupil survey form must include the signature of the parent supplying the information, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, and the date of such signature, which must be on or after the survey date.

(ii) An LEA may accept an unsigned parent-pupil survey form, or a parent-pupil survey form that is signed by a person other than a parent, only under unusual circumstances. In those instances, the parent-pupil survey form must show why the parent did not sign the survey form, and when, how, and from whom the residence and employment information was obtained. Unusual circumstances may include, but are not limited to:

(A) A pupil who, on the survey date, resided with a person without full legal guardianship of the child while the pupil's parent or parents were deployed for military duty. In this case, the person with whom the child is residing may sign the parent-pupil survey form.

(B) A pupil who, on the survey date, was a ward of the juvenile justice system. In this case, an administrator of the institution where the pupil was held on the survey date may sign the parent-pupil survey form.

(C) A pupil who, on the survey date, was an emancipated youth may sign his or her own parent-pupil survey form.

(D) A pupil who, on the survey date, was at least 18 years old but who was not past the 12th grade may sign his or her own parent-pupil survey form.
