
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Payments for Federally Connected Children Under Section 8003(b) of the Act
###### ยง 222.35 How does a local educational agency count the membership of its federally connected children?
####### in loco parentis.

(iii) The Department does not accept a parent-pupil survey form signed by an employee of the school district who is not the student's mother, father, legal guardian or other person standing

(b) Source check. A source check is a type of survey tool that groups children being claimed on the Impact Aid application by Federal property. This form is used in lieu of the parent-pupil survey form to substantiate a pupil's place of residence or parent's place of employment on the survey date.

(1) The source check must include sufficient information to determine the eligibility of the Federal property and the individual children claimed on the form.

(2) A source check may also include:

(i) Certification by a parent's employer regarding the parent's place of employment;

(ii) Certification by a military or other Federal housing official as to the residence of each pupil claimed;

(iii) Certification by a military personnel official regarding the military active duty status of the parent of each pupil claimed as active duty uniformed services; or

(iv) Certification by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or authorized tribal official regarding the eligibility of Indian lands.

(c) Another method approved by the Secretary.
