
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - Payments for Federally Connected Children Under Section 8003(b) of the Act
###### ยง 222.39 How does a State educational agency identify generally comparable local educational agencies for local contribution rate purposes?
####### Grouping by grade span/legal classification, size, and location.

(4)(i) Divide all LEAs into groups by grade span (or the alternative grade-span groups described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) and, if relevant and sufficiently different from grade span, size, and location, legal classification; then subdivide these groups by size (into two or three subgroups for each grade span, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section); and further subdivide these groups by location (inside or outside an MSA).

(ii) In using both the size and location factors, the SEA shall subdivide according to the size factor before the location factor.

(b) After applying the following restrictions, the SEA shall compute an LCR according to the provisions of ยง 222.41 for each group of generally comparable LEAs identified under paragraph (a) of this section, as follows:

(1) The SEA shall not, when computing an LCR, include the following "significantly impacted" LEAs in any group of generally comparable LEAs:

(i) Any LEA having-in the third fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the LCR is being computed-20 percent or more of its ADA composed of children identified under section 8003(a)(1)(A)-(C).

(ii) Any LEA having-in the third fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the LCR is being computed-50 percent or more of its ADA composed of children identified under section 8003(a)(1)(A)-(G) who were eligible under ยง 222.36 to be counted as the basis for payment under section 8003.

(2) The SEA may not compute an LCR for any group that contains fewer than 10 LEAs.

(c) The LCR for a "significantly impacted" LEA described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the LCR of any group in which that LEA would be included based on grade span/legal classification, size, location, or a combination of these factors, if the LEA were not excluded as significantly impacted.

(d) This section does not apply to applicant LEAs located in-

(1) Puerto Rico;

(2) Wake Island;

(3) Guam;

(4) American Samoa;

(5) Any outlying area; and

(6) Any State in which there is only one LEA.
