
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Special Provisions for Local Educational Agencies That Claim Children Residing on Indian Lands
###### Indian Policies and Procedures
####### ยง 222.94 What are the responsibilities of the LEA with regard to Indian policies and procedures?

(a) An LEA that is subject to the requirements of ยง 222.91(a) must consult with and involve local tribal officials and parents of Indian children in the planning and development of:

(1) Its Indian policies and procedures (IPPs), and

(2) The LEA's general educational program and activities.

(b) An LEA's IPPs must include a description of the specific procedures for how the LEA will:

(1) Disseminate relevant applications, evaluations, program plans and information related to the LEA's education program and activities with sufficient advance notice to allow tribes and parents of Indian children the opportunity to review and make recommendations.

(2) Provide an opportunity for tribes and parents of Indian children to provide their views on the LEA's educational program and activities, including recommendations on the needs of their children and on how the LEA may help those children realize the benefits of the LEA's education programs and activities. As part of this requirement, the LEA will-

(i) Notify tribes and the parents of Indian children of the opportunity to submit comments and recommendations, considering the tribe's preference for method of communication, and

(ii) Modify the method of and time for soliciting Indian views, if necessary, to ensure the maximum participation of tribes and parents of Indian children.

(3) At least annually, assess the extent to which Indian children participate on an equal basis with non-Indian children in the LEA's education program and activities. As part of this requirement, the LEA will:

(i) Share relevant information related to Indian children's participation in the LEA's education program and activities with tribes and parents of Indian children; and

(ii) Allow tribes and parents of Indian children the opportunity and time to review and comment on whether Indian children participate on an equal basis with non-Indian children.

(4) Modify the IPPs if necessary, based upon the results of any assessment or input described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) Respond at least annually in writing to comments and recommendations made by tribes or parents of Indian children, and disseminate the responses to the tribe and parents of Indian children prior to the submission of the IPPs by the LEA.

(6) Provide a copy of the IPPs annually to the affected tribe or tribes.

(c)(1) An LEA that is subject to the requirements of ยง 222.91(a) must implement the IPPs described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) Each LEA that has developed IPPs shall review those IPPs annually to ensure that they comply with the provisions of this section, and are implemented by the LEA in accordance with this section.

(3) If an LEA determines, after input from the tribe and parents of Indian children, that its IPPs do not meet the requirements of this section, the LEA shall amend its IPPs to conform to those requirements within 90 days of its determination.

(4) An LEA that amends its IPPs shall, within 30 days, send a copy of the amended IPPs to-

(i) The Impact Aid Program Director for approval; and

(ii) The affected tribe or tribes.
