
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Special Provisions for Local Educational Agencies That Claim Children Residing on Indian Lands
###### Indian Policies and Procedures Complaint and Hearing Procedures
####### ยง 222.110 What are the procedures for conducting a hearing on a local educational agency's Indian policies and procedures?

Hearings on IPP complaints filed by an Indian tribe or tribes against an LEA are conducted as follows:

(a) The hearing must be open to the public.

(b) Parties may be represented by counsel.

(c)(1) Each party may submit oral and written testimony that is relevant to the issues in the proceeding and make recommendations concerning appropriate remedial actions.

(2) A party may object to evidence it considers to be irrelevant or unduly repetitious.

(d) No party shall communicate orally or in writing with the hearing examiner or the Assistant Secretary on matters under review, except minor procedural matters, unless all parties to the complaint are given-

(1) Timely and adequate notice of the communication; and

(2) Reasonable opportunity to respond.

(e) For each document that a party submits, the party shall-

(1) File one copy for inclusion in the record of the proceeding; and

(2) Provide a copy to each of the other parties to the proceeding.

(f) Each party shall bear only its own costs in the proceeding.
