
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Special Provisions for Local Educational Agencies That Claim Children Residing on Indian Lands
###### Withholding and Related Procedures for Indian Policies and Procedures
####### ยง 222.117 What procedures are followed after the Assistant Secretary issues a notice of intent to withhold payments?
######## An LEA that has not participated in an IPP hearing.

(d)(1) An LEA that has not participated in an IPP hearing has 30 days from the date of its receipt of the Assistant Secretary's notice of intent to withhold funds to file a written request for a withholding hearing with the Assistant Secretary. The written request for a withholding hearing must-

(i) Identify the issues of law and facts in dispute; and

(ii) State the LEA's position, together with the pertinent facts and reasons supporting that position.

(2) If the LEA's request for a withholding hearing is accepted, the Assistant Secretary sends written notification of acceptance to the LEA and the affected Indian tribe or tribes and forwards to the hearing examiner a copy of the Assistant Secretary's written notice, the LEA's request for a withholding hearing, and any other relevant documents.

(3) If the LEA's request for a withholding hearing is rejected, the Assistant Secretary notifies the LEA in writing that its request for a hearing has been rejected and provides the LEA with the reasons for the rejection.

(4) The Assistant Secretary rejects requests for withholding hearings that are not filed in accordance with the time for filing requirements described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. An LEA that files a timely request for a withholding hearing, but fails to meet the other filing requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, has 30 days from the date of receipt of the Assistant Secretary's notification of rejection to submit an acceptable amended request for a withholding hearing.

(e) If an LEA fails to file a written explanation in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, or a request for a withholding hearing or an amended request for a withholding hearing in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the Secretary proceeds to take appropriate administrative action to withhold funds without further notification to the LEA.
