
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart G - Special Provisions for Local Educational Agencies That Claim Children Residing on Indian Lands
###### Withholding and Related Procedures for Indian Policies and Procedures
####### ยง 222.118 How are withholding hearings conducted in this subpart?
######## Proceeding.

(c)(1) The parties to the withholding hearing are the Assistant Secretary and the affected LEA. An affected Indian tribe is not a party, but, at the discretion of the hearing examiner, may participate in the hearing and present its views on the issues relevant to the withholding determination.

(2) The parties may introduce all relevant evidence on the issues stated in the LEA's request for withholding hearing or other issues determined by the hearing examiner during the proceeding. The Assistant Secretary's notice of intent to withhold, the LEA's request for a withholding hearing, and all amendments and exhibits to those documents, must be made part of the hearing record.

(3) Technical rules of evidence, including the Federal Rules of Evidence, do not apply to hearings conducted under this subpart, but the hearing examiner may apply rules designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available, including allowing the cross-examination of witnesses.

(4) Each party may examine all documents and other evidence offered or accepted for the record, and may have the opportunity to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues.

(5) A transcript must be made of the oral evidence unless the parties agree otherwise.

(6) Each party may be represented by counsel.

(7) The hearing examiner is bound by all applicable statutes and regulations and may neither waive them nor rule them invalid.
