
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart J - Impact Aid Administrative Hearings and Judicial Review Under Section 8011 of the Act
###### ยง 222.156 How is an administrative hearing conducted?

Administrative hearings under this subpart are conducted as follows:

(a) The administrative hearing is conducted by an ALJ appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105, who issues rules of procedure that are proper and not inconsistent with this subpart.

(b) The parties may introduce all relevant evidence on the issues stated in the applicant's request for hearing or on other issues determined by the ALJ during the proceeding. The application in question and all amendments and exhibits must be made part of the hearing record.

(c) Technical rules of evidence, including the Federal Rules of Evidence, do not apply to hearings conducted under this subpart, but the ALJ may apply rules designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available, including allowing the cross-examination of witnesses.

(d) Each party may examine all documents and other evidence offered or accepted for the record, and may have the opportunity to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues.

(e) A transcript must be made of the oral evidence unless the parties agree otherwise.

(f) Each party may be represented by counsel.

(g) The ALJ is bound by all applicable statutes and regulations and may neither waive them nor rule them invalid.
