
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart K - Determinations Under Section 8009 of the Act
###### § 222.164 What procedures does the Secretary follow in making a determination under section 7009?
####### Submission.

(b)(1) A submission by a State or LEA under this section must be made in the manner requested by the Secretary and must contain the information and assurances as may be required by the Secretary in order to reach a determination under section 8009 and this subpart.

(2)(i) A State in a submission shall-

(A) Demonstrate how its State aid program comports with § 222.162; and

(B) Demonstrate for each LEA receiving funds under the Act that the proportion of those funds that will be taken into consideration comports with § 222.163.

(ii) The submission must be received by the Secretary no later than 120 calendar days before the beginning of the State's fiscal year for the year of the determination, and must include (except as provided in § 222.161(c)(2)) final second preceding fiscal year disparity data enabling the Secretary to determine whether the standard in § 222.162 has been met. The submission is considered timely if received by the Secretary on or before the filing deadline or if it bears a U.S. Postal Service postmark dated on or before the filing deadline.

(3) An LEA in a submission must demonstrate whether the State aid program comports with section 8009.

(4) Whenever a proceeding is initiated under this subpart, the Secretary may request from a State the data deemed necessary to make a determination. A failure on the part of a State to comply with that request within a reasonable period of time results in a summary determination by the Secretary that the State aid program of that State does not comport with the regulations in this subpart.

(5) Before making a determination under section 8009, the Secretary affords the State, and all LEAs in the State, an opportunity to present their views as follows:

(i) Upon receipt of a timely request for a predetermination hearing, the Secretary notifies all LEAs and the State of the time and place of the predetermination hearing.

(ii) Predetermination hearings are informal and any LEA and the State may participate whether or not they requested the predetermination hearing.

(iii) At the conclusion of the predetermination hearing, the Secretary holds the record open for 15 days for the submission of post-hearing comments. The Secretary may extend the period for post-hearing comments for good cause for up to an additional 15 days.

(iv) Instead of a predetermination hearing, if the party or parties requesting the predetermination hearing agree, they may present their views to the Secretary exclusively in writing. In such a case, the Secretary notifies all LEAs and the State that this alternative procedure is being followed and that they have up to 30 days from the date of the notice in which to submit their views in writing. Any LEA or the State may submit its views in writing within the specified time, regardless of whether it requested the opportunity to present its views.
