
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 222 - IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
##### Subpart L - Impact Aid Discretionary Construction Grant Program Under Section 8007(b) of the Act
###### How Grants Are Made
####### § 222.189 What funding priority does the Secretary give to applications?

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary gives funding priority to applications in the following order:

(1) First priority is given to applications described under § 222.177 and, among those applicants for emergency grants, priority is given to applications based on a rank order of the application quality factors referenced in § 222.190, including the severity of the emergency.

(2) After all eligible first-priority applications are funded, second priority is given to applications described under §§ 222.178 and 222.179 and, among those applicants for emergency grants, priority is given to applications based on a rank order of the application quality factors referenced in § 222.190, including the severity of the emergency.

(3) Third priority is given to applications described under § 222.180 and, among those applicants for modernization grants, priority is given to applications based on a rank order of the application quality factors referenced in § 222.190, including the severity of the need for modernization.

(4) Fourth priority is given to applications described under §§ 222.181 and 222.182 and, among those applicants for modernization grants, priority is given to applications based on a rank order of the application quality factors referenced in § 222.190, including the severity of the need for modernization.

(b)(1) The Secretary makes awards in each priority described above until the Secretary is unable to make an approvable award in that priority.

(2) If the Secretary is unable to fund a full project or a viable portion of a project, the Secretary may continue to fund down the list of high-ranking applicants within a priority.

(3) The Secretary applies any remaining funds to awards in the next priority.

(4) If an applicant does not receive an emergency or modernization grant in a fiscal year, the Secretary will, subject to the availability of funds and to the priority and award criteria, consider that application in the following year along with the next fiscal year's pool of applications.
