
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 225 - CREDIT ENHANCEMENT FOR CHARTER SCHOOL FACILITIES PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 225.3 What regulations apply to the Credit Enhancement for Charter School Facilities Program?

The following regulations apply to the Credit Enhancement for Charter School Facilities Program:

(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs).

(3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations).

(4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).

(5) [Reserved]

(6) 34 CFR part 81 (General Educational Provisions Act-Enforcement).

(7) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).

(8) 34 CFR part 84 (Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)).

(9) [Reserved]

(10) 34 CFR part 97 (Protection of Human Subjects).

(11) 34 CFR part 98 (Student Rights in Research, Experimental Programs, and Testing).

(12) 34 CFR part 99 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy).

(b) The regulations in this part 225.

(c) The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted in 2 CFR part 3474 and OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) in 2 CFR part 180, as adopted in 2 CFR part 3485.
