
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter II - Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 280 - MAGNET SCHOOLS ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
###### ยง 280.40 What costs are allowable?

An LEA or consortium of LEAs may use funds received under this part for the following activities:

(a) Planning and promotional activities directly related to the development, expansion, continuation, or enhancement of academic programs and services offered at magnet schools, though planning activities are subject to the restrictions in ยง 280.41(a) and do not include activities described under paragraph (f) of this section.

(b) The acquisition of books, materials, and equipment (including computers) and the maintenance and operation of materials, equipment and computers. Any books, materials or equipment purchased with grant funds must be:

(1) Necessary for the conduct of programs in magnet schools; and

(2) Directly related to improving student academic achievement based on the State's challenging academic content standards and student academic achievement standards or directly related to improving student reading skills or knowledge of mathematics, science, history, geography, English, foreign languages, art, or music, or to improving vocational, technological, or professional skills.

(c) The payment or subsidization of the compensation of elementary and secondary school teachers:

(1) Who are highly qualified;

(2) Who are necessary to conduct programs in magnet schools; and

(3) Whose employment is directly related to improving student academic achievement based on the State's challenging academic content standards and student academic achievement standards or directly related to improving student reading skills or knowledge of mathematics, science, history, geography, English, foreign languages, art, or music, or to improving vocational, technological, or professional skills.

(d) The payment or subsidization of the compensation of instructional staff, where applicable, who satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.

(e) With respect to a magnet school program offered to less than the entire school population, for instructional activities that-

(1) Are designed to make available the special curriculum of the magnet school program to students enrolled in the school, but not in the magnet school program; and

(2) Further the purposes of the program.

(f) Activities, which may include professional development, that will build the recipient's capacity to operate magnet school programs once the grant period has ended.

(g) Activities to enable the LEA or consortium of LEAs to have more flexibility in the administration of a magnet school program in order to serve students attending a school who are not enrolled in a magnet school program.

(h) Activities to enable the LEA or consortium of LEAs to have flexibility in designing magnet schools for students in all grades.
