
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 21 - EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE
#### Subpart D - How Does One Apply for an Award?
##### § 21.31 Contents of application.

(a) In its application for an award of fees and other expenses, an applicant shall include the following:

(1) Information adequate to show that the applicant is a prevailing party in an adversary adjudication or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of an adversary adjudication.

(2) A statement that the adversary adjudication is covered by the Act according to § 21.10.

(3) An allegation that the position of the Department was not substantially justified, including a description of the specific position.

(4) Unless the applicant is a qualified tax-exempt organization or a qualified agricultural cooperative association, information adequate to show that the applicant qualifies under the requirements of §§ 21.20 and 21.21 regarding net worth. The information, if applicable, shall include a detailed exhibit of the net worth of the applicant-and its affiliates as described in § 21.21-as of the date the proceeding was initiated.

(5)(i) The total amount of fees and expenses sought in the award; and

(ii) An itemized statement of-

(A) Each expense; and

(B) Each fee, including the actual time expended for this fee and the rate at which the fee was computed.

(6) A written verification under oath or affirmation or under penalty of perjury from each attorney representing the applicant stating-

(i) The rate at which the fee submitted by the attorney was computed; and

(ii) The actual time expended for the fee.

(7) A written verification under oath, affirmation, or under penalty of perjury that the information contained in the application and any accompanying material is true and complete to the best of the applicant's information and belief.

(b) The adjudicative officer may require the applicant to submit additional information.
