
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 21 - EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE
#### Subpart F - How Are Awards Determined?
##### § 21.54 Review by the Secretary.

(a) The Secretary may decide to review-

(1) An initial decision made by an adjudicative officer in a proceeding not subject to CRRA review;

(2) An initial decision made by an adjudicative officer in a proceeding subject to CRRA review that was not appealed to the CRRA; or

(3) A final decision made by the CRRA under § 21.53.

(b)(1) The Secretary does not review a final decision made by an adjudicative officer of the General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals.

(2) The Secretary or a party to the proceedings may seek reconsideration of the final decision by an adjudicative officer of the General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals on the fee application in accordance with 48 CFR 6101.32.

(c) The Secretary decides to review a decision under § 21.54(a) either-

(1) Upon receipt of a written request for review by an applicant or Department's counsel; or

(2) Upon the Secretary's own motion.

(d) If the applicant or the Department's counsel seeks a review, the request must be submitted to the Secretary, in writing, within 30 days of-

(1) An initial decision in a proceeding not subject to CRRA review; or

(2) A final decision of the CRRA.

(e) The Secretary decides whether to accept or reject a request for review of an initial decision made by the adjudicative officer in a proceeding not subject to CRRA review or a final decision of the CRRA within 30 days after receipt of a request for review.

(f) The Secretary may decide on his own motion to review a decision made under § 21.54(a) within 60 days of the initial decision by the adjudicative officer or a final decision of the CRRA.

(g) If the Secretary decides to review the adjudicative officer's initial decision or the CRRA's final decision-

(1) The Secretary reviews the adjudicative officer's initial decision or the CRRA's final decision on the basis of the written record of the proceedings on the application. This includes, but is not restricted to-

(i) The written request for review;

(ii) The adjudicative officer's findings as described in § 21.51(b); and

(iii) If applicable, the final decision of the CRRA, if any; and

(2) The Secretary either-

(i) Issues a final decision; or

(ii) Remands the application to the adjudicative officer or the CRRA for further proceedings.

(h) If the Secretary issues a final decision, the Secretary's decision-

(1) Is in writing;

(2) States the reasons for the decision; and

(3) If the decision is adverse to the applicant, advises the applicant of its right to petition for judicial review under § 21.56.
