
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 30 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart C - What Provisions Apply to Administrative Offset?
##### General Offset Procedures
###### § 30.22 What notice does the debtor receive before the commencement of offset?

(a)(1) Except as provided in §§ 30.28 and 30.29, the Secretary provides a debtor with written notice of the Secretary's intent to offset before initiating the offset.

(2) The Secretary mails the notice to the debtor at the current address of the debtor, as determined by the Secretary from information regarding the debt maintained by the Department.

(b) The written notice informs the debtor regarding:

(1) The nature and amount of the debt;

(2) The Secretary's intent to collect the debt by offset;

(3) The debtor's opportunity to:

(i) Inspect and copy Department records pertaining to the debt;

(ii) Obtain a review within the Department of the existence or amount of the debt; and

(iii) Enter into a written agreement with the Secretary to repay the debt;

(4) The date by which the debtor must request an opportunity set forth under paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and

(5) The Secretary's decision, in appropriate cases, to switch the debtor from advance funding to a reimbursement payment system.

(c)(1) In determining whether a debtor has requested an opportunity set forth under paragraph (b)(3) of this section in a timely manner, the Secretary relies on:

(i) A legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark for the debtor's request; or

(ii) A legibly stamped U.S. Postal service mail receipt for debtor's request.

(2) The Secretary does not rely on either of the following as proof of mailing;

(i) A private metered postmark.

(ii) A mail receipt that is not dated by the U.S. Postal Service.

(d) If a debtor previously has been notified of the Secretary's intent to offset or offered an opportunity to take any of the actions set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in connection with the same debt, the Secretary may offset without providing the debtor with an additional notice of intent or opportunity to take any of those actions under these offset procedures.
