
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 30 - DEBT COLLECTION
#### Subpart C - What Provisions Apply to Administrative Offset?
##### General Offset Procedures
###### § 30.25 How may a debtor obtain an oral hearing?

(a) If a debtor wants the Secretary to conduct the review requested under § 30.24 as an oral hearing, the debtor must file a written request for an oral hearing together with the request for review filed under § 30.24(a).

(b) A request filed under paragraph (a) of this section must contain the following in addition to the information filed under § 30.24(b):

(1) An explanation of reason(s) why the debtor believes the Secretary cannot resolve the issues identified in the notice under § 30.22(b)(3)(ii) or § 30.33(b)(3)(ii) through a review of the documentary evidence.

(2) An identification of:

(i) The individuals that the debtor wishes to have testify at the oral hearing;

(ii) The specific issues identified in the notice regarding which each individual is prepared to testify; and

(iii) The reasons why each individual's testimony is necessary to resolve the issue.

(c) The Secretary grants a debtor's request for an oral hearing regarding the issues identified in the notice under § 30.22(b)(3)(ii) or § 30.33(b)(3)(ii) only if:

(1)(i) A statute authorizes or requires the Secretary to consider waiver of the indebtedness involved;

(ii) The debtor files a request for waiver of the indebtedness with the request for review filed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and

(iii) The question of waiver of the indebtedness turns on an issue of credibility or veracity; or

(2) The Secretary determines that the issues identified in the notice under § 30.22(b)(3)(ii) or § 30.33(b)(3)(ii) cannot be resolved by review of only the documentary evidence.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary may deny oral hearings for a class of similar debts if:

(1) The issues identified in the notice under § 30.22(b)(3)(ii) or 30.33(b)(3)(ii) for which an oral hearing was requested, or the issue of waiver, rarely involve issues of credibility or veracity; and

(2) The Secretary determines that review of the documentary evidence is ordinarily an adequate means to correct mistakes.

(e) The Secretary may decline to consider any reasons that the debtor fails to provide in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
