
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 32 - SALARY OFFSET TO RECOVER OVERPAYMENTS OF PAY OR ALLOWANCES FROM DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION EMPLOYEES
#### § 32.6 Request for a pre-offset hearing.

(a) Except for an employee who has requested a waiver of collection of the debt under § 32.4(b), an employee who wishes a pre-offset hearing must request the hearing within 15 days of receipt of the written notice given under § 32.3. The Secretary waives the 15-day requirement if the employee shows that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice and lack of knowledge of the time limit.

(b) An employee who has requested a waiver under § 32.4(b) may request a hearing within 10 days of receipt of a determination by the Secretary denying a waiver.

(c) The request for a hearing must:

(1) Be in writing;

(2) State why the employee:

(i) Contests the existence or amount of the overpayment; or

(ii) Claims that the involuntary repayment schedule will cause extreme financial hardship;

(3) Include all documents on which the employee is relying, other than those provided by the Secretary under § 32.3; any document which is a statement of an individual must be in the form of an affidavit; and

(4) Be submitted to the designated hearing official with a copy to the Secretary.

(d) If the employee timely requests a pre-offset hearing or the timelines are waived under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary:

(1) Notifies the employee whether the employee may elect an oral hearing; and

(2) Provides the hearing official with a copy of all records on which the determination of the overpayment and any involuntary repayment schedule are based.

(e) An employee who has been given the opportunity to elect an oral hearing and who does elect an oral hearing must notify the hearing official and the Secretary of his or her election in writing within 7 days of receipt of the notice under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and must identify all proposed witnesses and all facts and evidence about which they will testify.

(f) Where an employee requests an oral hearing, the hearing official notifies the Secretary and the employee of the date, time, and location of the hearing. However:

(1) The employee subsequently may elect to have the hearing based only on the written submissions by notifying the hearing official and the Secretary at least 3 calendar days before the date of the oral hearing. The hearing official may waive the 3-day requirement for good cause when the employee notifies the hearing official before the date of the hearing; and

(2) The request for a hearing of an employee who fails to appear at the oral hearing must be dismissed and the Secretary's decision affirmed.
