
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 303 - EARLY INTERVENTION PROGRAM FOR INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart D - Child Find, Evaluations and Assessments, and Individualized Family Service Plans
###### Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP)
####### ยง 303.343 IFSP Team meeting and periodic review.
######## Initial and annual IFSP Team meeting.

(a)(1) Each initial meeting and each annual IFSP Team meeting to evaluate the IFSP must include the following participants:

(i) The parent or parents of the child.

(ii) Other family members, as requested by the parent, if feasible to do so.

(iii) An advocate or person outside of the family, if the parent requests that the person participate.

(iv) The service coordinator designated by the public agency to be responsible for implementing the IFSP.

(v) A person or persons directly involved in conducting the evaluations and assessments in ยง 303.321.

(vi) As appropriate, persons who will be providing early intervention services under this part to the child or family.

(2) If a person listed in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section is unable to attend a meeting, arrangements must be made for the person's involvement through other means, including one of the following:

(i) Participating in a telephone conference call.

(ii) Having a knowledgeable authorized representative attend the meeting.

(iii) Making pertinent records available at the meeting.
