
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 303 - EARLY INTERVENTION PROGRAM FOR INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart G - State Interagency Coordinating Council
###### ยง 303.601 Composition.

(a) The Council must be composed as follows:

(1)(i) At least 20 percent of the members must be parents, including minority parents, of infants or toddlers with disabilities or children with disabilities aged 12 years or younger, with knowledge of, or experience with, programs for infants and toddlers with disabilities.

(ii) At least one parent member must be a parent of an infant or toddler with a disability or a child with a disability aged six years or younger.

(2) At least 20 percent of the members must be public or private providers of early intervention services.

(3) At least one member must be from the State legislature.

(4) At least one member must be involved in personnel preparation.

(5) At least one member must-

(i) Be from each of the State agencies involved in the provision of, or payment for, early intervention services to infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families; and

(ii) Have sufficient authority to engage in policy planning and implementation on behalf of these agencies.

(6) At least one member must-

(i) Be from the SEA responsible for preschool services to children with disabilities; and

(ii) Have sufficient authority to engage in policy planning and implementation on behalf of the SEA.

(7) At least one member must be from the agency responsible for the State Medicaid and CHIP program.

(8) At least one member must be from a Head Start or Early Head Start agency or program in the State.

(9) At least one member must be from a State agency responsible for child care.

(10) At least one member must be from the agency responsible for the State regulation of private health insurance.

(11) At least one member must be a representative designated by the Office of the Coordination of Education of Homeless Children and Youth.

(12) At least one member must be a representative from the State child welfare agency responsible for foster care.

(13) At least one member must be from the State agency responsible for children's mental health.

(b) The Governor may appoint one member to represent more than one program or agency listed in paragraphs (a)(7) through (a)(13) of this section.

(c) The Council may include other members selected by the Governor, including a representative from the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) or, where there is no school operated or funded by the BIE in the State, from the Indian Health Service or the tribe or tribal council.

(d) No member of the Council may cast a vote on any matter that would provide direct financial benefit to that member or otherwise give the appearance of a conflict of interest under State law.
