
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 303 - EARLY INTERVENTION PROGRAM FOR INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart H - State Monitoring and Enforcement; Federal Monitoring and Enforcement; Reporting; and Allocation of Funds
###### Federal and State Monitoring and Enforcement
####### ยง 303.704 Enforcement.
######## Needs intervention.

(b)If the Secretary determines, for three or more consecutive years, that a State needs intervention under ยง 303.703(b)(1)(iii) in implementing the requirements of part C of the Act, the following apply:

(1) The Secretary may take any of the actions described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) The Secretary takes one or more of the following actions:

(i) Requires the State to prepare a corrective action plan or improvement plan if the Secretary determines that the State should be able to correct the problem within one year.

(ii) Requires the State to enter into a compliance agreement under section 457 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended (GEPA), 20 U.S.C. 1234f, if the Secretary has reason to believe that the State cannot correct the problem within one year.

(iii) Seeks to recover funds under section 452 of GEPA, 20 U.S.C. 1234a.

(iv) Withholds, in whole or in part, any further payments to the State under part C of the Act.

(v) Refers the matter for appropriate enforcement action, which may include referral to the Department of Justice.
