
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 303 - EARLY INTERVENTION PROGRAM FOR INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart H - State Monitoring and Enforcement; Federal Monitoring and Enforcement; Reporting; and Allocation of Funds
###### Allocation of Funds
####### ยง 303.731 Payments to Indians.
######## Reports.

(e)(1) To be eligible to receive a payment under paragraph (b) of this section, a tribe, tribal organization, or consortium must make a biennial report to the Secretary of the Interior of activities undertaken under this section, including the number of contracts and cooperative agreements entered into, the number of infants and toddlers contacted and receiving services for each year, and the estimated number of infants and toddlers needing services during the two years following the year in which the report is made. This report must include an assurance that the tribe, tribal organization, or consortium has provided the lead agency in the State child find information (including the names and dates of birth and parent contact information) for infants or toddlers with disabilities who are included in the report in order to meet the child find coordination and child count requirements in sections 618 and 643 of the Act.

(2) The Secretary of the Interior must provide a summary of this information (including confirmation that each tribe, tribal organization, or consortium has provided to the Secretary of the Interior the assurance required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section) on a biennial basis to the Secretary along with such other information as required of the Secretary of the Interior under part C of the Act. The Secretary may require additional information from the Secretary of the Interior.

(3) Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year the Secretary of the Interior must provide the Secretary with a report on the payments distributed under this section. The report must include-

(i) The name of each tribe, tribal organization, or combination of those entities that received a payment for the fiscal year;

(ii) The amount of each payment; and

(iii) The date of each payment.
