
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 304 - SERVICE OBLIGATIONS UNDER SPECIAL EDUCATION - PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT TO IMPROVE SERVICES AND RESULTS FOR CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES
##### Subpart C - Conditions That Must Be Met by Scholar
###### § 304.30 Requirements for scholar.
####### Repayment.

(j)If not fulfilling the requirements in this section, subject to the provisions in § 304.31 regarding an exception or deferral, repay any scholarship received, plus interest, in an amount proportional to the service obligation not completed as follows:

(1) The Secretary charges the scholar interest on the unpaid balance owed in accordance with the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3717.

(2)(i) Interest on the unpaid balance accrues from the date the scholar is determined to have entered repayment status under paragraph (4) of this section.

(ii) Any accrued interest is capitalized at the time the scholar's repayment schedule is established.

(iii) No interest is charged for the period of time during which repayment has been deferred under § 304.31.

(3) Under the authority of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended, the Secretary may impose reasonable collection costs.

(4) A scholar enters repayment status on the first day of the first calendar month after the earliest of the following dates, as applicable:

(i) The date the scholar informs the grantee or the Secretary that the scholar does not plan to fulfill the service obligation under the agreement.

(ii) Any date when the scholar's failure to begin or maintain employment makes it impossible for that individual to complete the service obligation within the number of years required in § 304.30(f).

(iii) Any date on which the scholar discontinues enrollment in the course of study under § 304.30(a).

(5) The scholar must make payments to the Secretary that cover principal, interest, and collection costs according to a schedule established by the Secretary.

(6) Any amount of the scholarship that has not been repaid pursuant to paragraphs (j)(1) through (j)(5) of this section will constitute a debt owed to the United States that may be collected by the Secretary in accordance with 34 CFR part 30.
