
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 33 - PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
#### ยง 33.16 Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.

(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.

(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. That motion must be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.

(c) The motion and affidavit must be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or the objections are deemed waived.

(d) The affidavit must state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of those facts. It must be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.

(e) Upon the filing of the motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall not proceed further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(f)(1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case must be reassigned promptly to another ALJ.

(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the Department head may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
