
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 361 - STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - State Plan and Other Requirements for Vocational Rehabilitation Services
###### Provision and Scope of Services
####### ยง 361.57 Review of determinations made by designated State unit personnel.
######## Mediation.

(d)(1) The State must establish and implement procedures, as required under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, to allow an applicant or recipient and the State unit to resolve disputes involving State unit determinations that affect the provision of vocational rehabilitation services through a mediation process that must be made available, at a minimum, whenever an applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the individual's representative requests an impartial due process hearing under this section.

(2) Mediation procedures established by the State unit under paragraph (d) of this section must ensure that-

(i) Participation in the mediation process is voluntary on the part of the applicant or recipient, as appropriate, and on the part of the State unit;

(ii) Use of the mediation process is not used to deny or delay the applicant's or recipient's right to pursue resolution of the dispute through an impartial hearing held within the time period specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section or any other rights provided under this part. At any point during the mediation process, either party or the mediator may elect to terminate the mediation. In the event mediation is terminated, either party may pursue resolution through an impartial hearing;

(iii) The mediation process is conducted by a qualified and impartial mediator, as defined in ยง 361.5(c)(43), who must be selected from a list of qualified and impartial mediators maintained by the State-

(A) On a random basis;

(B) By agreement between the director of the designated State unit and the applicant or recipient or, as appropriate, the recipient's representative; or

(C) In accordance with a procedure established in the State for assigning mediators, provided this procedure ensures the neutrality of the mediator assigned; and

(iv) Mediation sessions are scheduled and conducted in a timely manner and are held in a location and manner that is convenient to the parties to the dispute.

(3) Discussions that occur during the mediation process must be kept confidential and may not be used as evidence in any subsequent due process hearings or civil proceedings, and the parties to the mediation process may be required to sign a confidentiality pledge prior to the commencement of the process.

(4) An agreement reached by the parties to the dispute in the mediation process must be described in a written mediation agreement that is developed by the parties with the assistance of the qualified and impartial mediator and signed by both parties. Copies of the agreement must be sent to both parties.

(5) The costs of the mediation process must be paid by the State. The State is not required to pay for any costs related to the representation of an applicant or recipient authorized under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
