
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 361 - STATE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES PROGRAM
##### Subpart F - Description of the One-Stop Delivery System Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### § 361.800 How are one-stop centers and one-stop delivery systems certified for effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement?

(a) The State WDB, in consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs, must establish objective criteria and procedures for Local WDBs to use when certifying one-stop centers.

(1) The State WDB, in consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs, must review and update the criteria every 2 years as part of the review and modification of State Plans pursuant to § 361.135.

(2) The criteria must be consistent with the Governor's and State WDB's guidelines, guidance, and policies on infrastructure funding decisions, described in § 361.705. The criteria must evaluate the one-stop centers and one-stop delivery system for effectiveness, including customer satisfaction, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement.

(3) When the Local WDB is the one-stop operator as described in 20 CFR 679.410, the State WDB must certify the one-stop center.

(b) Evaluations of effectiveness must include how well the one-stop center integrates available services for participants and businesses, meets the workforce development needs of participants and the employment needs of local employers, operates in a cost-efficient manner, coordinates services among the one-stop partner programs, and provides access to partner program services to the maximum extent practicable, including providing services outside of regular business hours where there is a workforce need, as identified by the Local WDB. These evaluations must take into account feedback from one-stop customers. They must also include evaluations of how well the one-stop center ensures equal opportunity for individuals with disabilities to participate in or benefit from one-stop center services. These evaluations must include criteria evaluating how well the centers and delivery systems take actions to comply with the disability-related regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188, set forth at 29 CFR part 38. Such actions include, but are not limited to:

(1) Providing reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities;

(2) Making reasonable modifications to policies, practices, and procedures where necessary to avoid discrimination against persons with disabilities;

(3) Administering programs in the most integrated setting appropriate;

(4) Communicating with persons with disabilities as effectively as with others;

(5) Providing appropriate auxiliary aids and services, including assistive technology devices and services, where necessary to afford individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, the program or activity; and

(6) Providing for the physical accessibility of the one-stop center to individuals with disabilities.

(c) Evaluations of continuous improvement must include how well the one-stop center supports the achievement of the negotiated local levels of performance for the indicators of performance for the local area described in sec. 116(b)(2) of WIOA and part 361. Other continuous improvement factors may include a regular process for identifying and responding to technical assistance needs, a regular system of continuing professional staff development, and having systems in place to capture and respond to specific customer feedback.

(d) Local WDBs must assess at least once every 3 years the effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement of one-stop centers and the one-stop delivery systems using the criteria and procedures developed by the State WDB. The Local WDB may establish additional criteria, or set higher standards for service coordination, than those set by the State criteria. Local WDBs must review and update the criteria every 2 years as part of the Local Plan update process described in § 361.580. Local WDBs must certify one-stop centers in order to be eligible to use infrastructure funds in the State funding mechanism described in § 361.730.

(e) All one-stop centers must comply with applicable physical and programmatic accessibility requirements, as set forth in 29 CFR part 38, the implementing regulations of WIOA sec. 188.
