
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 367 - INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BLIND
##### Subpart F - What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award?
###### ยง 367.69 What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
####### Release to other programs or authorities.

(e)(1) Upon receiving the informed written consent of the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's legally authorized representative, the service provider may release personal information to another agency or organization, in accordance with a written agreement, for the latter's program purposes only to the extent that the information may be released to the involved individual and only to the extent that the other agency or organization demonstrates that the information requested is necessary for the proper administration of its program.

(2) Medical or psychological information may be released pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the other agency or organization assures the service provider that the information will be used only for the purpose for which it is being provided and will not be further released to the individual.

(3) The service provider shall release personal information if required by Federal laws or regulations.

(4) The service provider shall release personal information in response to investigations in connection with law enforcement, fraud, or abuse, unless expressly prohibited by Federal or State laws or regulations, and in response to judicial order.

(5) The service provider also may release personal information to protect the individual or others if the individual poses a threat to his or her safety or to the safety of others.
