
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 370.2 Who is eligible for an award?
####### et seq.

(ii) "Protection and advocacy system" means a protection and advocacy system established under subtitle C of title I of the DD Act (42 U.S.C. 15041).

(b) Notwithstanding the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, the Governor of each State shall designate a public or private agency to conduct the State's CAP under this part.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Governor shall designate an agency that is independent of any agency that provides treatment, services, or rehabilitation to individuals under the Act.

(d) The Governor may, in the initial designation, designate an agency that provides treatment, services, or rehabilitation to individuals with disabilities under the Act if, at any time before February 22, 1984, there was an agency in the State that both-

(1) Was a grantee under section 112 of the Act by serving as a client assistance agency and directly carrying out a CAP; and

(2) Was, at the same time, a grantee under any other provision of the Act.

(e) An agency designated by the Governor of a State to conduct the State's CAP or the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium under this part may not make a subaward to or enter into a contract with an agency that provides services under this Act either to carry out the CAP or to provide services under the CAP.

(f) A designated agency, including the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, that contracts to provide CAP services with another entity or individual remains responsible for-

(1) The conduct of a CAP that meets all of the requirements of this part;

(2) Ensuring that the entity or individual expends CAP funds in accordance with-

(i) The regulations in this part; and

(ii) The regulations at 2 CFR part 200 applicable to the designated agency identified in paragraph (b) or the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, as described in paragraph (a) of this section; and

(3) The direct day-to-day supervision of the CAP services being carried out by the contractor. This day-to-day supervision must include the direct supervision of the individuals who are employed or used by the contractor to provide CAP services.
