
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 370.5 What regulations apply?

The following regulations apply to the expenditure of funds and the administration of the program under this part:

(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:

(1) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs) for purposes of an award made under ยง 370.30(d)(1) when the CAP appropriation equals or exceeds $14,000,000.

(2) 34 CFR part 76 (State-Administered Programs) applies to the State and, if the designated agency is a State or local government agency, to the designated agency, except for-

(i) Section 76.103;

(ii) Sections 76.125 through 76.137;

(iii) Sections 76.300 through 76.401;

(iv) Section 76.708;

(v) Section 76.734; and

(vi) Section 76.740.

(3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions That Apply to Department Regulations).

(4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).

(5) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act-Enforcement) applies to both the State and the designated agency, whether or not the designated agency is the actual recipient of the CAP grant. As the entity that eventually, if not directly, receives the CAP grant funds, the designated agency is considered a recipient for purposes of Part 81.

(6) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).

(b) Other regulations as follows:

(1) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485.

(2) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.

(c) The regulations in this part 370.
