
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - What Requirements Apply to Redesignation?
###### § 370.10 When do the requirements for redesignation apply?

(a) The Governor shall redesignate the designated agency for carrying out the CAP to an agency that is independent of any agency that provides treatment, services, or rehabilitation to individuals under the Act if, after August 7, 1998-

(1) The designated State agency undergoes any change in the organizational structure of the agency that results in one or more new State agencies or departments, or results in the merger with one or more other State agencies or departments, and

(2) The designated State agency contains an office or unit conducting the CAP.

(3) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the designated State agency has the meaning given to that term at 34 CFR 361.5(c)(12) and described at 34 CFR 361.13.

(b) The Governor may not redesignate the agency designated pursuant to section 112(c) of the Act and § 370.2(b) without good cause and without complying with the requirements of §§ 370.10 through 370.17.

(c) For purposes of §§ 370.10 through 370.17, a "redesignation of" or "to redesignate" a designated agency means any change in or transfer of the designation of an agency previously designated by the Governor to conduct the State's CAP to a new or different agency, unit, or organization, including-

(1) A decision by a designated agency to cancel its existing contract with another entity with which it has previously contracted to carry out and operate all or part of its responsibilities under the CAP (including providing advisory, assistance, or advocacy services to eligible clients and client-applicants); or

(2) A decision by a designated agency not to renew its existing contract with another entity with which it has previously contracted. Therefore, an agency that is carrying out a State's CAP under a contract with a designated agency is considered a designated agency for purposes of §§ 370.10 through 370.17.

(d) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a designated agency that does not renew a contract for CAP services because it is following State procurement laws that require contracts to be awarded through a competitive bidding process is presumed to have good cause for not renewing an existing contract. However, this presumption may be rebutted.

(e) If State procurement laws require a designated agency to award a contract through a competitive bidding process, the designated agency must hold public hearings on the request for proposal before awarding the new contract.
