
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - What Requirements Apply to Redesignation?
###### § 370.14 How does a designated agency appeal a written decision to redesignate?

(a) A designated agency may appeal to the Secretary a Governor's written decision to redesignate only if the designated agency submitted to the Governor a timely written response to the Governor's notice of proposed redesignation in accordance with § 370.12.

(b) To appeal to the Secretary a Governor's written decision to redesignate, a designated agency shall file a formal written appeal with the Secretary within 15 days after the designated agency's receipt of the Governor's written decision to redesignate. The date of filing of the designated agency's written appeal with the Secretary will be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of 34 CFR 81.12.

(c) If the designated agency files a written appeal with the Secretary, the designated agency shall send a separate copy of this appeal to the Governor by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provides a record that the Governor received a copy of the designated agency's appeal to the Secretary.

(d) The designated agency's written appeal to the Secretary must state why the Governor has not met the burden of showing that good cause for the redesignation exists or has not met the procedural requirements under §§ 370.11 and 370.13.

(e) The designated agency's written appeal must be accompanied by the designated agency's written response to the Governor's notice of proposed redesignation and may be accompanied by any other written submissions or documentation the designated agency wishes the Secretary to consider.

(f) As part of its submissions under this section, the designated agency may request an informal meeting with the Secretary at which representatives of both parties will have an opportunity to present their views on the issues raised in the appeal.
