
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - What Requirements Apply to Redesignation?
###### § 370.16 How does the Secretary review an appeal of a redesignation?

(a) If either party requests a meeting under § 370.14(f) or § 370.15(b), the meeting is to be held within 30 days of the submissions by the Governor under § 370.15, unless both parties agree to waive this requirement. The Secretary promptly notifies the parties of the date and place of the meeting.

(b) Within 30 days of the informal meeting permitted under paragraph (a) of this section or, if neither party has requested an informal meeting, within 60 days of the submissions required from the Governor under § 370.15, the Secretary issues to the parties a final written decision on whether the redesignation was for good cause.

(c) The Secretary reviews a Governor's decision based on the record submitted under §§ 370.14 and 370.15 and any other relevant submissions of other interested parties. The Secretary may affirm or, if the Secretary finds that the redesignation is not for good cause, remand for further findings or reverse a Governor's redesignation.

(d) The Secretary sends copies of the decision to the parties by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provide a record of receipt by both parties.
