
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - How Does the Secretary Allocate and Reallocate Funds to a State?
###### ยง 370.30 How does the Secretary allocate funds?

(a) After reserving funds required under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the Secretary shall allot the remainder of the sums appropriated for each fiscal year under this section among the States on the basis of relative population of each State, except that no such entity shall receive less than $50,000.

(b) The Secretary allocates $30,000 each, unless the provisions of section 112(e)(1)(D) of the Act are applicable, to American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands.

(c) The Secretary shall reserve funds, from the amount appropriated to carry out this part, to make a grant to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium to provide services in accordance with this part. The amount of the grant to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium shall be the same amount as is provided to a territory under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d)(1) For any fiscal year for which the amount appropriated equals or exceeds $14,000,000, the Secretary may reserve not less than 1.8 percent and not more than 2.2 percent of such amount to provide a grant for training and technical assistance for the programs established under this part.

(2) All training and technical assistance shall be coordinated with activities provided under 34 CFR 381.22.

(3) The Secretary shall make a grant pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section to an entity that has experience in or knowledge related to the provision of services authorized under this part.

(4) An entity receiving a grant under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall provide training and technical assistance to the designated agencies or entities carrying out the CAP to assist them in improving the provision of services authorized under this part and the administration of the program.

(e)(1) Unless prohibited or otherwise provided by State or tribal law, regulation, or policy, the Secretary pays to the designated agency, from the State allotment under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the amount specified in the State's or the eligible protection and advocacy system's approved request. Because the designated agency, including the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, is the eventual, if not the direct, recipient of the CAP funds, 34 CFR part 81 and 2 CFR part 200 apply to the designated agency, whether or not the designated agency is the actual recipient of the CAP grant.

(2) Notwithstanding the grant made to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium under paragraph (c) of this section, the State remains the grantee for purposes of 34 CFR part 76 and 2 CFR part 200 because it is the State that submits an application for and receives the CAP grant. In addition, both the State and the designated agency are considered recipients for purposes of 34 CFR part 81.
