
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - What Post-Award Conditions Must Be Met by a Designated Agency?
###### ยง 370.40 What are allowable costs?

(a) The designated agency, including the eligible protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, shall apply the regulations at 2 CFR part 200.

(b) Consistent with the program activities listed in ยง 370.4, the cost of travel in connection with the provision to a client or client-applicant of assistance under this program is allowable, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200. The cost of travel includes the cost of travel for an attendant if the attendant must accompany the client or client-applicant.

(c)(1) The State and the designated agency are accountable, both jointly and severally, to the Secretary for the proper use of funds made available under this part. However, the Secretary may choose to recover funds under the procedures in 34 CFR part 81 from either the State or the designated agency, or both, depending on the circumstances of each case.

(2) For purposes of the grant made under this part to the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium, such entity will be solely accountable to the Secretary for the proper use of funds made available under this part. If the Secretary determines it necessary, the Secretary may recover funds from the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium pursuant to the procedures in 34 CFR part 81.
