
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 370 - CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - What Post-Award Conditions Must Be Met by a Designated Agency?
###### ยง 370.49 What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?

(a) All personal information about individuals served by any designated agency under this part, including lists of names, addresses, photographs, and records of evaluation, must be held strictly confidential.

(b) The designated agency's use of information and records concerning individuals must be limited only to purposes directly connected with the CAP, including program evaluation activities. Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, this information may not be disclosed, directly or indirectly, other than in the administration of the CAP, unless the consent of the individual to whom the information applies, or his or her parent, legal guardian, or other legally authorized representative or advocate (including the individual's advocate from the designated agency), has been obtained in writing. A designated agency may not produce any report, evaluation, or study that reveals any personally identifying information without the written consent of the individual or his or her representative.

(c) Except as limited in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the Secretary or other Federal or State officials responsible for enforcing legal requirements are to have complete access to all-

(1) Records of the designated agency that receives funds under this program; and

(2) All individual case records of clients served under this part without the consent of the client.

(d) For purposes of conducting any periodic audit, preparing or producing any report, or conducting any evaluation of the performance of the CAP established or assisted under this part, the Secretary does not require the designated agency to disclose the identity of, or any other personally identifiable information related to, any individual requesting assistance under the CAP.
