
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 371 - AMERICAN INDIAN VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 371.6 What definitions apply to this program?
####### Vocational Rehabilitation Services for Individuals

means any services described in an individualized plan for employment necessary to assist an individual with a disability in preparing for, securing, retaining, advancing in or regaining an employment outcome that is consistent with the unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, capabilities, interests, and informed choice of the individual, including, but not limited to-

(i) An assessment for determining eligibility, priority for services, and vocational rehabilitation needs by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology.

(ii) Vocational rehabilitation counseling and guidance, including information and support services to assist an individual in exercising informed choice.

(iii) Referral and other services necessary to assist applicants and eligible individuals to secure needed services from other agencies and to advise those individuals about client assistance programs established under 34 CFR part 370.

(iv) Physical and mental restoration services, to the extent that financial support is not readily available from a source other than the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit (such as through health insurance or a comparable service or benefit).

(v) Vocational and other training services, including personal and vocational adjustment training, advanced training (particularly advanced training in a field of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (including computer science), medicine, law or business); books, tools, and other training materials, except that no training or training services in an institution of higher education (universities, colleges, community or junior colleges, vocational schools, technical institutes, or hospital schools of nursing or any other postsecondary education institution) may be paid for with funds under this part unless maximum efforts have been made by the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit and the individual to secure grant assistance in whole or in part from other sources to pay for that training.

(vi) Maintenance.

(vii) Transportation in connection with the provision of any vocational rehabilitation service.

(viii) Vocational rehabilitation services to family members of an applicant or eligible individual if necessary to enable the applicant or eligible individual to achieve an employment outcome.

(ix) Interpreter services, including sign language and oral interpreter services, for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing and tactile interpreting services for individuals who are deaf-blind provided by qualified personnel.

(x) Reader services, rehabilitation teaching services, and orientation and mobility services for individuals who are blind.

(xi) Job-related services, including job search and placement assistance, job retention services, follow-up services, and follow-along services.

(xii) Supported employment services.

(xiii) Personal assistance services.

(xiv) Post-employment services.

(xv) Occupational licenses, tools, equipment, initial stocks, and supplies.

(xvi) Rehabilitation technology, including vehicular modification, telecommunications, sensory, and other technological aids and devices.

(xvii) Transition services for students and youth with disabilities that facilitate the transition from school to postsecondary life, such as achievement of an employment outcome in competitive integrated employment.

(xviii) Technical assistance and other consultation services to conduct market analyses, develop business plans, and otherwise provide resources to eligible individuals who are pursuing self-employment or telecommuting or establishing a small business operation as an employment outcome.

(xix) Customized employment.

(x) Other goods and services determined necessary for the individual with a disability to achieve an employment outcome.
