
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 371 - AMERICAN INDIAN VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES
##### Subpart C - How Does One Apply for a Grant?
###### ยง 371.21 What are the special application requirements related to the projects funded under this part?

Each applicant under this program must provide evidence that-

(a) Effort will be made to provide a broad scope of vocational rehabilitation services in a manner and at a level of quality at least comparable to those services provided by the designated State unit.

(b) All decisions affecting eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services, the nature and scope of available vocational rehabilitation services and the provision of such services will be made by a representative of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program funded through this grant and such decisions will not be delegated to another agency or individual.

(c) Priority in the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services will be given to those American Indians with disabilities who are the most significantly disabled.

(d) An order of selection of individuals with disabilities to be served under the program will be specified if services cannot be provided to all eligible American Indians with disabilities who apply.

(e) All vocational rehabilitation services will be provided according to an individualized plan for employment which has been developed jointly by the representative of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program and each American Indian with disabilities being served.

(f) American Indians with disabilities living on or near Federal or State reservations where tribal vocational rehabilitation service programs are being carried out under this part will have an opportunity to participate in matters of general policy development and implementation affecting vocational rehabilitation service delivery by the tribal vocational rehabilitation program.

(g) Cooperative working arrangements will be developed with the DSU, or DSUs, as appropriate, which are providing vocational rehabilitation services to other individuals with disabilities who reside in the State or States being served.

(h) Any comparable services and benefits available to American Indians with disabilities under any other program, which might meet in whole or in part the cost of any vocational rehabilitation service, will be fully considered in the provision of vocational rehabilitation services.

(i) Any American Indian with disabilities who is an applicant or recipient of services, and who is dissatisfied with a determination made by a representative of the tribal vocational rehabilitation program and files a request for a review, will be afforded a review under procedures developed by the grantee comparable to those under the provisions of section 102(c)(1)-(5) and (7) of the Act.

(j) The tribal vocational rehabilitation program funded under this part must assure that any facility used in connection with the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services meets facility and program accessibility requirements consistent with the requirements, as applicable, of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 504 of the Act, and the regulations implementing these laws.

(k) The tribal vocational rehabilitation program funded under this part must ensure that providers of vocational rehabilitation services are able to communicate in the native language of, or by using an appropriate mode of communication with, applicants and eligible individuals who have limited English proficiency, unless it is clearly not feasible to do so.
