
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 371 - AMERICAN INDIAN VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES
##### Subpart E - What Conditions Apply to a Grantee Under this Program?
###### ยง 371.44 What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
####### Release to applicants and eligible individuals.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, if requested in writing by an applicant or eligible individual, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must make all requested information in that individual's record of services accessible to and must release the information to the individual or the individual's representative in a timely manner.

(2) Medical, psychological, or other information that the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit determines may be harmful to the individual may not be released directly to the individual, but must be provided to the individual through a third party chosen by the individual, which may include, among others, an advocate, a family member, or a qualified medical or mental health professional, unless a representative has been appointed by a court to represent the individual, in which case the information must be released to the court-appointed representative.

(3) If personal information has been obtained from another agency or organization, it may be released only by, or under the conditions established by, the other agency or organization.

(4) An applicant or eligible individual who believes that information in the individual's record of services is inaccurate or misleading may request that the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit amend the information. If the information is not amended, the request for an amendment must be documented in the record of services.
