
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 371 - AMERICAN INDIAN VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES
##### Subpart E - What Conditions Apply to a Grantee Under this Program?
###### ยง 371.44 What are the special requirements pertaining to the protection, use, and release of personal information?
####### Release to other programs or authorities.

(e)(1) Upon receiving the informed written consent of the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's representative, the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit may release personal information to another agency or organization, in accordance with a written agreement, for its program purposes only to the extent that the information may be released to the involved individual or the individual's representative and only to the extent that the other agency or organization demonstrates that the information requested is necessary for its program.

(2) Medical or psychological information that the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit determines may be harmful to the individual may be released if the other agency or organization assures the Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit that the information will be used only for the purpose for which it is being provided and will not be further released to the individual.

(3) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must release personal information if required by Federal law or regulations.

(4) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit must release personal information in response to investigations in connection with law enforcement, fraud, or abuse, unless expressly prohibited by Federal or State laws or regulations, and in response to an order issued by a judge, magistrate, or other authorized judicial officer.

(5) The Tribal Vocational Rehabilitation unit also may release personal information in order to protect the individual or others if the individual poses a threat to his or her safety or to the safety of others.
