
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 381 - PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
##### Subpart C - How Does the Secretary Make an Award?
###### ยง 381.22 How does the Secretary allocate funds under this program?

(a) In any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for this program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000-

(1) The Secretary sets aside not less than 1.8 percent but not more than 2.2 percent of the amount appropriated to provide a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for training and technical assistance to eligible systems carrying out activities under this part.

(2) After the reservation required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary makes allotments from the remainder of the amount appropriated in accordance with section 509(c)(2)-(d) of the Act.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for this program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000, the Secretary pays directly to an eligible system that submits an application that meets the requirements of ยง 381.10 the amount of the allotment to the State pursuant to section 509 of the Act, unless the State provides otherwise.

(c) For any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated to carry out this program equals or exceeds $10,500,000, the Secretary shall reserve a portion, and use the portion to make a grant for the eligible system serving the American Indian Consortium. The Secretary shall make the grant in an amount of not less than $50,000 for the fiscal year.

(d) Reallotment:

(1) For any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated to carry out this program equals or exceeds $5,500,000 and if the Secretary determines that any amount of an allotment to an eligible system within a State will not be expended by such system in carrying out the provisions of this part, the Secretary shall make such amount available to one or more of the eligible systems that the Secretary determines will be able to use additional amounts during such year for carrying out this part.

(2) Any reallotment amount made available to an eligible system for any fiscal year shall, for the purposes of this section, be regarded as an increase in the eligible system's allotment under this part for that fiscal year.
