
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 381 - PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
##### Subpart D - What Conditions Must Be Met After an Award?
###### ยง 381.33 What are the requirements related to the use of funds provided under this part?
####### e.g.,

(b) In any State in which an eligible system is located within a State agency, that State or State agency may not use more than five percent of any allotment for the costs of administration of the eligible system supported under this part. For purposes of this paragraph, "costs of administration" include, but are not limited to, administrative salaries (including salaries for clerical and support staff), supplies, depreciation, the cost of operating and maintaining facilities, equipment, and grounds (rental of office space or equipment, telephone, postage, maintenance agreements), and other similar types of costs that may be incurred by the State or State agency to administer the eligible system.

(c) Funds paid to an eligible system within a State for a fiscal year, including reallotment funds, to carry out this program that are not expended or obligated prior to the end of that fiscal year remain available to the eligible system within a State for obligation during the succeeding fiscal year in accordance with sections 19 and 509(g) of the Act.

(d) For determining when an eligible system makes an obligation for various kinds of property or services, 34 CFR 75.707 and 76.707, as appropriate, apply to this program. If the appropriation for the PAIR program is less than $5,500,000, ยง 75.707 applies. If the appropriation for the PAIR program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000, ยง 76.707 applies. An eligible system is considered a State for purposes of ยง 76.707.

(e) Program income:
