
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 385 - REHABILITATION TRAINING
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 385.3 What regulations apply to these programs?

The following regulations apply to the Rehabilitation Training program:

(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:

(1) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs).

(2) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions That Apply to Department Regulations).

(3) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).

(4) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act-Enforcement).

(5) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).

(6) 34 CFR part 84 (Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).

(7) 34 CFR part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses).

(8) 34 CFR part 97 (Protection of Human Subjects).

(9) 34 CFR part 98 (Student Rights in Research, Experimental Programs, and Testing.

(10) 34 CFR part 99 (Family Educational Rights and Privacy).

(b) The regulations in this part 385.

(c) [Reserved]

(d)(1) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485; and

(2) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards) as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
