
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter III - Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education
#### PART 386 - REHABILITATION TRAINING: REHABILITATION LONG-TERM TRAINING
##### Subpart E - What Conditions Must Be Met by a Scholar?
###### ยง 386.42 What must a scholar do to obtain an exception or a deferral to performance or repayment under a scholarship agreement?
####### Documentation.

(b)Sufficient documentation must be provided to substantiate the grounds for all deferrals or exceptions, including the following, as appropriate.

(1) Documentation necessary to substantiate an exception under ยง 386.41(a)(1) or a deferral under ยง 386.41(b)(5) must include a letter from a qualified physician or other medical professional, on official stationery, attesting how the disability affects the scholar in completing the course of study or performing the work obligation. The documentation must be less than three months old and include the scholar's diagnosis and prognosis and ability to complete the course of study or work with accommodations.

(2) Documentation to substantiate an exception under ยง 386.41(a)(2) must include a death certificate or other evidence conclusive under State law.

(3) Documentation necessary to substantiate a deferral or exception under 386.41(c) based upon the disability of a spouse, partner, or child must meet the criteria, as relevant, in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
