
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 34 - ADMINISTRATIVE WAGE GARNISHMENT
#### ยง 34.13 Conduct of a hearing.

(a)(1) A hearing official conducts any hearing under this part.

(2) The hearing official may be any qualified employee of the Department whom the Department designates to conduct the hearing.

(b)(1) The hearing official conducts any hearing as an informal proceeding.

(2) A witness in an oral hearing must testify under oath or affirmation.

(3) The hearing official maintains a summary record of any hearing.

(c) Before the hearing official considers evidence we obtain that was not included in the debt records available for inspection when we sent notice of proposed garnishment, we notify you that additional evidence has become available, may be considered by the hearing official, and is available for inspection or copying.

(d) The hearing official considers any objection you raise and evidence you submit-

(1) In or with the request for a hearing;

(2) During an oral hearing;

(3) By the date that we consider, under ยง 34.9(e), that a request for an oral hearing has been withdrawn; or

(4) Within a period we set, ordinarily not to exceed seven business days, after-

(i) We provide you access to our records regarding the debt, if you requested access to records within 20 days after the date of the notice under ยง 34.4;

(ii) We notify you that we have obtained and intend to consider additional evidence;

(iii) You request an extension of time in order to submit specific relevant evidence that you identify to us in the request; or

(iv) We notify you that we deny your request for an oral hearing.
