
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 462 - MEASURING EDUCATIONAL GAIN IN THE NATIONAL REPORTING SYSTEM FOR ADULT EDUCATION
##### Subpart D - What Requirements Must States and Local Eligible Providers Follow When Measuring Educational Gain?
###### § 462.42 How are tests used to place students at an NRS educational functioning level?

(a) A local eligible provider must use the results of the pre-test described in § 462.41(b) to initially place students at the appropriate NRS educational functioning level.

(b) A local eligible provider must use the results of the post-test described in § 462.41(c)-

(1) To determine whether students have completed one or more educational functioning levels or are progressing within the same level; and

(2) To place students at the appropriate NRS educational functioning level.

(c)(1) States and local eligible providers are not required to use all of the skill areas described in the NRS educational functioning levels to place students.

(2) States and local eligible providers must test and report on the skill areas most relevant to the students' needs and to the programs' curriculum.

(d)(1) If a State's assessment policy requires a local eligible provider to test a student in multiple skill areas and the student will receive instruction in all of the skill areas, the local eligible provider must place the student in an educational functioning level that is equivalent to the student's lowest test score for any of the skill areas tested under § 462.41(b) and (c).

(2) If a State's assessment policy requires a local eligible provider to test a student in multiple skill areas, but the student will receive instruction in fewer than all of the skill areas, the local eligible provider must place the student in an educational functioning level that is equivalent to the student's lowest test score for any of the skill areas-

(i) Tested under § 462.41(b) and (c); and

(ii) In which the student will receive instruction.
