
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 34 - ADMINISTRATIVE WAGE GARNISHMENT
#### ยง 34.24 Claim of financial hardship by debtor subject to garnishment.

(a) You may object to a proposed garnishment on the ground that withholding the amount or at the rate stated in the notice of garnishment would cause financial hardship to you and your dependents. (See ยง 34.7)

(b) You may, at any time, object that the amount or the rate of withholding which our order specifies your employer must withhold causes financial hardship.

(c)(1) We consider an objection to an outstanding garnishment order and provide you an opportunity for a hearing on your objection only after the order has been outstanding for at least six months.

(2) We may provide a hearing in extraordinary circumstances earlier than six months if you show in your request for review that your financial circumstances have substantially changed after the notice of proposed garnishment because of an event such as injury, divorce, or catastrophic illness.

(d)(1) You bear the burden of proving a claim of financial hardship by a preponderance of the credible evidence.

(2) You must prove by credible documentation-

(i) The amount of the costs incurred by you, your spouse, and any dependents, for basic living expenses; and

(ii) The income available from any source to meet those expenses.

(e)(1) We consider your claim of financial hardship by comparing-

(i) The amounts that you prove are being incurred for basic living expenses; against

(ii) The amounts spent for basic living expenses by families of the same size and similar income to yours.

(2) We regard the standards published by the Internal Revenue Service under 26 U.S.C. 7122(c)(2) (the "National Standards") as establishing the average amounts spent for basic living expenses for families of the same size as, and with family incomes comparable to, your family.

(3) We accept as reasonable the amount that you prove you incur for a type of basic living expense to the extent that the amount does not exceed the amount spent for that expense by families of the same size and similar income according to the National Standards.

(4) If you claim for any basic living expense an amount that exceeds the amount in the National Standards, you must prove that the amount you claim is reasonable and necessary.
