
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart H - Unified and Combined State Plans Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### § 463.140 What are the general requirements for submitting a Combined State Plan?
####### et seq.

(10) Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901); and

(11) Reintegration of offenders programs authorized under sec. 212 of the Second Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532).

(e) A Combined State Plan must contain:

(1) For the core programs, the information required by sec. 102(b) of WIOA and §§ 463.105 through 463.125, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries;

(2) For the Combined State Plan partner programs and activities, except as described in paragraph (h) of this section, the information required by the law authorizing and governing that program to be submitted to the appropriate Secretary, any other applicable legal requirements, and any common planning requirements described in sec. 102(b) of WIOA, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries;

(3) A description of the methods used for joint planning and coordination among the core programs, and with the required one-stop partner programs and other programs and activities included in the State Plan; and

(4) An assurance that all of the entities responsible for planning or administering the programs described in the Combined State Plan have had a meaningful opportunity to review and comment on all portions of the plan.

(f) Each Combined State Plan partner program included in the Combined State Plan remains subject to the applicable program-specific requirements of the Federal law and regulations, and any other applicable legal or program requirements, governing the implementation and operation of that program.

(g) For purposes of §§ 463.140 through 463.145 the term "appropriate Secretary" means the head of the Federal agency who exercises either plan or application approval authority for the program or activity under the Federal law authorizing the program or activity or, if there are no planning or application requirements, who exercises administrative authority over the program or activity under that Federal law.
