
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart I - Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.150 What definitions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act performance accountability provisions?
####### Exit.

(c)As defined for the purpose of performance calculations, exit is the point after which a participant who has received services through any program meets the following criteria:

(1) For the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I, the AEFLA program authorized under WIOA title II, and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, exit date is the last date of service.

(i) The last day of service cannot be determined until at least 90 days have elapsed since the participant last received services; services do not include self-service, information-only services or activities, or follow-up services. This also requires that there are no plans to provide the participant with future services.

(ii) [Reserved].

(2)(i) For the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV (VR program):

(A) The participant's record of service is closed in accordance with ยง 463.56 because the participant has achieved an employment outcome; or

(B) The participant's service record is closed because the individual has not achieved an employment outcome or the individual has been determined ineligible after receiving services in accordance with ยง 463.43.

(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a participant will not be considered as meeting the definition of exit from the VR program if the participant's service record is closed because the participant has achieved a supported employment outcome in an integrated setting but not in competitive integrated employment.

(3)(i) A State may implement a common exit policy for all or some of the core programs in WIOA title I and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, and any additional required partner program(s) listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA that is under the authority of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL).

(ii) If a State chooses to implement a common exit policy, the policy must require that a participant is exited only when all of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are met for the WIOA title I core programs and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, as well as any additional required partner programs listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA under the authority of DOL to which the common exit policy applies in which the participant is enrolled.
