
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart I - Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.160 What information is required for State performance reports?

(a) The State performance report required by sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA must be submitted annually using a template the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate, and must provide, at a minimum, information on the actual performance levels achieved consistent with ยง 463.175 with respect to:

(1) The total number of participants served, and the total number of participants who exited each of the core programs identified in sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(ii) of WIOA, including disaggregated counts of those who participated in and exited a core program, by:

(i) Individuals with barriers to employment as defined in WIOA sec. 3(24); and

(ii) Co-enrollment in any of the programs in WIOA sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(ii).

(2) Information on the performance levels achieved for the primary indicators of performance for all of the core programs identified in ยง 463.155 including disaggregated levels for:

(i) Individuals with barriers to employment as defined in WIOA sec. 3(24);

(ii) Age;

(iii) Sex; and

(iv) Race and ethnicity.

(3) The total number of participants who received career services and the total number of participants who exited from career services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, and the total number of participants who received training services and the total number of participants who exited from training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;

(4) Information on the performance levels achieved for the primary indicators of performance consistent with ยง 463.155 for career services and training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;

(5) The percentage of participants in a program who attained unsubsidized employment related to the training received (often referred to as training-related employment) through WIOA title I, subtitle B programs;

(6) The amount of funds spent on career services and the amount of funds spent on training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;

(7) The average cost per participant for those participants who received career services and training services, respectively, during the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;

(8) The percentage of a State's annual allotment under WIOA sec. 132(b) that the State spent on administrative costs; and

(9) Information that facilitates comparisons of programs with programs in other States.

(10) For WIOA title I programs, a State performance narrative, which, for States in which a local area is implementing a pay-for-performance contracting strategy, at a minimum provides:

(i) A description of pay-for-performance contract strategies being used for programs;

(ii) The performance of service providers entering into contracts for such strategies, measured against the levels of performance specified in the contracts for such strategies; and

(iii) An evaluation of the design of the programs and performance strategies and, when available, the satisfaction of employers and participants who received services under such strategies.

(b) The disaggregation of data for the State performance report must be done in compliance with WIOA sec. 116(d)(6)(C).

(c) The State performance reports must include a mechanism of electronic access to the State's local area and eligible training provider (ETP) performance reports.

(d) States must comply with these requirements from sec. 116 of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education, which may include information on reportable individuals as determined by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
