
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart I - Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### § 463.170 How are State levels of performance for primary indicators established?

(a) A State must submit in the State Plan expected levels of performance on the primary indicators of performance for each core program as required by sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(iii) of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.

(1) The initial State Plan submitted under WIOA must contain expected levels of performance for the first 2 years of the State Plan.

(2) States must submit expected levels of performance for the third and fourth year of the State Plan before the third program year consistent with §§ 463.135 and 463.145.

(b) States must reach agreement on levels of performance with the Secretaries of Labor and Education for each indicator for each core program. These are the negotiated levels of performance. The negotiated levels must be based on the following factors:

(1) How the negotiated levels of performance compare with State levels of performance established for other States;

(2) The application of an objective statistical model established by the Secretaries of Labor and Education, subject to paragraph (d) of this section;

(3) How the negotiated levels promote continuous improvement in performance based on the primary indicators and ensure optimal return on investment of Federal funds; and

(4) The extent to which the negotiated levels assist the State in meeting the performance goals established by the Secretaries of Labor and Education for the core programs in accordance with the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, as amended.

(c) An objective statistical adjustment model will be developed and disseminated by the Secretaries of Labor and Education. The model will be based on:

(1) Differences among States in actual economic conditions, including but not limited to unemployment rates and job losses or gains in particular industries; and

(2) The characteristics of participants, including but not limited to:

(i) Indicators of poor work history;

(ii) Lack of work experience;

(iii) Lack of educational or occupational skills attainment;

(iv) Dislocation from high-wage and high-benefit employment;

(v) Low levels of literacy;

(vi) Low levels of English proficiency;

(vii) Disability status;

(viii) Homelessness;

(ix) Ex-offender status; and

(x) Welfare dependency.

(d) The objective statistical adjustment model developed under paragraph (c) of this section will be:

(1) Applied to the core programs' primary indicators upon availability of data which are necessary to populate the model and apply the model to the local core programs;

(2) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, used before the beginning of a program year in order to reach agreement on State negotiated levels for the upcoming program year; and

(3) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, used to revise negotiated levels at the end of a program year based on actual economic conditions and characteristics of participants served, consistent with sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(vii) of WIOA.

(e) The negotiated levels revised at the end of the program year, based on the statistical adjustment model, are the adjusted levels of performance.

(f) States must comply with these requirements from sec. 116 of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education.
