
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart I - Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.185 When are sanctions applied for a State's failure to submit an annual performance report?

(a) Sanctions will be applied when a State fails to submit the State annual performance report required under sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA. A State fails to report if the State either:

(1) Does not submit a State annual performance report by the date for timely submission set in performance reporting guidance; or

(2) Submits a State annual performance report by the date for timely submission, but the report is incomplete.

(b) Sanctions will not be applied if the reporting failure is due to exceptional circumstances outside of the State's control. Exceptional circumstances may include, but are not limited to:

(1) Natural disasters;

(2) Unexpected personnel transitions; and

(3) Unexpected technology related issues.

(c) In the event that a State may not be able to submit a complete and accurate performance report by the deadline for timely reporting:

(1) The State must notify the Secretary of Labor or Secretary of Education as soon as possible, but no later than 30 days prior to the established deadline for submission, of a potential impact on the State's ability to submit its State annual performance report in order to not be considered failing to report.

(2) In circumstances where unexpected events occur less than 30 days before the established deadline for submission of the State annual performance reports, the Secretaries of Labor and Education will review requests for extending the reporting deadline in accordance with the Departments of Labor and Education's procedures that will be established in guidance.
