
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart I - Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### § 463.205 What performance indicators apply to local areas and what information must be included in local area performance reports?

(a) Each local area in a State under WIOA title I is subject to the same primary indicators of performance for the core programs for WIOA title I under § 463.155(a)(1) and (c) that apply to the State.

(b) In addition to the indicators described in paragraph (a) of this section, under § 463.165, the Governor may apply additional indicators of performance to local areas in the State.

(c) States must annually make local area performance reports available to the public using a template that the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate in guidance, including by electronic means. The State must provide electronic access to the public local area performance report in its annual State performance report.

(d) The local area performance report must include:

(1) The actual results achieved under § 463.155 and the information required under § 463.160(a);

(2) The percentage of a local area's allotment under WIOA secs. 128(b) and 133(b) that the local area spent on administrative costs; and

(3) Other information that facilitates comparisons of programs with programs in other local areas (or planning regions if the local area is part of a planning region).

(e) The disaggregation of data for the local area performance report must be done in compliance with WIOA sec. 116(d)(6)(C).

(f) States must comply with any requirements from sec. 116(d)(3) of WIOA as explained in guidance, including the use of the performance reporting template, issued by DOL.
