
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart I - Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.220 Under what circumstances may a corrective action or sanction be applied to local areas for poor performance?

(a) If a local area fails to meet the adjusted levels of performance agreed to under ยง 463.210 for the primary indicators of performance in the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I in any program year, technical assistance must be provided by the Governor or, upon the Governor's request, by the Secretary of Labor.

(1) A State must establish the threshold for failure to meet adjusted levels of performance for a local area before coming to agreement on the negotiated levels of performance for the local area.

(i) A State must establish the adjusted level of performance for a local area, using the statistical adjustment model described in ยง 463.170(c).

(ii) At least 2 years of complete data on any indicator for any local core program are required in order to establish adjusted levels of performance for a local area.

(2) The technical assistance may include:

(i) Assistance in the development of a performance improvement plan;

(ii) The development of a modified local or regional plan; or

(iii) Other actions designed to assist the local area in improving performance.

(b) If a local area fails to meet the adjusted levels of performance agreed to under ยง 463.210 for the same primary indicators of performance for the same core program authorized under WIOA title I for a third consecutive program year, the Governor must take corrective actions. The corrective actions must include the development of a reorganization plan under which the Governor:

(1) Requires the appointment and certification of a new Local WDB, consistent with the criteria established under 20 CFR 679.350;

(2) Prohibits the use of eligible providers and one-stop partners that have been identified as achieving poor levels of performance; or

(3) Takes such other significant actions as the Governor determines are appropriate.
