
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart I - Performance Accountability Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.225 Under what circumstances may local areas appeal a reorganization plan?

(a) The Local WDB and chief elected official for a local area that is subject to a reorganization plan under WIOA sec. 116(g)(2)(A) may appeal to the Governor to rescind or revise the reorganization plan not later than 30 days after receiving notice of the reorganization plan. The Governor must make a final decision within 30 days after receipt of the appeal.

(b) The Local WDB and chief elected official may appeal the final decision of the Governor to the Secretary of Labor not later than 30 days after receiving the decision from the Governor. Any appeal of the Governor's final decision must be:

(1) Appealed jointly by the Local WDB and chief elected official to the Secretary of Labor under 20 CFR 683.650; and

(2) Must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the Governor.

(c) Upon receipt of the joint appeal from the Local WDB and chief elected official, the Secretary of Labor must make a final decision within 30 days. In making this determination the Secretary of Labor may consider any comments submitted by the Governor in response to the appeals.

(d) The decision by the Governor on the appeal becomes effective at the time it is issued and remains effective unless the Secretary of Labor rescinds or revises the reorganization plan under WIOA sec. 116(g)(2)(C).
