
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart J - Description of the One-Stop Delivery System Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.600 Who may operate one-stop centers?

(a) One-stop operators may be a single entity (public, private, or nonprofit) or a consortium of entities. If the consortium of entities is one of one-stop partners, it must include a minimum of three of the one-stop partners described in ยง 463.400.

(b) The one-stop operator may operate one or more one-stop centers. There may be more than one one-stop operator in a local area.

(c) The types of entities that may be a one-stop operator include:

(1) An institution of higher education;

(2) An Employment Service State agency established under the Wagner-Peyser Act;

(3) A community-based organization, nonprofit organization, or workforce intermediary;

(4) A private for-profit entity;

(5) A government agency;

(6) A Local WDB, with the approval of the chief elected official and the Governor; or

(7) Another interested organization or entity, which is capable of carrying out the duties of the one-stop operator. Examples may include a local chamber of commerce or other business organization, or a labor organization.

(d) Elementary schools and secondary schools are not eligible as one-stop operators, except that a nontraditional public secondary school such as a night school, adult school, or an area career and technical education school may be selected.

(e) The State and Local WDBs must ensure that, in carrying out WIOA programs and activities, one-stop operators:

(1) Disclose any potential conflicts of interest arising from the relationships of the operators with particular training service providers or other service providers (further discussed in 20 CFR 679.430);

(2) Do not establish practices that create disincentives to providing services to individuals with barriers to employment who may require longer-term career and training services; and

(3) Comply with Federal regulations and procurement policies relating to the calculation and use of profits, including those at 20 CFR 683.295, the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and other applicable regulations and policies.
