
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart J - Description of the One-Stop Delivery System Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.605 How is the one-stop operator selected?

(a) Consistent with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Local WDB must select the one-stop operator through a competitive process, as required by sec. 121(d)(2)(A) of WIOA, at least once every 4 years. A State may require, or a Local WDB may choose to implement, a competitive selection process more than once every 4 years.

(b) In instances in which a State is conducting the competitive process described in paragraph (a) of this section, the State must follow the same policies and procedures it uses for procurement with non-Federal funds.

(c) All other non-Federal entities, including subrecipients of a State (such as local areas), must use a competitive process based on local procurement policies and procedures and the principles of competitive procurement in the Uniform Guidance set out at 2 CFR 200.318 through 200.326. All references to "noncompetitive proposals" in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.320(f) will be read as "sole source procurement" for the purposes of implementing this section.

(d) Entities must prepare written documentation explaining the determination concerning the nature of the competitive process to be followed in selecting a one-stop operator.
