
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart J - Description of the One-Stop Delivery System Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.738 How are statewide caps on the contributions for one-stop infrastructure funding determined in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
####### Other one-stop partners.

(2)For required one-stop partners other than those specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (3), (5), and (6) of this section, the portion of funds required to be contributed must not exceed 1.5 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out that program in the State for a fiscal year. For purposes of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the cap on contributions is determined based on the funds made available by the State for postsecondary level programs and activities under sec. 132 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act and the amount of funds used by the State under sec. 112(a)(3) of the Perkins Act during the prior year to administer postsecondary level programs and activities, as applicable.

(3) Vocational Rehabilitation

(i) Within a State, for the entity or entities administering the programs described in WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(iv) and ยง 463.400, the allotment is based on the one State Federal fiscal year allotment, even in instances where that allotment is shared between two State agencies, and the cumulative portion of funds required to be contributed must not exceed-

(A) 0.75 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2016 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2017;

(B) 1.0 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2017 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2018;

(C) 1.25 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2018 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2019;

(D) 1.5 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2019 and following years for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2020 and subsequent years.

(ii) The limitations set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section for any given fiscal year must be based on the final VR allotment to the State in the applicable Federal fiscal year.
