
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter IV - Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education
#### PART 463 - ADULT EDUCATION AND FAMILY LITERACY ACT
##### Subpart J - Description of the One-Stop Delivery System Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
###### ยง 463.755 What are the required elements regarding infrastructure funding that must be included in the one-stop Memorandum of Understanding?

The MOU, fully described in ยง 463.500, must contain the following information whether the local areas use either the local one-stop or the State funding method:

(a) The period of time in which this infrastructure funding agreement is effective. This may be a different time period than the duration of the MOU.

(b) Identification of an infrastructure and shared services budget that will be periodically reconciled against actual costs incurred and adjusted accordingly to ensure that it reflects a cost allocation methodology that demonstrates how infrastructure costs are charged to each partner in proportion to its use of the one-stop center and relative benefit received, and that complies with 2 CFR part 200 (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).

(c) Identification of all one-stop partners, chief elected officials, and Local WDB participating in the infrastructure funding arrangement.

(d) Steps the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners used to reach consensus or an assurance that the local area followed the guidance for the State funding process.

(e) Description of the process to be used among partners to resolve issues during the MOU duration period when consensus cannot be reached.

(f) Description of the periodic modification and review process to ensure equitable benefit among one-stop partners.
