
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 5 - AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
#### Subpart C - Procedures for Requesting Access to Agency Records and Disclosure of Agency Records
##### ยง 5.21 Procedures for processing FOIA requests.
###### Extension of time period for processing a FOIA request.

(e)The Department may extend the time period for processing a FOIA request only in unusual circumstances, as described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section, in which case the Department notifies the requester of the extension in writing. For extensions of more than 10 additional working days, the Department must also notify the requester, in writing, of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services. A notice of extension affords the requester the opportunity either to modify its FOIA request so that it may be processed within the 20-day time limit, or to arrange with the Department an alternative time period within which the FOIA request will be processed. For the purposes of this section, unusual circumstances include:

(1) The need to search for and collect the requested agency records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request.

(2) The need to search for, collect, and review and process voluminous agency records responsive to the FOIA request.

(3) The need to consult with another agency or two or more agency components having a substantial interest in the determination on the FOIA request.
