
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 600 - INSTITUTIONAL ELIGIBILITY UNDER THE HIGHER EDUCATION ACT OF 1965, AS AMENDED
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Establishing Eligibility
###### ยง 600.21 Updating application information.
####### e.g.

(5) A decrease in the level of program offering (the institution drops its graduate programs).

(6) A person's ability to affect substantially the actions of the institution if that person did not previously have this ability. The Secretary considers a person to have this ability if the person-

(i) Holds alone or together with another member or members of his or her family, at least a 25 percent "ownership interest" in the institution as defined in ยง 600.31(b);

(ii) Represents or holds, either alone or together with other persons, under a voting trust, power of attorney, proxy, or similar agreement at least a 25 percent "ownership interest" in the institution, as defined in ยง 600.31(b); or

(iii) Is a general partner, the chief executive officer, or chief financial officer of the institution.

(7) The individual the institution designates under 34 CFR 668.16(b)(1) as its title IV, HEA Program administrator.

(8) The closure of a branch campus or additional location that the institution was required to report to the Secretary.

(9) The governance of a public institution.

(10) For a freestanding foreign graduate medical school, or a foreign institution that includes a foreign graduate medical school, the school adds a location that offers all or a portion of the school's clinical rotations that are not required, except for those that are included in the accreditation of a medical program accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) or the American Osteopathic Association (AOA), or that are not used regularly, but instead are chosen by individual students who take no more than two electives at the location for no more than a total of eight weeks.

(11) For any program that is required to provide training that prepares a student for gainful employment in a recognized occupation-

(i) Establishing the eligibility or reestablishing the eligibility of the program;

(ii) Discontinuing the program's eligibility;

(iii) Ceasing to provide the program for at least 12 consecutive months;

(iv) Losing program eligibility under ยง 600.40; or

(v) Changing the program's name, CIP code or

(12) Its addition of a second or subsequent direct assessment program.

(13) Its establishment of a written arrangement for an ineligible institution or organization to provide more than 25 percent of a program pursuant to 34 CFR 668.5(c).
