
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 606 - DEVELOPING HISPANIC-SERVING INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 606.10 What activities may and may not be carried out under a grant?
####### Development grants-allowable activities.

(b)Under a development grant, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a grantee shall carry out activities that implement its comprehensive development plan and hold promise for strengthening the institution. Activities that may be carried out include, but are not limited to-

(1) Purchase, rental, or lease of scientific or laboratory equipment for educational purposes, including instructional and research purposes.

(2) Construction, maintenance, renovation, and improvement in classrooms, libraries, laboratories, and other instructional facilities.

(3) Support of faculty exchanges, faculty development, curriculum development, academic instruction, and faculty fellowships to assist in attaining advanced degrees in the fellow's field of instruction.

(4) Purchase of library books, periodicals, and other educational materials, including telecommunications program material.

(5) Tutoring, counseling, and student service programs designed to improve academic success.

(6) Funds management, administrative management, and acquisition of equipment for use in strengthening funds management.

(7) Joint use of facilities, such as laboratories and libraries.

(8) Establishing or improving a development office to strengthen or improve contributions from alumni and the private sector.

(9) Establishing or improving an endowment fund, provided the grantee uses no more than 20 percent of its grant funds for this purpose and at least matches those grant funds with non-Federal funds.

(10) Creating or improving facilities for Internet or other distance learning academic instruction capabilities, including purchase or rental of telecommunications technology equipment or services.

(11) Establishing or enhancing a program of teacher education designed to qualify students to teach in public elementary or secondary schools.

(12) Establishing community outreach programs that will encourage elementary school and secondary school students to develop the academic skills and the interest to pursue postsecondary education.

(13) Expanding the number of Hispanic and other underrepresented graduate and professional students that can be served by the institution by expanding courses and institutional resources.

(14) Other activities that contribute to carrying out the purposes of this program.
