
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 607 - STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 607.8 What is a comprehensive development plan and what must it contain?

(a) A comprehensive development plan is an institution's strategy for achieving growth and self-sufficiency by strengthening its-

(1) Academic programs;

(2) Institutional management; and

(3) Fiscal stability.

(b) The comprehensive development plan must include the following:

(1) An analysis of the strengths, weaknesses, and significant problems of the institution's academic programs, institutional management, and fiscal stability.

(2) A delineation of the institution's goals for its academic programs, institutional management, and fiscal stability, based on the outcomes of the analysis described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Measurable objectives related to reaching each goal and timeframes for achieving the objectives.

(4) Methods and resources that will be used to institutionalize practices and improvements developed under the proposed project.

(5) For a grant under section 316 of the HEA to a tribal college or university, its five-year plan for improving its services to Indian students, increasing the rates at which Indian secondary school students enroll in higher education, and increasing overall postsecondary retention rates for Indian students.

(6) For a grant under section 317 of the HEA to an Alaska Native-serving institution or to a Native Hawaiian-serving institution, its five-year plan for improving its services to Alaska Native or Native Hawaiian students, respectively.
