
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 607 - STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 607.10 What activities may and may not be carried out under a grant?
####### Development grants-unallowable activities.

(c)A grantee may not carry out the following activities or pay the following costs under a development grant:

(1) Activities that are not included in the grantee's approved application.

(2) Activities that are inconsistent with any State plan for higher education that is applicable to the institution, including, but not limited to, a State plan for desegregation of higher education.

(3) Activities or services that constitute religious instruction, religious worship, or proselytization.

(4) Activities provided by a school or department of divinity. For the purpose of this provision, a "school or department of divinity" means an institution, or a department of an institution, whose program is solely to prepare students to become ministers of religion or to enter into some other religious vocation.

(5) Developing or improving non-degree or non-credit courses other than basic skills development courses.

(6) Developing or improving community-based or community services programs, unless the program provides academic-related experiences or academic credit toward a degree for degree students, or unless it is an outreach program that encourages Indian elementary school and secondary school students to develop the academic skills and the interest to pursue postsecondary education.

(7) Purchase of standard office equipment, such as furniture, file cabinets, bookcases, typewriters, or word processors.

(8) Payment of any portion of the salary of a president, vice president, or equivalent officer who has college-wide administrative authority and responsibility at an institution to fill a position under the grant such as project coordinator or activity director.

(9) Costs of organized fund-raising, including financial campaigns, endowment drives, solicitation of gifts and bequests, and similar expenses incurred solely to raise capital or obtain contributions.

(10) Costs of student recruitment such as advertisements, literature, and college fairs.

(11) Services to high school students, unless they are part of a program to encourage Indian students to develop the academic skills and the interest to pursue postsecondary education.

(12) Instruction in the institution's standard courses as indicated in the institution's catalog.

(13) Costs for health and fitness programs, transportation, and day care services.

(14) Student activities such as entertainment, cultural, or social enrichment programs, publications, social clubs, or associations.

(15) Activities that are operational in nature rather than developmental in nature.
