
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 609 - STRENGTHENING HISTORICALLY BLACK GRADUATE INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - What Conditions Must a Grantee Meet?
###### ยง 609.42 What are the audit and repayment requirements?

(a)(1) A grantee shall provide for the conduct of a compliance and financial audit of any funds it receives under this part by a qualified, independent organization or person in accordance with the Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions, 1981 revision, established by the Comptroller General of the United States. This publication is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office.

(2) The grantee shall have an audit conducted at least once every two years, covering the period since the previous audit, and the grantee shall submit the audit to the Secretary.

(3) If a grantee is audited under chapter 75 of title 31 of the United States Code, the Secretary considers that audit to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) An institution awarded a grant under this part must submit to the Department of Education Inspector General three copies of the audit required in paragraph (a) of this section within six months after completion of the audit.

(c) Any individual or firm conducting an audit described in this section shall give the Department of Education's Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review the results of the audit.

(d) A grantee shall repay to the Treasury of the United States any grant funds it received that it did not expend or use to carry out the allowable activities included in its approved application within ten years following the date of the initial grant it received under this part.
