
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 628 - ENDOWMENT CHALLENGE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 628.5 What regulations apply to the Endowment Challenge Grant Program?

(a) The following regulations apply to the Endowment Challenge Grant Program:

(1) The regulations in this part 628.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]

(b)(1) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:

(i)-(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) The regulations in 34 CFR 75.100 through 75.102, and 75.217.

(iv) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities).

(v) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).

(vi) 34 CFR part 84 (Governmentwide Requirements For Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance)).

(vii) 34 CFR part 86 (Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention).

(2) Except as specifically indicated in paragraph (b)(1) and (c) of this section, the Education Department General Administrative Regulations and the regulations in 2 CFR part 200 do not apply.

(c) The following regulations in title 2 of the CFR apply to the Endowment Challenge Grant Program:

(1) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485.

(2) 2 CFR 200.328 (Monitoring and reporting program performance), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.

(3) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F (Audit Requirements), as adopted by ED at 2 CFR part 3474.
