
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 642 - TRAINING PROGRAM FOR FEDERAL TRIO PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
###### § 642.20 How does the Secretary evaluate an application for a new award?

(a) The Secretary evaluates an application on the basis of the criteria in § 642.21.

(1) The Secretary awards up to 75 points for these criteria.

(2) The maximum possible score for each complete criterion is indicated in the parentheses next to the heading of that criterion.

(b) In addition, for an applicant who is conducting a Training program in the fiscal year immediately prior to the fiscal year for which the applicant is applying, the Secretary evaluates the applicant's prior experience (PE) of high quality service delivery, as provided in § 642.22, based on the applicant's performance during the first project year of that expiring Training program grant.

(c) The Secretary selects applications for funding within each specific absolute priority established for the competition in rank order on the basis of the score received by the application in the peer review process.

(d) Within each specific absolute priority, if there are insufficient funds to fund all applications at the next peer review score, the Secretary adds the PE points awarded under § 642.22 to the peer review score to determine an adjusted total score for those applications. The Secretary makes awards at the next peer review score to the applications that have the highest total adjusted score.

(e) In the event a tie score still exists, the Secretary will select for funding the applicant that has the greatest capacity to provide training to eligible participants in all regions of the Nation, consistent with § 642.23.
