
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 642 - TRAINING PROGRAM FOR FEDERAL TRIO PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C - How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
###### ยง 642.25 What is the review process for unsuccessful applicants?
####### Administrative or scoring error for applications that were reviewed.

(b)(1) An applicant that was not selected for funding during a competition may request that the Secretary conduct a second review of the application if-

(i) The applicant provides evidence demonstrating that the Department, an agent of the Department, or a peer reviewer made an administrative or scoring error in the review of its application; and

(ii) The final score assigned to the application is within the funding band described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) An administrative error relates to either the PE points or the scores assigned to the application by the peer reviewers.

(i) For PE points, an administrative error includes mathematical errors made by the Department or the Department's agent in the calculation of the PE points or a failure to correctly add the earned PE points to the peer reviewer score.

(ii) For the peer review score, an administrative error is applying the wrong peer reviewer scores to an application.

(3)(i) A scoring error relates only to the peer review process and includes errors caused by a reviewer who, in assigning points-

(A) Uses criteria not required by the applicable law or program regulations, thenotice inviting applications, the other published application materials for the competition, or guidance provided to the peer reviewers by the Secretary; or

(B) Does not consider relevant information included in the appropriate section of the application.

(ii) The term "scoring error" does not include-

(A) A peer reviewer's appropriate use of his or her professional judgment in evaluating and scoring an application;

(B) Any situation in which the applicant did not include information needed to evaluate its response to a specific selection criterion in the appropriate section of the application as stipulated in thenotice inviting applications or the other published application materials for the competition; or

(C) Any error by the applicant.
