
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 643 - TALENT SEARCH
##### Subpart C - How Does the Secretary Make a Grant?
###### ยง 643.21 What selection criteria does the Secretary use?
####### Plan of operation

(c)(30 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the applicant's plan of operation on the basis of the following:

(1) (3 points) The plan to inform the residents, schools, and community organizations in the target area of the purpose, objectives, and services of the project and the eligibility requirements for participation in the project.

(2) (3 points) The plan to identify and select eligible project participants.

(3) (10 points) The plan for providing the services delineated in ยง 643.4 as appropriate based on the project's assessment of each participant's need for services.

(4) (6 points) The plan to work in a coordinated, collaborative, and cost-effective manner as part of an overarching college access strategy with the target schools or school system and other programs for disadvantaged students to provide participants with access to and assistance in completing a rigorous secondary school program of study.

(5) (6 points) The plan, including timelines, personnel, and other resources, to ensure the proper and efficient administration of the project, including the project's organizational structure; the time commitment of key project staff; and financial, personnel, and records management.

(6) (2 points) The plan to follow former participants as they enter, continue in, and complete postsecondary education.
