
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 644 - EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY CENTERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 644.4 What services may a project provide?

An Educational Opportunity Centers project may provide the following services:

(a) Public information campaigns designed to inform the community about opportunities for postsecondary education and training.

(b) Academic advice and assistance in course selection.

(c) Assistance in completing college admission and financial aid applications.

(d) Assistance in preparing for college entrance examinations.

(e) Education or counseling services designed to improve the financial and economic literacy of participants.

(f) Guidance on secondary school reentry or entry to a General Educational Development (GED) program or other alternative education program for secondary school dropouts.

(g) Individualized personal, career, and academic counseling.

(h) Tutorial services.

(i) Career workshops and counseling.

(j) Mentoring programs involving elementary or secondary school teachers, faculty members at institutions of higher education, students, or any combination of these persons.

(k) Programs and activities described in this section that are specially designed for participants who are limited English proficient, participants from groups that are traditionally underrepresented in postsecondary education, participants who are individuals with disabilities, participants who are homeless children and youth, participants who are foster care youth, or other disconnected participants.

(l) Other activities designed to meet the purposes of the Educational Opportunity Centers program stated in ยง 644.1.
