
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 645 - UPWARD BOUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 645.3 Who is eligible to participate in an Upward Bound project?

An individual is eligible to participate in a Regular, Veterans, or a Math and Science Upward Bound project if the individual meets all of the following requirements:

(a)(1) Is a citizen or national of the United States.

(2) Is a permanent resident of the United States.

(3) Is in the United States for other than a temporary purpose and provides evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization Service of his or her intent to become a permanent resident.

(4) Is a permanent resident of Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

(5) Is a resident of the Freely Associated States-the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau.

(b) Is-

(1) A potential first-generation college student;

(2) A low-income individual; or

(3) An individual who has a high risk for academic failure.

(c) Has a need for academic support, as determined by the grantee, in order to pursue successfully a program of education beyond high school.

(d) At the time of initial selection, has completed the eighth grade and is at least 13 years old but not older than 19, although the Secretary may waive the age requirement if the applicant demonstrates that the limitation would defeat the purposes of the Upward Bound program. However, a veteran as defined in ยง 645.6, regardless of age, is eligible to participate in an Upward Bound project if he or she satisfies the eligibility requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
