
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 645 - UPWARD BOUND PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
###### ยง 645.40 What are allowable costs?

The cost principles that apply to the Upward Bound Program are in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E. Allowable costs include the following if they are reasonably related to the objectives of the project:

(a) In-service training of project staff.

(b) Rental of space if space is not available at the host institution and the space rented is not owned by the host institution.

(c) For participants in an Upward Bound residential summer component, room and board-computed on a weekly basis-not to exceed the weekly rate the host institution charges regularly enrolled students at the institution.

(d) Room and board for those persons responsible for dormitory supervision of participants during a residential summer component.

(e) Educational pamphlets and similar materials for distribution at workshops for the parents of participants.

(f) Student activity fees for Upward Bound participants.

(g) Admissions fees, transportation, Upward Bound T-shirts, and other costs necessary to participate in field trips, attend educational activities, visit museums, and attend other events that have as their purpose the intellectual, social, and cultural development of participants.

(h) Costs for one project-sponsored banquet or ceremony.

(i) Tuition costs for postsecondary credit courses at the host institution for participants in the summer bridge component.

(j)(1) Accident insurance to cover any injuries to a project participant while participating in a project activity; and

(2) Medical insurance and health service fees for the project participants while participating full-time in the summer component.

(k) Courses in English language instruction for project participants with limited proficiency in English and for whom English language proficiency is necessary to succeed in postsecondary education.

(l) Transportation costs of participants for regularly scheduled project activities.

(m) Transportation, meals, and overnight accommodations for staff members when they are required to accompany participants in project activities such as field trips.

(n) Purchase, lease, or rental of computer hardware, software, and other equipment, service agreements for such equipment, and supplies that support the delivery of services to participants, including technology used by participants in a rigorous secondary school program of study.

(o) Purchase, lease, or rental of computer equipment and software, service agreements for such equipment, and supplies needed for project administration and recordkeeping.

(p) Fees required for college admissions applications or entrance examinations if-

(1) A waiver of the fee is unavailable;

(2) The fee is paid by the grantee to a third party on behalf of a participant.

(q) Tuition costs for a course that is part of a rigorous secondary school program of study if-

(1) The course or a similar course is not offered at the secondary school that the participant attends or at another school within the school district;

(2) The grantee demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that using grant funds is the most cost-effective way to deliver the course or courses necessary for the completion of a rigorous secondary school program of study for program participants;

(3) The course is taken through an accredited institution of higher education;

(4) The course is comparable in content and rigor to courses that are part of a rigorous secondary school program of study as defined in ยง 645.6(b);

(5) The secondary school accepts the course as meeting one or more of the course requirements for obtaining a regular secondary school diploma;

(6) A waiver of the tuition costs is unavailable;

(7) The tuition is paid with Upward Bound grant funds to an institution of higher education on behalf of a participant; and

(8) The Upward Bound project pays for no more than the equivalent of two courses for a participant each school year.
