
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 75 - DIRECT GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart D - How Grants Are Made
##### Selection of New Projects
###### ยง 75.210 General selection criteria.
####### Quality of the project design.

(c)(1) The Secretary considers the quality of the design of the proposed project.

(2) In determining the quality of the design of the proposed project, the Secretary considers one or more of the following factors:

(i) The extent to which the goals, objectives, and outcomes to be achieved by the proposed project are clearly specified and measurable.

(ii) The extent to which the design of the proposed project is appropriate to, and will successfully address, the needs of the target population or other identified needs.

(iii) The extent to which there is a conceptual framework underlying the proposed research or demonstration activities and the quality of that framework.

(iv) The extent to which the proposed activities constitute a coherent, sustained program of research and development in the field, including, as appropriate, a substantial addition to an ongoing line of inquiry.

(v) The extent to which the proposed activities constitute a coherent, sustained program of training in the field.

(vi) The extent to which the proposed project is based upon a specific research design, and the quality and appropriateness of that design, including the scientific rigor of the studies involved.

(vii) The extent to which the proposed research design includes a thorough, high-quality review of the relevant literature, a high-quality plan for research activities, and the use of appropriate theoretical and methodological tools, including those of a variety of disciplines, if appropriate.

(viii) The extent to which the design of the proposed project includes a thorough, high-quality review of the relevant literature, a high-quality plan for project implementation, and the use of appropriate methodological tools to ensure successful achievement of project objectives.

(ix) The quality of the proposed demonstration design and procedures for documenting project activities and results.

(x) The extent to which the design for implementing and evaluating the proposed project will result in information to guide possible replication of project activities or strategies, including information about the effectiveness of the approach or strategies employed by the project.

(xi) The extent to which the proposed development efforts include adequate quality controls and, as appropriate, repeated testing of products.

(xii) The extent to which the proposed project is designed to build capacity and yield results that will extend beyond the period of Federal financial assistance.

(xiii) The extent to which the design of the proposed project reflects up-to-date knowledge from research and effective practice.

(xiv) The extent to which the proposed project represents an exceptional approach for meeting statutory purposes and requirements.

(xv) The extent to which the proposed project represents an exceptional approach to the priority or priorities established for the competition.

(xvi) The extent to which the proposed project will integrate with or build on similar or related efforts to improve relevant outcomes (as defined in 34 CFR 77.1(c)), using existing funding streams from other programs or policies supported by community, State, and Federal resources.

(xvii) The extent to which the proposed project will establish linkages with other appropriate agencies and organizations providing services to the target population.

(xviii) The extent to which the proposed project is part of a comprehensive effort to improve teaching and learning and support rigorous academic standards for students.

(xix) The extent to which the proposed project encourages parental involvement.

(xx) The extent to which the proposed project encourages consumer involvement.

(xxi) The extent to which performance feedback and continuous improvement are integral to the design of the proposed project.

(xxii) The quality of the methodology to be employed in the proposed project.

(xxiii) The extent to which fellowship recipients or other project participants are to be selected on the basis of academic excellence.

(xxiv) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates that it has the resources to operate the project beyond the length of the grant, including a multi-year financial and operating model and accompanying plan; the demonstrated commitment of any partners; evidence of broad support from stakeholders (e.g., State educational agencies, teachers' unions) critical to the project's long-term success; or more than one of these types of evidence.

(xxv) The potential and planning for the incorporation of project purposes, activities, or benefits into the ongoing work of the applicant beyond the end of the grant.

(xxvi) The extent to which the proposed project will increase efficiency in the use of time, staff, money, or other resources in order to improve results and increase productivity.

(xxvii) The extent to which the proposed project will integrate with or build on similar or related efforts in order to improve relevant outcomes (as defined in 34 CFR 77.1(c)), using nonpublic funds or resources.

(xxviii) The extent to which the proposed project is supported by promising evidence (as defined in 34 CFR 77.1(c)).

(xxix) The extent to which the proposed project demonstrates a rationale (as defined in 34 CFR 77.1(c)).

(xxx) The extent to which the proposed project represents a faithful adaptation of the evidence cited in support of the proposed project.
