
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 648 - GRADUATE ASSISTANCE IN AREAS OF NATIONAL NEED
##### Subpart F - What Are the Administrative Responsibilities of the Institution?
###### ยง 648.62 How can the institutional payment be used?

(a) The institutional payment must be first applied against a fellow's tuition and fees.

(b) After payment of a fellow's tuition and fees, the institutional payment may be applied against educational expenses of the fellow that are not covered by tuition and fees and are related to the academic program in which the fellow is enrolled. These expenses include the following:

(1) Costs for rental or purchase of any books, materials, or supplies required of students in the same course of study.

(2) Costs of computer hardware, project specific software, and other equipment prorated by the length of the student's fellowship over the reasonable life of the equipment.

(3) Membership fees of professional associations.

(4) Travel and per diem to professional association meetings and registration fees.

(5) International travel, per diem, and registration fees to participate in educational activities.

(6) Expenses incurred in research.

(7) Costs of reproducing and binding of educational products.

(c) The institutional payment must supplement and, to the extent practical, increase the funds that would otherwise be made available for the purpose of the program and, in no case, to supplant institutional funds currently available for fellowships.
