
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 655 - INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 655.3 What regulations apply to the International Education Programs?

The following regulations apply to the International Education Programs:

(a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs).

(3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations).

(4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities), except that part 79 does not apply to 34 CFR parts 660, 669, and 671.

(5) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).

(6)[Reserved]

(7) 34 CFR part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses).

(b) The regulations in this part 655; and

(c) As appropriate, the regulations in-

(1) 34 CFR part 656 (National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area Studies or Foreign Language and International Studies);

(2) 34 CFR part 657 (Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships Program);

(3) 34 CFR part 658 (Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Language Program);

(4) 34 CFR part 660 (International Research and Studies Program);

(5) 34 CFR part 661 (Business and International Education Program); and

(6) 34 CFR part 669 (Language Resource Centers Program).

(d)(1) 2 CFR part 180 (OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3485; and

(2) 2 CFR part 200 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards), as adopted at 2 CFR part 3474.
