
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 656 - NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTERS PROGRAM FOR FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND AREA STUDIES OR FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 656.5 What activities may be carried out?

(a) A Center may carry out any of the activities described in ยง 656.3 under a grant received under this part.

(b) The Secretary may make an additional grant to a Center for any one or a combination of the following purposes:

(1) Linkage or outreach between foreign language, area studies, and other international fields and professional schools and colleges.

(2) Linkage or outreach with 2- and 4-year colleges and universities.

(3) Linkage or outreach between or among-

(i) Postsecondary programs or departments in foreign language, area studies, or other international fields; and

(ii) State educational agencies or local educational agencies.

(4) Partnerships or programs of linkage and outreach with departments or agencies of Federal and State governments, including Federal or State scholarship programs for students in related areas.

(5) Linkage or outreach with the news media, business, professional, or trade associations.

(6) Summer institutes in area studies, foreign Language, and other international fields designed to carry out the activities in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.
