
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 660 - THE INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH AND STUDIES PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - What Kinds of Projects Does the Secretary Assist Under This Program?
###### ยง 660.10 What activities does the Secretary assist?

An applicant may apply for funds to carry out any of the following types of activities:

(a) Studies and surveys to determine the need for increased or improved instruction in-

(1) Modern foreign languages; and

(2) Area studies and other international fields needed to provide full understanding of the places in which those languages are commonly used.

(b) Research and studies-

(1) On more effective methods of instruction and achieving competency in modern foreign languages, area studies, or other international fields;

(2) To evaluate competency in those foreign languages, area studies, or other international fields; or

(3) On the application of performance tests and standards across all areas of foreign language instruction and classroom use.

(c) The development and publication of specialized materials-

(1) For use by students and teachers of modern foreign languages, area studies, and other international fields; and

(2) For use in-

(i) Providing such instruction and evaluation; or

(ii) Training individuals to provide such instruction and evaluation.

(d) Research, surveys, studies, or the development of instructional materials that serve to enhance international understanding.

(e) Other research or material development projects that further the purposes of the International Education Program authorized by part A of title VI of the HEA.

(f) Studies and surveys to assess the use of graduates of programs supported under title VI of the HEA by governmental, educational, and private-sector organizations, and other studies assessing the outcomes and effectiveness of supported programs.

(g) Comparative studies of the effectiveness of strategies to provide international capabilities at institutions of higher education.

(h) Evaluations of the extent to which programs assisted under title VI of the HEA that address national needs would not otherwise be offered.

(i) Studies and surveys of the uses of technology in foreign language, area studies, and international studies programs.

(j) Studies and evaluations of effective practices in the dissemination of international information, materials, research, teaching strategies, and testing techniques through the education community, including elementary and secondary schools.

(k) Evaluations of the extent to which programs assisted under title VI of the HEA reflect diverse perspectives and a wide range of views and generate debate on world regions and international affairs, as described in the grantee's application.

(l) Systematic collection, analysis, and dissemination of data that contribute to achieving the purposes of title VI, part A of the HEA.

(m) Support for programs or activities to make data collected, analyzed, or disseminated under this part publicly available and easy to understand.
