
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 75 - DIRECT GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart E - What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
##### Indirect Cost Rates
###### ยง 75.560 General indirect cost rates; exceptions.

(a) The differences between direct and indirect costs and the principles for determining the general indirect cost rate that a grantee may use for grants under most programs are specified in the cost principles for-

(1) All grantees, other than hospitals and commercial (for-profit) organizations, at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E-Cost Principles;

(2) Hospitals, at 45 CFR part 75, Appendix XI-Principles for Determining Cost Applicable to Research and Development Under Awards and Contracts with Hospitals; and

(3) Commercial (for-profit) organizations, at 48 CFR part 31 Contract Cost Principles and Procedures.

(b) A grantee must have obtained a current indirect cost rate agreement from its cognizant agency, to charge indirect costs to a grant. To obtain an indirect cost rate, a grantee must submit an indirect cost proposal to its cognizant agency within 90 days after the date the Department issues the Grant Award Notification (GAN).

(c) If a grantee does not have a federally recognized indirect cost rate agreement, the Secretary may permit the grantee to charge its grant for indirect costs at a temporary rate of 10 percent of budgeted direct salaries and wages.

(d)(1) If a grantee fails to submit an indirect cost rate proposal to its cognizant agency within the required 90 days, the grantee may not charge indirect costs to its grant from the end of the 90-day period until it obtains a federally recognized indirect cost rate agreement applicable to the grant.

(2) If the Secretary determines that exceptional circumstances warrant continuation of a temporary indirect cost rate, the Secretary may authorize the grantee to continue charging indirect costs to its grant at the temporary rate specified in paragraph (c) of this section even though the grantee has not submitted its indirect cost rate proposal within the 90-day period.

(3) Once a grantee obtains a federally recognized indirect cost rate that is applicable to the affected grant, the grantee may use that indirect cost rate to claim indirect cost reimbursement for expenditures made on or after the date the grantee submitted its indirect cost proposal to its cognizant agency or the start of the project period, whichever is later. However, this authority is subject to the following limitations:

(i) The total amount of funds recovered by the grantee under the federally recognized indirect cost rate is reduced by the amount of indirect costs previously recovered under the temporary indirect cost rate.

(ii) The grantee must obtain prior approval from the Secretary to shift direct costs to indirect costs in order to recover indirect costs at a higher negotiated indirect cost rate.

(iii) The grantee may not request additional funds to recover indirect costs that it cannot recover by shifting direct costs to indirect costs.

(e) The Secretary accepts an indirect cost rate negotiated by a grantee's cognizant agency, but may establish a restricted indirect cost rate for a grantee to satisfy the statutory requirements of certain programs administered by the Department.
