
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 75 - DIRECT GRANT PROGRAMS
#### Subpart E - What Conditions Must Be Met by a Grantee?
##### Indirect Cost Rates
###### ยง 75.562 Indirect cost rates for educational training projects.

(a) Educational training grants provide funding for training or other educational services. Examples of the work supported by training grants are summer institutes, training programs for selected participants, the introduction of new or expanded courses, and similar instructional undertakings that are separately budgeted and accounted for by the sponsoring institution. These grants do not usually support activities involving research, development, and dissemination of new educational materials and methods. Training grants largely implement previously developed materials and methods and require no significant adaptation of techniques or instructional services to fit different circumstances.

(b) The Secretary uses the definition in paragraph (a) to determine which grants are educational training grants.

(c)(1) Indirect cost reimbursement on a training grant is limited to the recipient's actual indirect costs, as determined in its negotiated indirect cost rate agreement, or eight percent of a modified total direct cost base, whichever amount is less.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a modified total direct cost base consists of total direct costs minus the following:

(i) The amount of each sub-award in excess of $25,000.

(ii) Stipends.

(iii) Tuition and related fees.

(iv) Equipment, as defined in 2 CFR 200.33.

(3) The eight percent indirect cost reimbursement limit specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section also applies to sub-awards that fund training, as determined by the Secretary under paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) The eight percent limit does not apply to agencies of Indian tribal governments, local governments, and States as defined in 2 CFR 200.54, 200.200.64, and 200.90, respectively.

(5) Indirect costs in excess of the eight percent limit may not be charged directly, used to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements, or charged to another Federal award.

(d) A grantee using the training rate of eight percent is required to have documentation available for audit that shows that its negotiated indirect cost rate is at least eight percent.
