
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Standards for Participation in Title IV, HEA Programs
###### ยง 668.20 Limitations on remedial coursework that is eligible for Title IV, HEA program assistance.

(a) A noncredit or reduced credit remedial course is a course of study designed to increase the ability of a student to pursue a course of study leading to a certificate or degree.

(1) A noncredit remedial course is one for which no credit is given toward a certificate or degree; and

(2) A reduced credit remedial course is one for which reduced credit is given toward a certificate or degree.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, in determining a student's enrollment status and cost of attendance, an institution shall include any noncredit or reduced credit remedial course in which the student is enrolled. The institution shall attribute the number of credit or clock hours to a noncredit or reduced credit remedial course by-

(1) Calculating the number of classroom and homework hours required for that course;

(2) Comparing those hours with the hours required for nonremedial courses in a similar subject; and

(3) Giving the remedial course the same number of credit or clock hours it gives the nonremedial course with the most comparable classroom and homework requirements.

(c) In determining a student's enrollment status under the Title IV, HEA programs or a student's cost of attendance under the campus-based, FFEL, and Direct Loan programs, an institution may not take into account any noncredit or reduced credit remedial course if-

(1) That course is part of a program of instruction leading to a high school diploma or the recognized equivalent of a high school diploma, even if the course is necessary to enable the student to complete a degree or certificate program;

(2) The educational level of instruction provided in the noncredit or reduced credit remedial course is below the level needed to pursue successfully the degree or certificate program offered by that institution after one year in that remedial course; or

(3) Except for a course in English as a second language, the educational level of instruction provided in that course is below the secondary level. For purposes of this section, the Secretary considers a course to be below the secondary level if any of the following entities determine that course to be below the secondary level:

(i) The State agency that legally authorized the institution to provide postsecondary education.

(ii) In the case of an accredited or preaccredited institution, the nationally recognized accrediting agency or association that accredits or preaccredits the institution.

(iii) In the case of a public postsecondary vocational institution that is approved by a State agency recognized for the approval of public postsecondary vocational education, the State agency recognized for the approval of public postsecondary vocational education that approves the institution.

(iv) The institution.

(d) Except as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, an institution may not take into account more than one academic year's worth of noncredit or reduced credit remedial coursework in determining-

(1) A student's enrollment status under the title IV, HEA programs; and

(2) A student's cost of attendance under the campus-based, FFEL, and Direct Loan programs.

(e) One academic year's worth of noncredit or reduced credit remedial coursework is equivalent to-

(1) Thirty semester or 45 quarter hours; or

(2) Nine hundred clock hours.

(f) Courses in English as a second language do not count against the one-year academic limitation contained in paragraph (d) of this section.
