
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Standards for Participation in Title IV, HEA Programs
###### ยง 668.22 Treatment of title IV funds when a student withdraws.
####### Definitions.

(l)For purposes of this section-

(1) Title IV grant or loan funds that "could have been disbursed" are determined in accordance with the late disbursement provisions in ยง 668.164(j).

(2) A "period of enrollment" is the academic period established by the institution for which institutional charges are generally assessed (i.e. length of the student's program or academic year).

(3) The "date of the institution's determination that the student withdrew"for an institution that is not required to take attendance is-

(i) For a student who provides notification to the institution of his or her withdrawal, the student's withdrawal date as determined under paragraph (c) of this section or the date of notification of withdrawal, whichever is later;

(ii) For a student who did not provide notification of his of her withdrawal to the institution, the date that the institution becomes aware that the student ceased attendance;

(iii) For a student who does not return from an approved leave of absence, the earlier of the date of the end of the leave of absence or the date the student notifies the institution that he or she will not be returning to the institution; or

(iv) For a student whose rescission is negated under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the date the institution becomes aware that the student did not, or will not, complete the payment period or period of enrollment.

(v) For a student who takes a leave of absence that is not approved in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the date that the student begins the leave of absence.

(4) A "recipient of title IV grant or loan assistance" is a student for whom the requirements of ยง 668.164(j)(2) have been met.

(5) Terms are "substantially equal in length" if no term in the program is more than two weeks of instructional time longer than any other term in that program.

(6) A program is "offered in modules" if the program uses a standard term or nonstandard-term academic calendar, is not a subscription-based program, and a course or courses in the program do not span the entire length of the payment period or period of enrollment.

(7)(i) "Academic attendance" and "attendance at an academically-related activity" must include academic engagement as defined under 34 CFR 600.2.

(ii) A determination of "academic attendance" or "attendance at an academically-related activity" must be made by the institution; a student's certification of attendance that is not supported by institutional documentation is not acceptable.

(8) A program is a nonstandard-term program if the program is a term-based program that does not qualify under 34 CFR 690.63(a)(1) or (a)(2) to calculate Federal Pell Grant payments under 34 CFR 690.63(b) or (c).

(9) A student in a program offered in modules is scheduled to complete the days in a module if the student's coursework in that module was used to determine the amount of the student's eligibility for title IV, HEA funds for the payment period or period of enrollment.
