
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Institutional and Financial Assistance Information for Students
###### ยง 668.41 Reporting and disclosure of information.
####### General disclosures for enrolled or prospective students.

(d)An institution must make available to any enrolled student or prospective student through appropriate publications, mailings or electronic media, information concerning-

(1) Financial assistance available to students enrolled in the institution (pursuant to ยง 668.42).

(2) The institution (pursuant to ยง 668.43).

(3) The institution's retention rate as reported to the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS). In the case of a request from a prospective student, the information must be made available prior to the student's enrolling or entering into any financial obligation with the institution.

(4) The institution's completion or graduation rate and, if applicable, its transfer-out rate (pursuant to ยง 668.45). In the case of a request from a prospective student, the information must be made available prior to the student's enrolling or entering into any financial obligation with the institution.

(5) The placement of, and types of employment obtained by, graduates of the institution's degree or certificate programs.

(i) The information provided in compliance with this paragraph may be gathered from-

(A) The institution's placement rate for any program, if it publishes or uses in advertising such a rate;

(B) State data systems;

(C) Alumni or student satisfaction surveys; or

(D) Other relevant sources.

(ii) [Reserved]

(6) The types of graduate and professional education in which graduates of the institution's four-year degree programs enroll.

(i) The information provided in compliance with this paragraph may be gathered from-

(A) State data systems;

(B) Alumni or student satisfaction surveys; or

(C) Other relevant sources.

(ii) The institution must identify the source of the information provided in compliance with this paragraph, as well as any time frames and methodology associated with it.
