
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Institutional and Financial Assistance Information for Students
###### ยง 668.41 Reporting and disclosure of information.
####### Enrolled students, prospective students, and the public-report on athletic program participation rates and financial support data.

(g)(1)(i) An institution of higher education subject to ยง 668.47 must, not later than October 15 of each year, make available to enrolled students, prospective students, and the public, the report produced pursuant to ยง 668.47(c). The institution must make the report easily accessible to students, prospective students, and the public and must provide the report promptly to anyone who requests it.

(ii) The institution must provide notice to all enrolled students, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and prospective students of their right to request the report described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the institution chooses to make the report available by posting the disclosure on an Internet website or an Intranet website, it must provide in the notice the exact electronic address at which the report is posted, a brief description of the report, and a statement that the institution will provide a paper copy of the report on request. For prospective students, the institution may not use an Intranet website for this purpose.

(2) An institution must submit the report described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section to the Secretary within 15 days of making it available to students, prospective students, and the public.
