
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Institutional and Financial Assistance Information for Students
###### ยง 668.46 Institutional security policies and crime statistics.
####### All reported crimes must be recorded.

(2)(i) An institution must include in its crime statistics all crimes listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section occurring on or within its Clery geography that are reported to a campus security authority for purposes of Clery Act reporting. Clery Act reporting does not require initiating an investigation or disclosing personally identifying information about the victim, as defined in section 40002(a)(20) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)(20)).

(ii) An institution may not withhold, or subsequently remove, a reported crime from its crime statistics based on a decision by a court, coroner, jury, prosecutor, or other similar noncampus official.

(iii) An institution may withhold, or subsequently remove, a reported crime from its crime statistics in the rare situation where sworn or commissioned law enforcement personnel have fully investigated the reported crime and, based on the results of this full investigation and evidence, have made a formal determination that the crime report is false or baseless and therefore "unfounded." Only sworn or commissioned law enforcement personnel may "unfound" a crime report for purposes of reporting under this section. The recovery of stolen property, the low value of stolen property, the refusal of the victim to cooperate with the prosecution, and the failure to make an arrest do not "unfound" a crime report.

(A) An institution must report to the Department and disclose in its annual security report statistics the total number of crime reports listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section that were "unfounded" and subsequently withheld from its crime statistics pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section during each of the three most recent calendar years.

(B) [Reserved]
