
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Institutional and Financial Assistance Information for Students
###### ยง 668.46 Institutional security policies and crime statistics.
####### Using the FBI's UCR program and the Hierarchy Rule.

(9)(i) An institution must compile the crime statistics for murder and nonnegligent manslaughter, negligent manslaughter, rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, motor vehicle theft, arson, liquor law violations, drug law violations, and illegal weapons possession using the definitions of those crimes from the "Summary Reporting System (SRS) User Manual" from the FBI's UCR Program, as provided in Appendix A to this subpart.

(ii) An institution must compile the crime statistics for fondling, incest, and statutory rape using the definitions of those crimes from the "National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) User Manual" from the FBI's UCR Program, as provided in Appendix A to this subpart.

(iii) An institution must compile the crime statistics for the hate crimes of larceny-theft, simple assault, intimidation, and destruction/damage/vandalism of property using the definitions provided in the "Hate Crime Data Collection Guidelines and Training Manual" from the FBI's UCR Program, as provided in Appendix A to this subpart.

(iv) An institution must compile the crime statistics for dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking using the definitions provided in paragraph (a) of this section.

(v) In counting crimes when more than one offense was committed during a single incident, an institution must conform to the requirements of the Hierarchy Rule in the "Summary Reporting System (SRS) User Manual.

(vi) If arson is committed, an institution must always record the arson in its statistics, regardless of whether or not it occurs in the same incident as another crime.

(vii) If rape, fondling, incest, or statutory rape occurs in the same incident as a murder, an institution must record both the sex offense and the murder in its statistics.
