
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Institutional and Financial Assistance Information for Students
###### ยง 668.49 Institutional fire safety policies and fire statistics.
####### Annual fire safety report.

(b)Beginning by October 1, 2010, an institution that maintains any on-campus student housing facility must prepare an annual fire safety report that contains, at a minimum, the following information:

(1) The fire statistics described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) A description of each on-campus student housing facility fire safety system.

(3) The number of fire drills held during the previous calendar year.

(4) The institution's policies or rules on portable electrical appliances, smoking, and open flames in a student housing facility.

(5) The institution's procedures for student housing evacuation in the case of a fire.

(6) The policies regarding fire safety education and training programs provided to the students and employees. In these policies, the institution must describe the procedures that students and employees should follow in the case of a fire.

(7) For purposes of including a fire in the statistics in the annual fire safety report, a list of the titles of each person or organization to which students and employees should report that a fire occurred.

(8) Plans for future improvements in fire safety, if determined necessary by the institution.
