
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
###### ยง 668.83 Emergency action.
####### 2

() The accreditation or preaccreditation of an institution or any of the institution's educational programs or locations;

(D) Falsification, including false certifications, of any document submitted to a guaranty agency under the Federal Stafford Loan or Federal PLUS programs or an independent auditor;

(E) Falsification of any document submitted to a third-party servicer by an institution or to an institution by a third-party servicer pertaining to the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program; and

(F) Falsification, including false certifications, of any document pertaining to the performance of any loan collection activity, including activity that is not required by the HEA or applicable program regulations.

(3) If the Secretary begins an emergency action against a third-party servicer, the Secretary may also begin an emergency action against any institution under whose contract a third-party servicer commits the violation.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, after an emergency action becomes effective, an institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, may not-

(i) Make or increase awards or make other commitments of aid to a student under the applicable Title IV, HEA program;

(ii) Disburse either program funds, institutional funds, or other funds as assistance to a student under that Title IV, HEA program;

(iii) In the case of an emergency action pertaining to participation in the Federal Stafford Loan or Federal PLUS programs-

(A) Certify an application for a loan under that program;

(B) Deliver loan proceeds to a student under that program; or

(C) Retain the proceeds of a loan made under that program that are received after the emergency action takes effect; or

(iv) In the case of an emergency action against a third-party servicer, administer any aspect of any institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program.

(2) If the initiating official withdraws, by an emergency action, the authority of the institution or servicer to commit, disburse, deliver, or cause the commitment, disbursement, or delivery of Title IV, HEA program funds, or the authority of the servicer to administer any aspect of any institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program, except in accordance with a particular procedure specified in the notice of emergency action, the institution or servicer, as applicable, may not take any action described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section except in accordance with the procedure specified in the notice.

(e)(1) Upon request by the institution or servicer, as applicable, the Secretary provides the institution or servicer, as soon as practicable, with an opportunity to show cause that the emergency action is unwarranted or should be modified.

(2) An opportunity to show cause consists of an opportunity to present evidence and argument to a show-cause official. The initiating official does not act as the show-cause official for any emergency action that the initiating official has begun. The show-cause official is authorized to grant relief from the emergency action. The institution or servicer may make its presentation in writing or, upon its request, at an informal meeting with the show-cause official.

(3) The show-cause official may limit the time and manner in which argument and evidence may be presented in order to avoid unnecessary delay or the presentation of immaterial, irrelevant, or repetitious matter.

(4) The institution or servicer, as applicable, has the burden of persuading the show-cause official that the emergency action imposed by the notice is unwarranted or should be modified because-

(i) The grounds stated in the notice did not, or no longer, exist;

(ii) The grounds stated in the notice will not cause loss or misuse of Title IV, HEA program funds; or

(iii) The institution or servicer, as applicable, will use procedures that will reliably eliminate the risk of loss from the misuse described in the notice.

(5) The show-cause official continues, modifies, or revokes the emergency action promptly after consideration of any argument and evidence presented by the institution or servicer, as applicable, and the initiating official.

(6) The show-cause official notifies the institution or servicer, as applicable, of that official's determination promptly after the completion of the show-cause meeting or, if no meeting is requested, after the official receives all the material submitted by the institution in opposition to the emergency action. In the case of a notice to a third-party servicer, the official also notifies each institution that contracts with the servicer of that determination. The show-cause official may explain that determination by adopting or modifying the statement of reasons provided in the notice of emergency action.

(f)(1) An emergency action does not extend more than 30 days after initiated unless the Secretary initiates a limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding under this part or under 34 CFR part 600 against the institution or servicer, as applicable, within that 30-day period, in which case the emergency action continues until a final decision is issued in that proceeding, as provided in ยง 668.91(c), as applicable.

(2) Until a final decision is issued by the Secretary in a proceeding described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, any action affecting the emergency action is at the sole discretion of the initiating official, or, if a show- cause proceeding is conducted, the show-cause official.

(3) If an emergency action extends beyond 180 days by virtue of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the institution or servicer, as applicable, may then submit written material to the show-cause official to demonstrate that because of facts occurring after the later of the notice by the initiating official or the show-cause meeting, continuation of the emergency action is unwarranted and the emergency action should be modified or ended. The show-cause official considers any written material submitted and issues a determination that continues, modifies, or revokes the emergency action.

(g) The expiration of an emergency action, or its modification or revocation by the show-cause official, does not bar subsequent emergency action on a ground other than one specifically identified in the notice imposing the prior emergency action. Separate grounds may include violation of an agreement or limitation imposed or resulting from the prior emergency action.
