
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
###### ยง 668.84 Fine proceedings.
####### Procedures.

(b)(1) A designated department official begins a fine proceeding by sending the institution or servicer, as applicable, a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. In the case of a fine proceeding against a third-party servicer, the official also sends the notice to each institution that is affected by the alleged violations identified as the basis for the fine action, and, to the extent possible, to each institution that contracts with the servicer for the same service affected by the violation. This notice-

(i) Informs the institution or servicer of the Secretary's intent to fine the institution or servicer, as applicable, and the amount of the fine and identifies the alleged violations that constitute the basis for the action;

(ii) Specifies the proposed effective date of the fine, which is at least 20 days from mailing of the notice of intent;

(iii) Informs the institution or servicer that the fine will not be effective on the date specified in the notice if the designated department official receives from the institution or servicer, as applicable, by that date a written request for a hearing or written material indicating why the fine should not be imposed; and

(iv) In the case of a fine proceeding against a third-party servicer, informs each institution that is affected by the alleged violations of the consequences of the action to the institution.

(2) If the institution or servicer does not request a hearing but submits written material, the designated department official, after considering that material, notifies the institution or, in the case of a third-party servicer, the servicer and each institution affected by the alleged violations that-

(i) The fine will not be imposed; or

(ii) The fine is imposed as of a specified date, and in a specified amount.

(3) If the institution or servicer requests a hearing by the time specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the designated department official transmits the request for hearing and response to the Office of Hearings and Appeals, which sets the date and the place. The date is at least 15 days after the designated department official receives the request.

(4) A hearing official conducts a hearing in accordance with ยง 668.89.
