
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
###### ยง 668.85 Suspension proceedings.
####### Procedures.

(b)(1) A designated department official begins a suspension proceeding by sending a notice to an institution or third-party servicer by certified mail, return receipt requested. In the case of a suspension proceeding against a third-party servicer, the official also sends the notice to each institution that contracts with the servicer. The designated department official may also transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means if practical. The notice-

(i) Informs the institution or servicer of the intent of the Secretary to suspend the institution's participation or the servicer's eligibility, as applicable, cites the consequences of that action, and identifies the alleged violations that constitute the basis for the action;

(ii) Specifies the proposed effective date of the suspension, which is at least 20 days after the date of mailing of the notice of intent;

(iii) Informs the institution or servicer that the suspension will not be effective on the date specified in the notice, except as provided in ยง 668.91(b)(2), if the designated department official receives from the institution or servicer, as applicable, by that date a request for a hearing or written material indicating why the suspension should not take place; and

(iv) In the case of a suspension proceeding against a third-party servicer, informs each institution that contracts with the servicer of the consequences of the action to the institution.

(2) If the institution or servicer does not request a hearing, but submits written material, the designated department official, after considering that material, notifies the institution or, in the case of a third-party servicer, the servicer and each institution that contracts with the servicer that-

(i) The proposed suspension is dismissed; or

(ii) The suspension is effective as of a specified date.

(3) If the institution or servicer requests a hearing by the time specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the designated department official transmits the request for hearing and response to the Office of Hearings and Appeals, which sets the date and the place. The date is at least 15 days after the designated department official receives the request. The suspension does not take place until the requested hearing is held.

(4) A hearing official conducts a hearing in accordance with ยง 668.89.
