
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
###### ยง 668.86 Limitation or termination proceedings.
####### Procedures.

(b)(1) A designated department official begins a limitation or termination proceeding by sending an institution or third-party servicer a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. In the case of a limitation or termination proceeding against a third-party servicer, the official also sends the notice to each institution that contracts with the servicer. The designated department official may also transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means if practical. This notice-

(i) Informs the institution or servicer of the intent of the Secretary to limit or terminate the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility, as applicable, cites the consequences of that action, and identifies the alleged violations that constitute the basis for the action, and, in the case of a limitation proceeding, states the limits to be imposed;

(ii) Specifies the proposed effective date of the limitation or termination, which is at least 20 days after the date of mailing of the notice of intent;

(iii) Informs the institution or servicer that the limitation or termination will not be effective on the date specified in the notice if the designated department official receives from the institution or servicer, as applicable, by that date a request for a hearing or written material indicating why the limitation or termination should not take place; and

(iv) In the case of a limitation or termination proceeding against a third-party servicer, informs each institution that contracts with the servicer of the consequences of the action to the institution.

(2) If the institution or servicer does not request a hearing but submits written material, the designated department official, after considering that material, notifies the institution or, in the case of a third-party servicer, the servicer and each institution that contracts with the servicer that-

(i) The proposed action is dismissed;

(ii) Limitations are effective as of a specified date; or

(iii) The termination is effective as of a specified date.

(3) If the institution or servicer requests a hearing by the time specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the designated department official transmits the request for hearing and response to the Office of Hearings and Appeals, which sets the date and place. The date is at least 15 days after the designated department official receives the request. The limitation or termination does not take place until after the requested hearing is held.

(4) A hearing official conducts a hearing in accordance with ยง 668.89.
