
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
###### ยง 668.88 Prehearing conference and motion practice.

(a) A hearing official may convene a prehearing conference if he or she thinks that the conference would be useful, or if the conference is requested by-

(1) The designated department official who brought a proceeding against an institution or third-party servicer under this subpart; or

(2) The institution or servicer, as applicable.

(b) The purpose of a prehearing conference is to allow the parties to settle or narrow the dispute.

(c) If the hearing official, the designated department official, and the institution, or servicer, as applicable, agree, a prehearing conference may consist of-

(1) A conference telephone call;

(2) An informal meeting; or

(3) The submission and exchange of written material.

(d) A non-dispositive motion shall be made, if at all, consistent with any procedures set forth by the hearing official. In the absence of such procedures, non-dispositive motions shall be permitted, and responses to such motions shall be permitted though not required.

(e)(1) A party may make a motion for summary disposition asserting that the undisputed facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted in connection with a motion for summary disposition establish that-

(i) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and

(ii) The moving party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.

(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by evidence that the moving party contends support his or her position. The motion must be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities supporting the motion.

(f) A motion under consideration by the Secretary or the hearing official shall not stay proceedings before the hearing official unless the Secretary or the hearing official, as appropriate, so orders.
