
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
###### § 668.91 Initial and final decisions.
####### 2

() Upon proof of the conditions in § 668.174(b)(1), the hearing official finds that the limitation or termination is warranted unless the institution demonstrates that all applicable conditions described in § 668.174(b)(2) or § 668.175(h)(2) have been met.

(4) The hearing official bases findings of fact only on evidence considered at the hearing and on matters given judicial notice.

(b)(1) In a suspension proceeding, the Secretary reviews the hearing official's initial decision and issues a final decision within 20 days after the initial decision. The Secretary adopts the initial decision unless it is clearly unsupported by the evidence presented at the hearing.

(2) The Secretary notifies the institution or servicer and, in the case of a suspension proceeding against a third-party servicer, each institution that contracts with the servicer of the final decision. If the Secretary suspends the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility, the suspension takes effect on the later of-

(i) The day that the institution or servicer receives the notice; or

(ii) The date specified in the designated department official's original notice of intent to suspend the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility.

(3) A suspension may not exceed 60 days unless a designated department official begins a limitation or termination proceeding under this subpart before the expiration of that period. In that case, the period may be extended until a final decision is issued in that proceeding according to paragraph (c) of this section.

(c)(1) In a fine, limitation, or termination proceeding, the hearing official's initial decision automatically becomes the Secretary's final decision 30 days after the initial decision is issued and received by both parties unless, within that 30-day period, the institution or servicer, as applicable, or the designated department official appeals the initial decision to the Secretary.

(2)(i) A party may appeal the hearing official's initial decision by submitting to the Secretary, within 30 days after the party receives the initial decision, a brief or other written statement that explains why the party believes that the Secretary should reverse or modify the decision of the hearing official.

(ii) At the time the party files its appeal submission, the party shall provide a copy of that submission to the opposing party.

(iii) The opposing party shall submit its brief or other responsive statement to the Secretary, with a copy to the appellant, within 30 days after the opposing party receives the appellant's brief or written statement.

(iv) The appealing party may submit proposed findings of fact or conclusions of law. However, the proposed findings of fact must be supported by-

(A) The evidence introduced into the record at the hearing;

(B) Stipulations of the parties if the hearing consisted of written submissions; or

(C) Matters that may be judicially noticed.

(v) Neither party may introduce new evidence on appeal.

(vi) The initial decision of the hearing official imposing a fine or limiting or terminating the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility does not take effect pending the appeal.

(vii) The Secretary renders a final decision. The Secretary may delegate to a designated department official the functions described in paragraph (c)(2) (vii) through (ix) of this section.

(viii) In rendering a final decision, the Secretary considers only evidence introduced into the record at the hearing and facts agreed to by the parties if the hearing consisted only of written submissions and matters that may be judicially noticed.

(ix) If the hearing official finds that a termination is warranted pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse the initial decision, or may remand the case to the hearing official for further proceedings consistent with the Secretary's decision. If the Secretary affirms the initial decision without issuing a statement of reasons, the Secretary adopts the opinion of the hearing official as the decision of the Secretary. If the Secretary modifies, remands, or reverses the initial decision, in whole or in part, the Secretary's decision states the reasons for the action taken.

(x) In a borrower defense and recovery proceeding conducted in two phases under § 668.87(a)(1)(iv)(B), if a party appeals an initial decision of the hearing official in the first phase, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse the initial decision, or may remand the case to the hearing official for further proceedings consistent with the Secretary's decision.
