
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
###### ยง 668.92 Filing of requests for hearings and appeals; confirmation of mailing and receipt dates.
####### Confirmation of mailing and receipt dates.

(b)(1) The mailing date of a notice from a designated department official initiating an action under this subpart is the date evidenced on the original receipt of mailing from the U.S. Postal Service.

(2) The date on which a request for a show-cause opportunity, a request for a hearing, other material submitted in response to a notice of action under this subpart, a decision by a hearing official, or a notice of appeal is received is, as applicable-

(i) The date of receipt evidenced on the original receipt for a document sent by certified mail.

(ii) The date following the date recorded by the delivery service as the date material was sent for a document sent by next-day delivery service.

(iii) The date a document sent by regular mail is recorded, according to the regular business practice of the office receiving the document, as received.

(iv) The date a document sent by facsimile transmission is recorded as received by the facsimile equipment that receives the transmission.

(v) The date a document sent electronically via the OES is recorded as received by the OES as indicated in the confirmation of receipt email for E-filing.
