
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart N - Cohort Default Rates
###### § 668.204 Draft cohort default rates and your ability to challenge before official cohort default rates are issued.
####### Participation rate index challenges.

(c)(1)(i) You may challenge an anticipated loss of eligibility under § 668.206(a)(1), based on one cohort default rate over 40 percent, if your participation rate index for that cohort's fiscal year is equal to or less than 0.0832.

(ii) Subject to § 668.208(b), you may challenge a potential loss of eligibility under § 668.206(a)(2), based on any cohort default rate that is less than or equal to 40 percent, but greater than or equal to 30 percent, for any of the three most recently calculated fiscal years, if your participation rate index is equal to or less than 0.0625 for that cohort's fiscal year.

(iii) You may challenge a potential placement on provisional certification under § 668.16(m)(2)(i), based on any cohort default rate that fails to satisfy the standard of administrative capability in § 668.16(m)(1)(ii), if your participation rate index is equal to or less than 0.0625 for that cohort's fiscal year.

(2) For a participation rate index challenge, your participation rate index is calculated as described in § 668.214(b), except that-

(i) The draft cohort default rate is considered to be your most recent cohort default rate; and

(ii) If the cohort used to calculate your draft cohort default rate included fewer than 30 borrowers, you may calculate your participation rate index for that fiscal year using either your most recent draft cohort default rate or the average rate that would be calculated for that fiscal year, using the method described in § 668.202(d)(2).

(3) You must send your participation rate index challenge, including all supporting documentation, to us within 45 days after you receive your draft cohort default rate.

(4) We notify you of our determination on your participation rate index challenge before your official cohort default rate is published.

(5) If we determine that you qualify for continued eligibility or full certification based on your participation rate index challenge, you will not lose eligibility under § 668.206 or be placed on provisional certification under § 668.16(m)(2)(i) when your next official cohort default rate is published. Unless that next official cohort default rate is less than or equal to your draft cohort default rate, a successful challenge that is based on your draft cohort default rate does not excuse you from any other loss of eligibility or placement on provisional certification. However, if your successful challenge under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section is based on a prior, official cohort default rate, and not on your draft cohort default rate, or if the next official cohort default rate published is less than or equal to the draft rate you successfully challenged, we also excuse you from any subsequent loss of eligibility, under § 668.206(a)(2), or placement on provisional certification, under § 668.16(m)(2)(i), that would be based on that official cohort default rate.
