
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 668 - STUDENT ASSISTANCE GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart N - Cohort Default Rates
###### Appendix A to Subpart N of Part 668 - Sample Default Prevention Plan

This appendix is provided as a sample plan for those institutions developing a default prevention plan in accordance with ยง 668.217(a). It describes some measures you may find helpful in reducing the number of students that default on Federally funded loans. These are not the only measures you could implement when developing a default prevention plan.

1. Establish your default prevention team by engaging your chief executive officer and relevant senior executive officials and enlisting the support of representatives from offices other than the financial aid office. Consider including individuals and organizations independent of your institution that have experience in preventing title IV loan defaults.

2. Consider your history, resources, dollars in default, and targets for default reduction to determine which activities will result in the most benefit to you and your students.

3. Define evaluation methods and establish a data collection system for measuring and verifying relevant default prevention statistics, including a statistical analysis of the borrowers who default on their loans.

4. Identify and allocate the personnel, administrative, and financial resources appropriate to implement the default prevention plan.

5. Establish annual targets for reductions in your rate.

6. Establish a process to ensure the accuracy of your rate.

1. Enhance the borrower's understanding of his or her loan repayment responsibilities through counseling and debt management activities.

2. Enhance the enrollment retention and academic persistence of borrowers through counseling and academic assistance.

3. Maintain contact with the borrower after he or she leaves your institution by using activities such as skip tracing to locate the borrower.

4. Track the borrower's delinquency status by obtaining reports from data managers and FFEL Program lenders.

5. Enhance student loan repayments through counseling the borrower on loan repayment options and facilitating contact between the borrower and the data manager or FFEL Program lender.

6. Assist a borrower who is experiencing difficulty in finding employment through career counseling, job placement assistance, and facilitating unemployment deferments.

7. Identify and implement alternative financial aid award policies and develop alternative financial resources that will reduce the need for student borrowing in the first 2 years of academic study.

1. The number of students enrolled at your institution during each fiscal year.

2. The average amount borrowed by a student each fiscal year.

3. The number of borrowers scheduled to enter repayment each fiscal year.

4. The number of enrolled borrowers who received default prevention counseling services each fiscal year.

5. The average number of contacts that you or your agent had with a borrower who was in deferment or forbearance or in repayment status during each fiscal year.

6. The number of borrowers at least 60 days delinquent each fiscal year.

7. The number of borrowers who defaulted in each fiscal year.

8. The type, frequency, and results of activities performed in accordance with the default prevention plan.
