
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 673 - GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR THE FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM, FEDERAL WORK-STUDY PROGRAM, AND FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions for the Federal Perkins Loan, FWS, and FSEOG Programs
###### ยง 673.6 Coordination with BIA grants.
####### Coordination of BIA grants with Federal Perkins loans, FWS awards, or FSEOGs.

(a)To determine the amount of a Federal Perkins loan, FWS compensation, or an FSEOG for a student who is also eligible for a Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) education grant, an institution shall prepare a package of student aid-

(1) From estimated financial assistance other than the BIA education grant the student has received or is expected to receive; and

(2) That is consistent in type and amount with packages prepared for students in similar circumstances who are not eligible for a BIA education grant.

(b)(1) The BIA education grant, whether received by the student before or after the preparation of the student aid package, supplements the student aid package specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) No adjustment may be made to the student aid package as long as the total of the package and the BIA education grant is less than the institution's determination of that student's financial need.

(c)(1) If the BIA education grant, when combined with other aid in the package, exceeds the student's need, the excess must be deducted from the other assistance (except for Federal Pell Grants), not from the BIA education grant.

(2) The institution shall deduct the excess in the following sequence: loans, work-study awards, and grants other than Federal Pell Grants. However, the institution may change the sequence if requested to do so by a student and the institution believes the change benefits the student.

(d) To determine the financial need of a student who is also eligible for a BIA education grant, a financial aid administrator is encouraged to consult with area officials in charge of BIA postsecondary financial aid.
