
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 674.5 Federal Perkins Loan program cohort default rate and penalties.
####### Locations of the institution.

(d)(1) A cohort default rate of an institution applies to all locations of the institution as it exists on the first day of the award year for which the rate is calculated.

(2) A cohort default rate of an institution applies to all locations of the institution from the date the institution is notified of that rate until the institution is notified by the Secretary that the rate no longer applies.

(3) For an institution that changes status from a location of one institution to a free-standing institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the institution's status as of July 1 of the award year for which a cohort default rate is being calculated.

(4)(i) For an institution that changes status from a free-standing institution to a location of another institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable award years from both the former free-standing institution and the other institution. This cohort default rate applies to the new consolidated institution and all of its current locations.

(ii) For free-standing institutions that merge, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable award years from both of the institutions that are merging. This cohort default rate applies to the new, consolidated institution.

(iii) For an institution that changes status from a location of one institution to a location of another institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the number of students who default during the applicable award years from both of the institutions in their entirety, not limited solely to the respective locations.

(5) For an institution that has a change in ownership that results in a change in control, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable award years from the institution under both the old and new control.
