
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 674.19 Fiscal procedures and records.
####### Fiscal procedures.

(a)(1) In administering its Federal Perkins Loan program, an institution shall establish and maintain an internal control system of checks and balances that ensures that no office can both authorize payments and disburse funds to students.

(2)(i) A separate bank account for Federal funds is not required, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) An institution shall notify any bank in which it deposits Federal funds of the accounts into which those funds are deposited by-

(A) Ensuring that the name of the account clearly discloses the fact that Federal funds are deposited in the account; or

(B) Notifying the bank, in writing, of the names of the accounts in which it deposits Federal funds. The institution shall retain a copy of this notice in its files.

(3)(i) The institution shall ensure that the cash balances of the accounts into which it deposits Federal Perkins Loan Fund cash assets do not fall below the amount of Fund cash assets deposited in those accounts but not yet expended on authorized purposes in accordance with applicable title IV HEA program requirements, as determined from the records of the institution.

(ii) If the cash balances of the accounts at any time fall below the amount described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the institution is deemed to make any subsequent deposits into the accounts of funds derived from other sources with the intent to restore to that amount those Fund assets previously withdrawn from those accounts. To the extent that these institutional deposits restore the amount previously withdrawn, they are deemed to be Fund assets.
