
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 674.19 Fiscal procedures and records.
####### Manner of retention of promissory notes and repayment schedules.

(4)An institution shall keep the original promissory notes and repayment schedules until the loans are satisfied. If required to release original documents in order to enforce the loan, the institution must retain certified true copies of those documents.

(i) An institution shall keep the original paper promissory note or original paper MPN and repayment schedules in a locked, fireproof container.

(ii) If a promissory note was signed electronically, the institution must store it electronically and the promissory note must be retrievable in a coherent format. An original electronically signed MPN must be retained by the institution for 3 years after all the loans made on the MPN are satisfied.

(iii) After the loan obligation is satisfied, the institution shall return the original or a true and exact copy of the note marked "paid in full" to the borrower, or otherwise notify the borrower in writing that the loan is paid in full, and retain a copy for the prescribed period.

(iv) An institution shall maintain separately its records pertaining to cancellations of Defense, NDSL, and Federal Perkins Loans.

(v) Only authorized personnel may have access to the loan documents.
