
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Terms of Loans
###### ยง 674.33 Repayment.
####### Low-income individual.,low-income individual

(2)(i) For Federal Perkins loans and NDSLs made on or after October 1, 1980, the institution may extend the borrower's repayment period up to 10 additional years beyond the 10-year maximum repayment period if the institution determines during the course of the repayment period that the borrower is a "low-income individual." The borrower qualifies for an extension of the repayment period on the basis of low-income status only during the period in which the borrower meets the criteria described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) (A) or (B) of this section. The termmeans the following:

(A) For an unmarried borrower without dependents, an individual whose total income for the preceding calendar year did not exceed 45 percent of the Income Protection Allowance for the current award year for a family of four with one in college.

(B) For a borrower with a family that includes the borrower and any spouse or legal dependents, an individual whose total family income for the preceding calendar year did not exceed 125 percent of the Income Protection Allowance for the current award year for a family with one in college and equal in size to that of the borrower's family.

(ii) The institution shall use the Income Protection Allowance published annually in accordance with section 478 of the HEA in making this determination.

(iii) The institution shall review the borrower's status annually to determine whether the borrower continues to qualify for an extended repayment period based on his or her status as a "low-income individual."

(iv) Upon determining that a borrower ceases to qualify for an extended repayment period under this section, the institution shall amend the borrower's repayment schedule. The term of the amended repayment schedule may not exceed the number of months remaining on the original repayment schedule, provided that the institution may not include the time elapsed during any extension of the repayment period granted under this section in determining the number of months remaining on the original repayment schedule.

(3) Interest continues to accrue during any extension of a repayment period.
