
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Terms of Loans
###### § 674.37 Deferment of repayment - NDSLs made before October 1, 1980 and Defense loans.

(a) A borrower may defer repayment-

(1) On an NDSL made before October 1, 1980 during the periods described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section; and

(2) On a Defense loan, during the periods described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(b)(1) A borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, during a period after the commencement or resumption of the repayment period on a loan, when the borrower is at least a half-time regular student at-

(i) An institution of higher education; or

(ii) A comparable institution outside the U.S. approved by the Secretary for this purpose.

(2) The institution of higher education does not need to be participating in the Perkins Loan program for the borrower to qualify for a deferment.

(3) If a borrower is attending as at least a half-time regular student for a full academic year and intends to enroll as at least half-time regular student in the next academic year, the borrower is entitled to deferment for 12 months.

(4) If an institution no longer qualifies as an institution of higher education, the borrower's deferment ends on the date the institution ceases to qualify.

(c) A borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue for a period of up to 3 years during which time the borrower is-

(1) A member of the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard (see § 674.59);

(2) A Peace Corps volunteer (see § 674.60); or

(3) A volunteer under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (ACTION programs) (see § 674.60).

(d) The institution shall exclude the deferment periods described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (e) of this section when determining the 10-year repayment period.

(e) An institution may permit the borrower to defer payments of principal and interest, but interest shall continue to accrue, if the institution determines this is necessary to avoid hardship to the borrower (see § 674.33(c)).

(f) The institution may permit the borrower to defer payment of principal and interest, but interest shall continue to accrue, on a Defense loan for a total of 3 years after the commencement or resumption of the repayment period on a loan, during which he or she is attending an institution of higher education as a less-than-half-time regular student.
