
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Due Diligence
###### ยง 674.42 Contact with the borrower.
####### Disclosure of repayment information.

(a)The institution must disclose the following information in a written statement provided to the borrower either shortly before the borrower ceases at least half-time study at the institution or during the exit interview. If the borrower enters the repayment period without the institution's knowledge, the institution must provide the required disclosures to the borrower in writing immediately upon discovering that the borrower has entered the repayment period. The institution must disclose the following information:

(1) The name and address of the institution to which the debt is owed and the name and address of the official or servicing agent to whom communications should be sent.

(2) The name and address of the party to which payments should be sent.

(3) The estimated balance owed by the borrower on the date on which the repayment period is scheduled to begin.

(4) The stated interest rate on the loan.

(5) The repayment schedule for all loans covered by the disclosure including the date the first installment payment is due, and the number, amount, and frequency of required payments.

(6) An explanation of any special options the borrower may have for loan consolidation or other refinancing of the loan, and a statement that the borrower has the right to prepay all or part of the loan at any time without penalty.

(7) A description of the charges imposed for failure of the borrower to pay all or part of an installment when due.

(8) A description of any charges that may be imposed as a consequence of default, such as liability for expenses reasonably incurred in attempts by the Secretary or the institution to collect on the loan.

(9) The total interest charges which the borrower will pay on the loan pursuant to the projected repayment schedule.

(10) The contact information of a party who, upon request of the borrower, will provide the borrower with a copy of his or her signed promissory note.

(11) An explanation that if a borrower is required to make minimum monthly repayments, and the borrower has received loans from more than one institution, the borrower must notify the institution if he or she wants the minimum monthly payment determination to be based on payments due to other institutions.
