
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Due Diligence
###### ยง 674.42 Contact with the borrower.
####### Contact with the borrower during the initial and post deferment grace periods.

(c)(1)(i) For loans with a nine-month initial grace period (NDSLs made before October 1, 1980 and Federal Perkins loans), the institution shall contact the borrower three times within the initial grace period.

(ii) For loans with a six-month initial or post deferment grace period (loans not described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section), the institution shall contact the borrower twice during the grace period.

(2)(i) The institution shall contact the borrower for the first time 90 days after the commencement of any grace period. The institution shall at this time remind the borrower of his or her responsibility to comply with the terms of the loan and shall send the borrower the following information:

(A) The total amount remaining outstanding on the loan account, including principal and interest accruing over the remaining life of the loan.

(B) The date and amount of the next required payment.

(ii) The institution shall contact the borrower the second time 150 days after the commencement of any grace period. The institution shall at this time notify the borrower of the date and amount of the first required payment.

(iii) The institution shall contact a borrower with a nine-month initial grace period a third time 240 days after the commencement of the grace period, and shall then inform him or her of the date and amount of the first required payment.
