
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Due Diligence
###### § 674.47 Costs chargeable to the Fund.
####### Limitations on costs charged to the Fund.

(e)The institution may charge to the Fund the following collection costs waived under paragraph (d) of this section or not paid by the borrower:

(1) A reasonable amount for the cost of a successful address search required in § 674.44(b).

(2) Costs related to the use of credit bureaus as provided in § 674.45(b)(1).

(3) For first collection efforts pursuant to § 674.45(a)(2), an amount that does not exceed 30 percent of the amount of principal, interest and late charges collected.

(4) For second collection efforts pursuant to § 674.45(c)(1)(ii), an amount that does not exceed 40 percent of the amount of principal, interest and late charges collected.

(5) Until July 1, 2002 on loans rehabilitated pursuant to § 674.39, amounts that exceed the amounts specified in § 674.39(c)(1) but are less than-

(i) 30 percent if the loan was rehabilitated while in a first collection effort; or

(ii) 40 percent if the loan was rehabilitated while in a second collection effort.

(6) For collection costs resulting from litigation, including attorney's fees, an amount that does not exceed the sum of-

(i) Court costs specified in 28 U.S.C. 1920;

(ii) Other costs incurred in bankruptcy proceedings in taking actions required or authorized under § 674.49;

(iii) Costs of other actions in bankruptcy proceedings to the extent that those costs, together with costs described in paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section, do not exceed 40 percent of the total amount of judgment obtained on the loan; and

(iv) 40 percent of the total amount recovered from the borrower in any other proceeding.

(7) If a collection firm agrees to perform or obtain the performance of both collection and litigation services on a loan, an amount for both functions that does not exceed the sum of 40 percent of the amount of principal, interest and late charges collected on the loan, plus court costs specified in 28 U.S.C. 1920.
