
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Due Diligence
###### ยง 674.49 Bankruptcy of borrower.
####### Borrower's request for determination of dischargeability.

(c)(1) The institution must use due diligence and may assert any defense consistent with its status under applicable law to avoid discharge of the loan. The institution must follow the procedures in this paragraph to respond to a complaint for a determination of dischargeability under 11 U.S.C. 523(a)(8) on the ground that repayment of the loan would impose an undue hardship on the borrower and his or her dependents, unless discharge would be more effectively opposed by avoiding that action.

(2) If the petition for relief in bankruptcy was filed before October 8, 1998 and more than seven years of the repayment period on the loan (excluding any applicable suspension of the repayment period defined in 34 CFR 682.402(m)) have passed before the borrower filed the petition, the institution may not oppose a determination of dischargeability requested under 11 U.S.C. 523(a)(8)(B) on the ground of undue hardship.

(3) In any other case, the institution must determine, on the basis of reasonably available information, whether repayment of the loan under either the current repayment schedule or any adjusted schedule authorized under subpart B or D of this part would impose an undue hardship on the borrower and his or her dependents.

(4) If the institution concludes that repayment would not impose an undue hardship, the institution shall determine whether the costs reasonably expected to be incurred to oppose discharge will exceed one-third of the total amount owed on the loan, including principal, interest, late charges and collection costs.

(5) If the expected costs of opposing discharge of such a loan do not exceed one-third of the total amount owed on the loan, the institution shall-

(i) Oppose the borrower's request for a determination of dischargeability; and

(ii) If the borrower is in default on the loan, seek a judgment for the amount owed on the loan.

(6) In opposing a request for a determination of dischargeability, the institution may compromise a portion of the amount owed on the loan if it reasonably determines that the compromise is necessary in order to obtain a judgment on the loan.
