
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Due Diligence
###### ยง 674.49 Bankruptcy of borrower.
####### Chapter 13 repayment plan.

(e)(1) The institution shall follow the procedures in this paragraph in response to a repayment plan proposed by a borrower who has filed for relief under chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code.

(2) The institution is not required to respond to a proposed repayment plan, if-

(i) The borrower proposes under the repayment plan to repay all principal, interest, late charges and collection costs on the loan; or

(ii) The repayment plan makes no provision with regard either to the loan obligation or to general unsecured claims.

(3)(i) If the borrower proposes under the repayment plan to repay less than the total amount owed on the loan, the institution shall determine from its own records and court documents-

(A) The amount of the loan obligation dischargeable under the plan by deducting the total payments on the loan proposed under the plan from the total amount owed;

(B) Whether the plan or the classification of the loan obligation under the proposed plan meets the requirements of section 1325 of the Code; and

(C) Whether grounds exist under 11 U.S.C. 1307 to move for conversion or dismissal of the chapter 13 case.

(ii) If the institution reasonably expects that costs of the appropriate actions will not exceed one-third of the dischargeable loan debt, the institution shall-

(A) Object to confirmation of a proposed plan that does not meet the requirements of 11 U.S.C. 1325; and

(B) Move to dismiss or convert a case where grounds can be established under 11 U.S.C. 1307.

(4)(i) The institution must monitor the borrower's compliance with the requirements of the plan confirmed by the court. If the institution determines that the debtor has not made the payments required under the plan, or has filed a request for a "hardship discharge" under 11 U.S.C. 1328(b), the institution must determine from its own records and information derived from documents filed with the court-

(A) Whether grounds exist under 11 U.S.C. 1307 to convert or dismiss the case; and

(B) Whether the borrower has demonstrated entitlement to the "hardship discharge" by meeting the requirements of 11 U.S.C. 1328(b).

(ii) If the institution reasonably expects that costs of the appropriate actions, when added to the costs already incurred in taking actions authorized under this section, will not exceed one-third of the dischargeable loan debt, the institution shall-

(A) Move to dismiss or convert a case where grounds can be established under 11 U.S.C. 1307; or

(B) Oppose the requested discharge where the debtor has not demonstrated that the requirements of 11 U.S.C. 1328(b) are met.
