
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Loan Cancellation
###### ยง 674.53 Teacher cancellation - Federal Perkins, NDSL and Defense loans.
####### Cancellation for full-time teaching in an elementary or secondary school serving low-income students.

(a)(1)(i) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding loan balance on a Federal Perkins loan or an NDSL made on or after July 23, 1992, for full-time teaching in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school.

(ii) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding loan balance on a Federal Perkins, NDSL or Defense loan made prior to July 23, 1992, for teaching service performed on or after October 7, 1998, if the cancellation benefits provided under this section are not included in the terms of the borrower's promissory note.

(iii) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance of a Federal Perkins, NDSL, or Defense loan for teaching service that includes August 14, 2008, or begins on or after that date, at an educational service agency.

(2) The borrower must be teaching full-time in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school that-

(i) Is in a school district that qualified for funds, in that year, under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; and

(ii) Has been selected by the Secretary based on a determination that more than 30 percent of the school's or educational service agency's total enrollment is made up of title I children.

(3) For each academic year, the Secretary notifies participating institutions of the schools and educational service agencies selected under paragraph (a) of this section.

(4)(i) The Secretary selects schools and educational service agencies under paragraph (a)(1) of this section based on a ranking by the State education agency.

(ii) The State education agency must base its ranking of the schools and educational service agencies on objective standards and methods. These standards must take into account the numbers and percentages of title I children attending those schools and educational service agencies.

(5) The Secretary considers all elementary and secondary schools operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or operated on Indian reservations by Indian tribal groups under contract with BIA to qualify as schools serving low-income students.

(6) A teacher, who performs service in a school or educational service agency that meets the requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section in any year and in a subsequent year fails to meet these requirements, may continue to teach in that school or educational service agency and will be eligible for loan cancellation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section in subsequent years.

(7) If a list of eligible institutions in which a teacher performs services under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not available before May 1 of any year, the Secretary may use the list for the year preceding the year for which the determination is made to make the service determination.
