
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Loan Cancellation
###### ยง 674.55 Teacher cancellation - Defense loans.
####### Cancellation for full-time teaching in an elementary or secondary school serving low-income students.

(b)(1) The institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Defense loan for full-time teaching in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school that-

(i) Is in a school district that qualifies for funds in that year under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; and

(ii) Has been selected by the Secretary based on a determination that a high concentration of students enrolled at the school are from low-income families.

(2)(i) The Secretary selects schools under paragraph (b)(1) of this section based on a ranking by the State education agency.

(ii) The State education agency shall base its ranking of the schools on objective standards and methods. These standards must take into account the numbers and percentages of title I children attending those schools.

(3) The Secretary considers all elementary and secondary schools operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or operated on Indian reservations by Indian tribal groups under contract with BIA to qualify as schools serving low-income students.

(4) For each academic year, the Secretary notifies participating institutions of the schools selected under paragraph (b) of this section.

(5) The cancellation rate is 15 percent of the original principal loan amount, plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for each complete academic year, or its equivalent, of full-time teaching.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Cancellation for full-time teaching under paragraph (b) of this section is available only for teaching beginning with academic year 1966-67.
