
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Loan Cancellation
###### ยง 674.58 Cancellation for service in an early childhood education program.

(a)(1) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's NDSL or Federal Perkins loan, for service as a full-time staff member in a Head Start program.

(2) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a Defense loan for service as a full-time staff member in a Head Start program performed on or after October 7, 1998, if the cancellation benefits provided under this section are not included in the terms of the borrower's promissory note.

(3) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance of a borrower's NDSL, Defense, or Federal Perkins loan for service that includes August 14, 2008, or begins on or after that date, as a full-time staff member of a pre-kindergarten or childcare program that is licensed or regulated by the State.

(4) The Head Start, pre-kindergarten or child care program in which the borrower serves must operate for a complete academic year, or its equivalent.

(5) In order to qualify for cancellation, the borrower's salary may not exceed the salary of a comparable employee working in the local educational agency of the area served by the local Head Start, pre-kindergarten or child care program.

(b) The cancellation rate is 15 percent of the original loan principal, plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for each complete academic year, or its equivalent, of full-time teaching service.

(c)(1) "Head Start" is a preschool program carried out under the Head Start Act (subchapter B, chapter 8 of title VI of Pub. L. 97-35, the Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, as amended; formerly authorized under section 222(a)(1) of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964). (42 U.S.C. 2809 (a) (1))

(2) A pre-kindergarten program is a State-funded program that serves children from birth through age six and addresses the children's cognitive (including language, early literacy, and early mathematics), social, emotional, and physical development.

(3) A child care program is a program that is licensed or regulated by the State and provides child care services for fewer than 24 hours per day per child, unless care in excess of 24 consecutive hours is needed due to the nature of the parents' work.

(4) "Full-time staff member" is a person regularly employed in a full-time professional capacity to carry out the educational part of a Head Start, pre-kindergarten or child care program.
