
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 674 - FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Loan Cancellation
###### ยง 674.61 Discharge for death or disability.
####### Discharge application process for veterans who have a total and permanent disability as defined in ยง 674.51(aa)(2).

(2)(i) If a veteran notifies the institution that the veteran claims to be totally and permanently disabled as defined in ยง 674.51(aa)(2), the institution must direct the veteran to notify the Secretary of the veteran's intent to submit an application for a total and permanent disability discharge to the Secretary; and provide the veteran with the information needed for the veteran to apply for a total and permanent disability discharge to the Secretary.

(ii) If the veteran notifies the Secretary of the veteran's intent to apply for a total and permanent disability discharge, the Secretary-

(A) Provides the veteran with information needed for the veteran to apply for a total and permanent disability discharge;

(B) Identifies all title IV loans owed by the veteran and notifies the lenders of the veteran's intent to apply for a total and permanent disability discharge;

(C) Directs the lenders to suspend efforts to collect from the borrower for a period not to exceed 120 days; and

(D) Informs the veteran that the suspension of collection activity described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section will end after 120 days and collection will resume on the veteran's title IV loans if the veteran does not submit a total and permanent disability discharge application to the Secretary within that time.

(iii) If the veteran fails to submit an application for a total and permanent disability discharge to the Secretary within 120 days, collection resumes on the veteran's title IV loans.

(iv) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the veteran must submit to the Secretary an application for total and permanent disability discharge on a form approved by the Secretary.

(v) The application must be accompanied by documentation from the Department of Veteran Affairs showing that the Department of Veteran Affairs has determined that the veteran is unemployable due to a service-connected disability. The veteran will not be required to provide any additional documentation related to the veteran's disability.

(vi) After the Secretary receives the application and supporting documentation described in paragraphs (c)(2)(iv) and (c)(2)(v) of this section, the Secretary notifies the holders of the veteran's title IV loans that the Secretary has received a total and permanent disability discharge application from the veteran.

(vii) If the application is incomplete, the Secretary notifies the veteran of the missing information and requests the missing information from the veteran or the veteran's representative. The Secretary does not make a determination of eligibility until the application is complete.

(viii) The lender notification described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section directs the lenders to suspend collection activity or maintain the suspension of collection activity on the borrower's title IV loans.

(ix) After the Secretary receives the disability discharge application, the Secretary sends a notice to the veteran that-

(A) States that the application will be reviewed by the Secretary;

(B) Informs the veteran that the veteran's lenders will suspend collection activity on the veteran's title IV loans while the Secretary reviews the borrower's application for a discharge; and

(C) Explains the process for the Secretary's review of total and permanent disability discharge applications.
