
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 675-FEDERAL WORK-STUDY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A-Federal Work-Study Program
###### ยง 675.16 Payments to students.
####### General.

(a)(1) An institution must follow the disbursement procedures in this section for paying a student his or her wages under the FWS Program instead of the disbursement procedures in 34 CFR 668.164(a), (b), and (d) through (g), and 34 CFR 668.165. The institution must follow 34 CFR 668.164(c) on making direct FWS payments to students and 34 CFR 668.164(h) on handling the return of FWS funds that are not received or negotiated by a student.

(2) An institution must pay a student FWS compensation at least once a month.

(3) Before an institution makes an initial disbursement of FWS compensation to a student for an award period, the institution must notify the student of the amount of funds the student is authorized to earn, and how and when the FWS compensation will be paid.

(4) Regardless of who employs the student, the institution is responsible for ensuring that the student is paid for work performed.

(5) A student's FWS compensation is earned when the student performs the work.

(6) An institution may pay a student after the student's last day of attendance for FWS compensation earned while he or she was in attendance at the institution.

(7) A correspondence student must submit his or her first completed lesson before receiving a payment.

(8) The institution may not obtain a student's power of attorney to authorize any disbursement of funds without prior approval from the Secretary.

(9) An institution makes a disbursement of FWS program funds on the date that the institution credits a student's account at the institution or pays a student directly with-

(i) Funds received from the Secretary; or

(ii) Institutional funds used in advance of receiving FWS program funds.
