
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 675-FEDERAL WORK-STUDY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A-Federal Work-Study Program
###### ยง 675.16 Payments to students.
####### Student authorizations.

(d)(1) Except for the noncash contributions allowed under paragraph (e)(2) and (3) of this section, if an institution obtains written authorization from a student, the institution may-

(i) Use the student's FWS compensation to pay for charges described in paragraph (b) of this section that are included in that authorization; and

(ii) Except if prohibited by the Secretary under the reimbursement or cash monitoring payment method, hold on behalf of the student any FWS compensation that would otherwise be paid directly to the student under paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) In obtaining the student's authorization to perform an activity described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an institution-

(i) May not require or coerce the student to provide that authorization;

(ii) Must allow the student to cancel or modify that authorization at any time; and

(iii) Must clearly explain how it will carry out that activity.

(3) A student may authorize an institution to carry out the activities described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section for the period during which the student is enrolled at the institution.

(4)(i) If a student modifies an authorization, the modification takes effect on the date the institution receives the modification notice.

(ii) If a student cancels an authorization to use his or her FWS compensation to pay for authorized charges under paragraph (b) of this section, the institution may use those funds to pay only those authorized charges incurred by the student before the institution received the notice.

(iii) If a student cancels an authorization to hold his or her FWS compensation under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the institution must pay those funds directly to the student as soon as possible, but no later than 14 days after the institution receives that notice.

(5) If an institution holds excess FWS compensation under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the institution must-

(i) Identify the amount of funds the institution holds for each student in a subsidiary ledger account designed for that purpose;

(ii) Maintain, at all times, cash in its bank account in an amount at least equal to the amount of FWS compensation the institution holds for the student; and

(iii) Notwithstanding any authorization obtained by the institution under this paragraph, pay any remaining balances by the end of the institution's final FWS payroll period for an award year.
