
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 675-FEDERAL WORK-STUDY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A-Federal Work-Study Program
###### ยง 675.20 Eligible employers and general conditions and limitation on employment.
####### Agreement between institution and organization.

(b)(1) If an institution wishes to have its students employed under this part by a Federal, State or local public agency, or a private nonprofit or for-profit organization, it shall enter into a written agreement with that agency or organization. The agreement must set forth the FWS work conditions. The agreement must indicate whether the institution or the agency or organization shall pay the students employed, except that the agreement between an institution and a for-profit organization must require the employer to pay the non-Federal share of the student earnings.

(2) The institution may enter into an agreement with an agency or organization that has professional direction and staff.

(3) The institution is responsible for ensuring that-

(i) Payment for work performed under each agreement is properly documented; and

(ii) Each student's work is properly supervised.

(4) The agreement between the institution and the employing agency or nonprofit organization may require the employer to pay-

(i) The non-Federal share of the student earnings; and

(ii) Required employer costs such as the employer's share of social security or workers' compensation.
