
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 675-FEDERAL WORK-STUDY PROGRAMS
##### Subpart C-Work-Colleges Program
###### ยง 675.45 Allowable costs, Federal share, and institutional share.
####### Allowable costs.

(a)An institution participating in the Work-Colleges program may use its allocated and reallocated program funds to carry out the following activities:

(1) Support the educational costs of qualified students through self-help payments or credits provided under the work-learning-service program within the limits of part F of title IV of the HEA.

(2) Promote the work-learning-service experience as a tool of postsecondary education, financial self-help, and community service-learning opportunities.

(3) Carry out activities in sections 443 or 446 of the HEA.

(4) Administer, develop, and assess comprehensive work-learning-service programs including-

(i) Community-based work-learning-service alternatives that expand opportunities for community service and career-related work; and

(ii) Alternatives that develop sound citizenship, encourage student persistence, and make optimum use of assistance under the Work-Colleges program in education and student development.

(5) Coordinate and carry out joint projects and activities to promote work-learning-service.

(6) Carry out a comprehensive, longitudinal study of student academic progress and academic and career outcomes, relative to student self-sufficiency in financing their higher education, repayment of student loans, continued community service, kind and quality of service performed, and career choice and community service selected after graduation.
