
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - The Borrower
###### ยง 681.5 Who is an eligible student borrower?

To receive a HEAL loan, a student must satisfy the following requirements:

(a) He or she must be a citizen, national, or lawful permanent resident of the United States, permanent resident of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (the Republic of Palau), the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa, or lawful permanent resident of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or Guam;

(b) He or she must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment at a HEAL school in a course of study that leads to one of the following degrees:

(1) Doctor of Medicine.

(2) Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine.

(3) Doctor of Dentistry or equivalent degree.

(4) Doctor of Veterinary Medicine or equivalent degree.

(5) Doctor of Optometry or equivalent degree.

(6) Doctor of Podiatric Medicine or equivalent degree.

(7) Bachelor or Master of Science in Pharmacy or equivalent degree.

(8) Graduate or equivalent degree in Public Health.

(9) Doctor of Chiropractic or equivalent degree.

(10) Doctoral degree in Clinical Psychology.

(11) Masters or doctoral degree in Health Administration.

(c) He or she must be carrying or plan to carry, during the period for which the loan is intended, the normal work load of a full-time student, as determined by the school. The student's work load may include any combination of courses, work experience, research or special studies that the school considers sufficient to classify the student as full time.

(d) If currently enrolled in school, he or she must be in good standing, as determined by the school.

(e)(1) In the case of a pharmacy student, he or she must have satisfactorily completed 3 years of training toward the pharmacy degree. These 3 years of training may have been taken at the pharmacy school or at a different school whose credits are accepted on transfer by the pharmacy school.

(2) The Doctor of Pharmacy degree is considered to be an equivalent degree if it is taken in a school that does not require the Bachelor or Master of Science in pharmacy as a prerequisite for the Doctor of Pharmacy degree.

(f) In the case of a medical, dental or osteopathic student enrolled in a 6-year program that the student may enter directly from secondary school, the student must be enrolled in the last 4 years of the program.

(g) He or she must agree that all funds received under the proposed loan will be used solely for tuition, other reasonable educational expenses, including fees, books, supplies and equipment, and laboratory expenses, reasonable living expenses, reasonable transportation costs (only to the extent that they are directly related to the borrower's education), and the HEAL insurance premium.

(h) He or she must require the loan to pursue the course of study at the school. This determination of the maximum amount of the loan will be made by the school, applying the considerations in ยง 681.51(f).

(i) If required under section 3 of the Military Selective Service Act to present himself for and submit to registration under such section, he must have presented himself and submitted to registration under such section.
