
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - The Loan
###### ยง 681.10 How much can be borrowed?
####### Student borrower.

(a)An eligible student may borrow an amount to be used solely for expenses, as described in ยง 681.5(g), incurred or to be incurred over a period of up to an academic year and disbursed in accordance with ยง 681.33(f). The maximum amount he or she may receive for that period shall be determined by the school in accordance with ยง 681.51(f) within the following limitations:

(1) A student enrolled in a school of medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry or podiatric medicine may borrow up to $80,000 under this part. The amount received may not exceed $20,000 in any academic year.

(2) A student enrolled in a school of public health, pharmacy, or chiropractic, or a graduate program in health administration, clinical psychology, or allied health, may borrow up to $50,000 under this part. The amount received may not exceed $12,500 per academic year.

(3) For purposes of this paragraph, an academic year means the traditional approximately 9-month September-to-June annual session. For the purpose of computing academic year equivalents for students who, during a 12-month period, attend for a longer period than the traditional academic year, the academic year will be considered to be 9 months in length.

(4) The student's estimated cost of attendance shall not exceed the estimated cost of attendance of all students in like circumstances pursuing a similar curriculum at that school.
