
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - The Loan
###### § 681.11 Terms of repayment.
####### Supplemental repayment agreement.

(f)(1) A lender or holder and a borrower may enter into an agreement supplementing the regular repayment schedule agreement. Under a supplemental repayment agreement, the lender or holder agrees to consider that the borrower has met the terms of the regular repayment schedule as long as the borrower makes payments in accordance with the supplemental schedule.

(2) The purpose of a supplemental repayment agreement is to permit a lender or holder, at its option, to offer a borrower a repayment schedule based on other than equal or graduated payments. (For example, a supplemental repayment agreement may base the amount of the borrower's payments on his or her income.)

(3) The supplemental schedule must contain terms which, according to the Secretary, do not unduly burden the borrower and do not extend the Secretary's insurance liability beyond the number of years specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The supplemental schedule must be approved by the Secretary prior to the start of repayment.

(4) The lender or holder may establish a supplemental repayment agreement over the borrower's objection only if the borrower's written consent to enter into a supplemental agreement was obtained by the lender at the time the loan was made.

(5) A lender or holder may assign a loan subject to a supplemental repayment agreement only if it specifically notifies the buyer of the terms of the supplemental agreement. In such cases, the loan and the supplemental agreement must be assigned together.

(6) As authorized by section 525 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014, any repayment plan available under part B of title IV of the HEA (the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP)) is available for servicing, collecting, or enforcing HEAL loans. Such repayment plans are set forth in 34 CFR part 682, and in particular in §§ 682.102, 682.209, and 682.215.
