
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - The Loan
###### ยง 681.12 Deferment.
####### e.g.,

(c)(1) To receive a deferment, including a deferral of the onset of the repayment period (see ยง 681.11(a)), a borrower must at least 30 days prior to, but not more than 60 days prior to, the onset of the activity and annually thereafter, submit to the lender or holder evidence of his or her status in the deferment activity and evidence that verifies deferment eligibility of the activity (with the full expectation that the borrower will begin the activity). It is the responsibility of the borrower to provide the lender or holder with all required information or other information regarding the requested deferment. If written evidence that verifies eligibility of the activity and the borrower for the deferment, including a certification from an authorized official (the director of the fellowship activity, the dean of the school, etc.), is received by the lender or holder within the required time limit, the lender or holder must approve the deferment. The lender or holder may rely in good faith upon statements of the borrower and the authorized official, except where those statements or other information conflict with information available to the lender or holder. When those verification statements or other information conflict with information available to the lender or holder, to indicate that the applicant fails to meet the requirements for deferment, the lender or holder may not approve the deferment until those conflicts are resolved.

(2) For those activities described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the borrower may request that the Secretary review a decision by the lender or holder denying the deferment by sending to the Secretary copies of the application for deferment and the lender's or holder's denial of the request. However, if information submitted to the lender or holder conflicts with other information available to the lender or holder, to indicate that the borrower fails to meet the requirements for deferment, the borrower may not request a review until such conflicts have been resolved. During the review process, the lender or holder must comply with any requests for information made by the Secretary. If the Secretary determines that the fellowship or educational activity is eligible for deferment and so notifies the lender or holder, the lender or holder must approve the deferment.
