
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - The Loan
###### ยง 681.13 Interest.
####### Rate.

(a)At the lender's option, the interest rate on the HEAL loan may be calculated on a fixed rate or on a variable rate basis. However, whichever method is selected must continue over the life of the loan, except where the loan is consolidated with another HEAL loan.

(1) For all loans made on or after October 22, 1985, for each calendar quarter, the Secretary determines the maximum annual HEAL interest rate by determining the average of the bond equivalent rates reported for the 91-day U.S. Treasury bills auctioned for the preceding calendar quarter, adding 3 percentage points, and rounding that amount to the next higher one-eighth of 1 percent.

(2) Interest that is calculated on a fixed rate basis is determined for the life of the loan during the calendar quarter in which the loan is executed. It may not exceed the rate determined for that quarter by the Secretary under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) Interest that is calculated on a variable rate basis varies every calendar quarter throughout the life of the loan as the market price of U.S. Treasury bills changes. For any quarter it may not exceed the rate determined by the Secretary under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
