
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - The Loan
###### ยง 681.14 The insurance premium.
####### General.

(a)(1) The Secretary insures each lender or holder for the losses of principal and interest it may incur in the event that a borrower dies; becomes totally and permanently disabled; files for bankruptcy under chapter 11 or 13 of the Bankruptcy Act; files for bankruptcy under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act and files a complaint to determine the dischargeability of the HEAL loan; or defaults on his or her loan. For this insurance, the Secretary charges the lender an insurance premium. The insurance premium is due to the Secretary on the date of disbursement of the HEAL loan.

(2) The lender may charge the borrower an amount equal to the cost of the insurance premium. The cost of the insurance premium may be charged to the borrower by the lender in the form of a one-time special charge with no subsequent adjustments required. The lender may bill the borrower separately for the insurance premium or may deduct an amount attributable to it from the loan proceeds before the loan is disbursed. In either case, the lender must clearly identify to the borrower the amount of the insurance premium and the method of calculation.

(3) If the lender does not pay the insurance premium on or before 30 days after disbursement of the loan, a late fee will be charged on a daily basis at the same rate as the interest rate that the lender charges for the HEAL loan for which the insurance premium is past due. The lender may not pass on this late fee to the borrower.

(4) HEAL insurance coverage ceases to be effective if the insurance premium is not paid within 60 days of the disbursement of the loan.

(5) Except in cases of error, premiums are not refundable by the Secretary, and need not be refunded by the lender to the borrower, even if the borrower graduates or withdraws from the school, defaults, dies or becomes totally and permanently disabled.
