
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - The Lender and Holder
###### ยง 681.33 Making a HEAL loan.
####### Lender determination of the borrower's creditworthiness.

(c)The lender may make HEAL loans only to an applicant that the lender has determined to be creditworthy. This determination must be made at least once for each academic year during which the applicant applies for a HEAL loan. An applicant will be determined to be "creditworthy" if he or she has a repayment history that has been satisfactory on any loans on which payments have become due. The lender may not determine that an applicant is creditworthy if the applicant is currently in default on any loan (commercial, consumer, or educational) until the delinquent account is made current or satisfactory arrangements are made between the affected lender(s) and the HEAL applicant. The lender must obtain documentation, such as a letter from the authorized official(s) of the affected lender(s) or a corrected credit report indicating that the HEAL applicant has taken satisfactory actions to bring the account into good standing. It is the responsibility of the HEAL loan applicant to assure that the lender receives each such documentation. No loan may be made to an applicant who is delinquent on any Federal debt until the delinquent account is made current or satisfactory arrangements are made between the affected agency and the HEAL applicant. The lender must receive a letter from the authorized Federal official of the affected Federal agency stating that the borrower has taken satisfactory actions to bring the account into good standing. It is the responsibility of the loan applicant to assure that the lender has received each such letter. The absence of any previous credit, however, is not an indication that the applicant is not creditworthy and is not to be used as a reason to deny the status of creditworthy to an applicant. The lender must determine the creditworthiness of the applicant using, at a minimum, the following:

(1) A report of the applicant's credit history obtained from an appropriate consumer credit reporting agency, which must be used in making the determinations required by paragraph (c) of this section; and

(2) For student applicants only, the certification made by the applicant's school under ยง 681.51(e).
