
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - The Lender and Holder
###### ยง 681.33 Making a HEAL loan.
####### Disbursement of HEAL loan.

(f)(1) A lender must disburse HEAL loan proceeds:

(i) To a student borrower, by means of a check or draft payable jointly to the student borrower and the HEAL school. Except where a lender is also a school, a lender must mail the check or draft to the school. A lender may not disburse the loan proceeds earlier than is reasonably necessary to meet the cost of education for the period for which the loan is made.

(ii) To a nonstudent borrower, by means of a check or draft payable to the borrower. However, when a previous loan is held by a different lender, the current lender must make the HEAL loan disbursement check or draft payable jointly to the borrower and the holder of the previous HEAL loan for which interest is payable.

(2) Effective July 1, 1987, a lender must disburse the HEAL loan proceeds in two or more installments unless the loan is intended to cover a period of no more than one-half an academic year. The amount disbursed at one time must correspond to the borrower's educational expenses for the period for which the disbursement is made, and must be indicated by the school on the borrower's application. If the loan is intended for more than one-half an academic year, the school must indicate on the borrower's application both the approximate dates of disbursement and the amount the borrower will need on each such date. In no case may the lender disburse the proceeds earlier than is reasonably necessary to meet the costs of education for the period for which the disbursement or the loan is made.

(g) If the lender determines that the applicant is not creditworthy, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the lender must not approve the HEAL loan request. If the applicant is a student, the lender must notify the applicant and the applicant's school named on the application form of the denial of a HEAL loan, stating the reason for the denial.

(h) The lender must report a borrower's HEAL indebtedness to one or more national credit bureaus within 120 days of the date the final disbursement on the loan is made.
