
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - The Lender and Holder
###### ยง 681.35 HEAL loan collection.

A lender or holder must exercise due diligence in the collection of a HEAL loan with respect to both a borrower and any endorser. In order to exercise due diligence, a lender or holder must implement the following procedures when a borrower fails to honor his or her payment obligations:

(a) When a borrower is delinquent in making a payment, the lender or holder must remind the borrower within 15 days of the date the payment was due by means of a written contact. If payments do not resume, the lender or holder must contact both the borrower and any endorser at least 3 more times at regular intervals during the 120-day delinquent period following the first missed payment of that 120-day period. The second demand notice for a delinquent account must inform the borrower that the continued delinquent status of the account will be reported to consumer credit reporting agencies if payment is not made. Each of the required four contacts must consist of at least a written contact which has an address correction request on the envelope. The last contact must consist of a telephone contact, in addition to the required letter, unless the borrower cannot be contacted by telephone. The lender or holder may choose to substitute a personal contact for a telephone contact. A record must be made of each attempt to contact and each actual contact, and that record must be placed in the borrower's file. Each contact must become progressively firmer in tone. If the lender or holder is unable to locate the borrower and any endorser at any time during the period when the borrower is delinquent, the lender or holder must initiate the skip-tracing procedures described in ยง 681.34(d).

(b) When a borrower is 90 days delinquent in making a payment, the lender or holder must immediately request preclaim assistance from the Department's servicer. The Secretary does not pay a default claim if the lender or holder fails to request preclaim assistance.

(c) Prior to the filing of a default claim, a lender or holder must use, at a minimum, collection practices that are at least as extensive and effective as those used by the lender or holder in the collection of its other loans. These practices must include, but need not be limited to:

(1) Using collection agents, which may include its own collection department or other internal collection agents;

(2) Immediately notifying an appropriate consumer credit reporting agency regarding accounts overdue by more than 60 days; and

(3) Commencing and prosecuting an action for default unless:

(i) In the determination of the Secretary that:

(A) The lender or holder has made reasonable efforts to serve process on the borrower involved and has been unsuccessful in these efforts; or

(B) Prosecution of such an action would be fruitless because of the financial or other circumstances of the borrower;

(ii) For loans made before November 4, 1988, the loan involved was made in an amount of less than $5,000; or

(iii) For loans made on or after November 4, 1988, the loan involved was made in an amount of less than $2,500.

(d) If the Secretary's preclaim assistance locates the borrower, the lender or holder must implement the loan collection procedures described in this section. When the Secretary's preclaim assistance is unable to locate the borrower, a default claim may be filed by the lender as described in ยง 681.40. The Secretary does not pay a default claim if the lender or holder has not complied with the HEAL statute and regulations or the lender's or holder's insurance contract.

(e) If a lender or holder does not sue the borrower, it must send a final demand letter to the borrower and any endorser at least 30 days before a default claim is filed.

(f) If a lender or holder sues a defaulted borrower or endorser, it may first apply the proceeds of any judgment against its reasonable attorney's fees and court costs, whether or not the judgment provides for these fees and costs.
