
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - The Lender and Holder
###### ยง 681.35 HEAL loan collection.
####### Collection of chapter 7 bankruptcies.

(g)(1) If a borrower files for bankruptcy under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act and does not file a complaint to determine the dischargeability of the HEAL loan, the lender or holder is responsible for monitoring the bankruptcy case in order to pursue collection of the loan after the bankruptcy proceedings have been completed.

(i) For any loan for which the lender or holder had not begun to litigate against the borrower prior to the imposition of the automatic stay, the period of the automatic stay is to be considered as an extended forbearance authorized by the Secretary, in addition to the 2-year period of forbearance which lenders and holders are authorized to grant without prior approval from the Secretary. Only periods of delinquency following the date of receipt (as documented by a date stamp) of the discharge of debtor notice (or other written notification from the court or the borrower's attorney of the end of the automatic stay imposed by the Bankruptcy Court) can be included in determining default, as described in ยง 681.40(c)(1)(i). The lender or holder must attempt to reestablish repayment terms with the borrower in writing no more than 30 days after receipt of the discharge of debtor notice (or other written notification from the court or the borrower's attorney of the end of the automatic stay imposed by the Bankruptcy Court), in accordance with the procedures followed at the end of a forbearance period. If the borrower fails to make a payment as scheduled, the lender or holder must attempt to obtain repayment through written and telephone contacts in accordance with the intervals established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and must perform the other HEAL loan collection activities required in this section, before filing a default claim.

(ii) For any loan for which the lender or holder had begun to litigate against the borrower prior to the imposition of the automatic stay, the lender or holder must, upon written notification from the court or the borrower's attorney that the bankruptcy proceedings have been completed, either resume litigation or treat the loan in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) If the lender or holder has not received written notification of discharge within 12 months of the date that the borrower filed for bankruptcy, the lender or holder must contact the court and the borrower's attorney (if known) within 30 days to determine if the bankruptcy proceedings have been completed. If no response is received within 30 days of the date of these contacts, the lender or holder must resume its collection efforts, in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If a written response from the court or the borrower's attorney indicates that the bankruptcy proceedings are still underway, the lender or holder is not to pursue further collection efforts until receipt of written notice of discharge, except that follow-up in accordance with this paragraph must be done at least once every 12 months until the bankruptcy proceedings have been completed. A lender or holder may utilize PACER (Public Access to Court Electronic Records) in place of contact with the court and/or borrower's attorney.
