
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - The Lender and Holder
###### ยง 681.37 Forbearance.
####### Forbearance

(a)means an extension of time for making loan payments or the acceptance of smaller payments than were previously scheduled to prevent a borrower from defaulting on his or her payment obligations. A lender or holder must notify each borrower of the right to request forbearance.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a lender or holder must grant forbearance whenever the borrower is temporarily unable to make scheduled payments on a HEAL loan and the borrower continues to repay the loan in an amount commensurate with his or her ability to repay the loan. Any circumstance which affects the borrower's ability to repay the loan must be fully documented.

(2) If the lender or holder determines that the default of the borrower is inevitable and that forbearance will be ineffective in preventing default, the lender or holder may submit a claim to the Secretary rather than grant forbearance. If the Secretary is not in agreement with the determination of the lender or holder, the claim will be returned to the lender or holder as disapproved and forbearance must be granted.

(b) A lender or holder must exercise forbearance in accordance with terms that are consistent with the 25- and 33-year limitations on the length of repayment (described in ยง 681.11) if the lender or holder and borrower agree in writing to the new terms. Each forbearance period may not exceed 6 months.

(c) A lender or holder may also exercise forbearance for periods of up to 6 months in accordance with terms that are inconsistent with the minimum annual payment requirement if the lender or holder complies with the requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. Subsequent renewals of the forbearance must also be documented in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) The lender or holder must reasonably believe that the borrower intends to repay the loan but is currently unable to make payments in accordance with the terms of the loan note. The lender or holder must state the basis for its belief in writing and maintain that statement in its loan file on that borrower.

(2) Both the borrower and an authorized official of the lender or holder must sign a written agreement of forbearance.

(3) If the agreement between the borrower and lender or holder provides for forbearance of all payments, the lender or holder must contact the borrower at least every 3 months during the period of forbearance in order to remind the borrower of the outstanding obligation to repay.

(4) The total period of forbearance (with or without interruption) granted by the lender or holder to any borrower must not exceed 2 years. However, when the borrower and the lender or holder believe that there are bona fide reasons why this period should be extended, the lender or holder may request a reasonable extension beyond the 2-year period from the Secretary. This request must document the reasons why the extension should be granted. The lender or holder may grant the extension for the approved time period if the Secretary approves the extension request.
