
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - The Lender and Holder
###### ยง 681.40 Procedures for filing claims.

(a) A lender or holder must file an insurance claim on a form approved by the Secretary. The lender or holder must attach to the claim all documentation necessary to litigate a default, including any documents required to be submitted by the Federal Claims Collection Standards, and which the Secretary may require. Failure to submit the required documentation and to comply with the HEAL statute and regulations or the lender's or holder's insurance contract will result in a claim not being honored. The Secretary may deny a claim that is not filed within the period specified in this section. The Secretary requires for all claims at least the following documentation:

(1) The original promissory note;

(2) An assignment to the United States of America of all right, title, and interest of the lender or holder in the note;

(3) The loan application;

(4) The history of the loan activities from the date of loan disbursement through the date of claim, including any payments made; and

(5) A Borrower Status Form (HEAL-508), documenting each deferment granted under ยง 681.12 or a written statement from an appropriate official stating that the borrower was engaged in an activity for which he or she was entitled to receive a deferment at the time the deferment was granted.

(b) The Secretary's payment of a claim is contingent upon receipt of all required documentation and an assignment to the United States of America of all right, title, and interest of the lender or holder in the note underlying the claim. The lender or holder must warrant that the loan is eligible for HEAL insurance.

(c) In addition, the lender or holder must comply with the following requirements for the filing of default, death, disability, and bankruptcy claims:
