
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - The Lender and Holder
###### ยง 681.40 Procedures for filing claims.
####### Default claims. Default

(1)means the persistent failure of the borrower to make a payment when due or to comply with other terms of the note or other written agreement evidencing a loan under circumstances where the Secretary finds it reasonable to conclude that the borrower no longer intends to honor the obligation to repay the loan. In the case of a loan repayable (or on which interest is payable) in monthly installments, this failure must have persisted for 120 days. In the case of a loan repayable (or on which interest is payable) in less frequent installments, this failure must have persisted for 180 days. If, for a particular loan, an automatic stay is imposed on collection activities by a Bankruptcy Court, and the lender or holder receives written notification of the automatic stay prior to initiating legal proceedings against the borrower, the 120- or 180-day period does not include any period prior to the end of the automatic stay.

(i) If a lender or holder determines that it is not appropriate to commence and prosecute an action against a default borrower pursuant to ยง 681.35(c)(3), it must file a default claim with the Secretary within 30 days after a loan has been determined to be in default.

(ii) If a lender files suit against a defaulted borrower and does not pursue collection of the judgment obtained as a result of the suit, it must file a default claim with the Secretary within 60 days of the date of issuance of the judgment. If a lender or holder files suit against a defaulted borrower, and pursues collection of the judgment obtained as a result of the suit, these collection activities must begin within 60 days of the date of issuance of the judgment. If the lender or holder is unable to collect the full amount of principal and interest owed, a claim must be filed within 30 days of completion of the post-judgment collection activities. In either case, the lender or holder must assign the judgment to the Secretary as part of the default claim.

(iii) In addition to the documentation required for all claims, the lender or holder must submit with its default claim at least the following:

(A) Repayment schedule(s);

(B) A collection history, if any;

(C) A final demand letter;

(D) The original or a copy of all correspondence relevant to the HEAL loan to or from the borrower (whether received by the original lender, a subsequent holder, or an independent servicing agent);

(E) A claims collection litigation report; and

(F) If the defaulted borrower filed for bankruptcy under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act and did not file a complaint to determine the dischargeability of the loan, all documents sent to or received from the bankruptcy court, including evidence which shows the period of the bankruptcy proceedings.

(iv) If a lender or holder files a default claim on a loan and subsequently receives written notice from the court or the borrower's attorney that the borrower has filed for bankruptcy under chapter 11 or 13 of the Bankruptcy Act, or under chapter 7 with a complaint to determine the dischargeability of the loan, the lender or holder must file that notice with the Secretary within 10 days of the lender or holder's initial date of receipt, as documented by a date stamp. If the borrower is declaring bankruptcy under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act, and has not filed a complaint to determine the dischargeability of the loan, the lender or holder must file the written notice with the Secretary within 30 days of the lender's or holder's initial date of receipt, as documented by a date stamp. If the Secretary has not paid the claim at the time the lender or holder receives that notice, upon receipt of the notice, the lender or holder must file with the bankruptcy court a proof of claim, if applicable, and an objection to the discharge or compromise of the HEAL loan. If the Secretary has paid the claim, the lender or holder must file a statement with the court notifying it that the loan is owned by the Secretary.
