
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 76 - STATE-ADMINISTERED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart E - How a Subgrant Is Made to an Applicant
##### ยง 76.401 Disapproval of an application - opportunity for a hearing.
###### State educational agency hearing procedures.

(d)(1) If the applicant applied under a program listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the State educational agency shall provide an opportunity for a hearing before the agency disapproves the application.

(2) If the applicant applied under a program not listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the State educational agency shall provide an opportunity for a hearing either before or after the agency disapproves the application.

(3) The applicant shall request the hearing within 30 days of the action of the State educational agency.

(4)(i) Within 30 days after it receives a request, the State educational agency shall hold a hearing on the record and shall review its action.

(ii) No later than 10 days after the hearing the agency shall issue its written ruling, including findings of fact and reasons for the ruling.

(iii) If the agency determines that its action was contrary to State or Federal statutes or regulations that govern the applicable program, the agency shall rescind its action.

(5) If the State educational agency does not rescind its final action after a review under this paragraph, the applicant may appeal to the Secretary. The applicant shall file a notice of the appeal with the Secretary within 20 days after the applicant has been notified by the State educational agency of the results of the agency's review. If supported by substantial evidence, findings of fact of the State educational agency are final.

(6)(i) The Secretary may also issue interim orders to State educational agencies as he or she may decide are necessary and appropriate pending appeal or review.

(ii) If the Secretary determines that the action of the State educational agency was contrary to Federal statutes or regulations that govern the applicable program, the Secretary issues an order that requires the State educational agency to take appropriate action.

(7) Each State educational agency shall make available at reasonable times and places to each applicant all records of the agency pertaining to any review or appeal the applicant is conducting under this section, including records of other applicants.

(8) If a State educational agency does not comply with any provision of this section, or with any order of the Secretary under this section, the Secretary terminates all assistance to the State educational agency under the applicable program or issues such other orders as the Secretary deems appropriate to achieve compliance.
