
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 681 - HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - The School
###### ยง 681.50 Which schools are eligible to be HEAL schools?

(a) In order to participate in the HEAL program, a school must enter into a written agreement with the Secretary. In the agreement, the school promises to comply with provisions of the HEAL law and the HEAL regulations. For initial entry into this agreement and for the agreement to remain in effect, a school must satisfy the following requirements:

(1)(i) The school must be legally authorized within a State to conduct a course of study leading to one of the following degrees:

(A) Doctor of Medicine.

(B) Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine.

(C) Doctor of Dentistry or equivalent degree.

(D) Bachelor or Master of Science in Pharmacy or equivalent degree.

(E) Doctor of Optometry or equivalent degree.

(F) Doctor of Veterinary Medicine or equivalent degree.

(G) Doctor of Podiatric Medicine or equivalent degree.

(H) Graduate or equivalent degree in Public Health.

(I) Doctor of Chiropractic or equivalent degree.

(J) Doctoral degree of Clinical Psychology.

(K) Masters or doctoral degree in Health Administration.

(ii) For the purposes of this section, the term "State" includes, in addition to the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (the Republic of Palau), the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.

(2)(i) The school must be accredited by a recognized agency approved for that course of study by the Secretary of Education, as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, except where a school is not eligible for accreditation solely because it is too new. A new school is eligible if the Secretary of Education determines that it can reasonably expect to be accredited before the beginning of the academic year following the normal graduation date of its first entering class. The Secretary of Education makes this determination after consulting with the appropriate accrediting agency and receiving reasonable assurance to that effect.

(ii) The approved accrediting agencies are:

(A) Liaison Committee on Medical Education.

(B) American Osteopathic Association, Bureau of Professional Education.

(C) American Dental Association, Commission on Dental Accreditation.

(D) American Veterinary Medical Association, Council on Education.

(E) American Optometric Association, Council on Optometric Education.

(F) American Podiatric Medical Association, Council on Podiatric Medical Education.

(G) Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education.

(H) Council on Education for Public Health.

(I) Council on Chiropractic Education, Commission on Accreditation.

(J) Accrediting Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education.

(K) American Psychological Association, Committee on Accreditation.

(b) If a HEAL school undergoes a change of controlling ownership or form of control, its agreement automatically expires at the time of that change. The school must enter into a new agreement with the Secretary in order to continue its participation in the HEAL program.
