
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart A - Purpose and Scope
###### ยง 682.100 The Federal Family Education Loan programs.

(a) This part governs the following four programs collectively referred to in these regulations as "the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) programs," in which lenders used their own funds prior to July 1, 2010, to make loans to enable a student or his or her parents to pay the costs of the student's attendance at postsecondary schools.

(1) The Federal Stafford Loan (Stafford) Program, which encouraged making loans to undergraduate, graduate, and professional students.

(2) The Federal Supplemental Loans for Students (SLS) Program, as in effect for periods of enrollment that began prior to July 1, 1994, which encouraged making loans to graduate, professional, independent undergraduate, and certain dependent undergraduate students.

(3) The Federal PLUS (PLUS) Program, which encouraged making loans to parents of dependent undergraduate students. Before October 17, 1986, the PLUS Program also provided for making loans to graduate, professional, and independent undergraduate students. Before July 1, 1993, the PLUS Program also provided for making loans to parents of dependent graduate students. The PLUS Program also provided for making loans to graduate and professional students on or after July 1, 2006 and prior to July 1, 2010.

(4) The Federal Consolidation Loan Program (Consolidation Loan Program), which encouraged making loans to borrowers for the purpose of consolidating loans: under the Federal Insured Student Loan (FISL), Stafford loan, SLS, ALAS (as in effect before October 17, 1986), PLUS, Perkins Loan programs, the Health Professions Student Loan (HPSL) including Loans for Disadvantaged Students (LDS) Program authorized by subpart II of part A of Title VII of the Public Health Services Act, Health Education Assistance Loans (HEAL) authorized by subpart I of Part A of Title VII of the Health Services Act, Nursing Student Loan Program loans authorized by subpart II of part B of title VIII of the Public Health Service Act, and existing loans obtained under the Consolidation Loan Program, and William D. Ford Direct Loan (Direct Loan) program loans, if the application for the Consolidation loan was received on or after November 13, 1997 and prior to July 1, 2010.

(b)(1) Except for the loans guaranteed directly by the Secretary described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a guaranty agency guarantees a lender against losses due to default by the borrower on a FFEL loan. If the guaranty agency meets certain Federal requirements, the guaranty agency is reimbursed by the Secretary for all or part of the amount of default claims it pays to lenders.

(2)(i) The Secretary guarantees lenders against losses-

(A) Within the Stafford Loan Program, on loans made under Federal Insured Student Loan (FISL) Program;

(B) Within the PLUS Program, on loans made under the Federal PLUS Program;

(C) Within the SLS Program, on loans made under the Federal SLS Program as in effect for periods of enrollment that began prior to July 1, 1994; and

(D) Within the Consolidation Loan Program, on loans made under the Federal Consolidation Loan Program.

(ii) The loan programs listed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section collectively are referred to in these regulations as the "Federal Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL) programs."

(iii) The Federal GSL programs were authorized to operate in States not served by a guaranty agency program. In addition, the FISL and Federal SLS (as in effect for periods of enrollment that began prior to July 1, 1994) programs were authorized, under limited circumstances, to operate in States in which a guaranty agency program did not serve all eligible students.
