
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.200 Definitions.
####### Repayment period.

(1) For a Stafford loan, the period beginning on the date following the expiration of the grace period and ending no later than 10 years, or 25 years under an extended repayment schedule, from the date the first payment of principal is due from the borrower, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance.

(2) For unsubsidized Stafford loans, the period that begins on the day after the expiration of the applicable grace period that follows after the student ceases to be enrolled on at least a half-time basis and ending no later than 10 years or 25 years under an extended repayment schedule, from that date, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance. However, payments of interest are the responsibility of the borrower during the in-school and grace period, but may be capitalized by the lender.

(3) For SLS loans, the period that begins on the date the loan is disbursed, or if the loan is disbursed in more than one installment, on the date the last disbursement is made and ending no later than 10 years from that date, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance. The first payment of principal is due within 60 days after the loan is fully disbursed unless a borrower who is also a Stafford loan borrower but who, has not yet entered repayment on the Stafford loan requests that commencement of repayment on the SLS loan be delayed until the borrower's grace period on the Stafford loan expires. Interest on the loan accrues and is due and payable from the date of the first disbursement of the loan. The borrower is responsible for paying interest on the loan during the grace period and periods of deferment, but the interest may be capitalized by the lender.

(4) For Federal PLUS loans, the period that begins on the date the loan is disbursed, or if the loan is disbursed in more than one installment, on the date the last disbursement is made and ending no later than 10 years, or 25 years under an extended repayment schedule, from that date, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance. Interest on the loan accrues and is due and payable from the date of the first disbursement of the loan.

(5) For Federal Consolidation loans, the period that begins on the date the loan is disbursed and ends no later than 10, 12, 15, 20, 25, or 30 years from that date depending upon the sum of the amount of the Consolidation loan, and the unpaid balance on other student loans, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance.
