
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.201 Eligible borrowers.
####### Parent PLUS borrower.

(c)(1) A parent borrower, is eligible to receive a PLUS Program loan, other than a loan made under ยง 682.209(e), if the parent-

(i) Is borrowing to pay for the educational costs of a dependent undergraduate student who meets the requirements for an eligible student set forth in 34 CFR part 668;

(ii) Provides his or her and the student's social security number;

(iii) Meets the requirements pertaining to citizenship and residency that apply to the student in 34 CFR 668.33;

(iv) Meets the requirements concerning defaults and overpayments that apply to the student in 34 CFR 668.35 and meets the requirements of judgment liens that apply to the student under 34 CFR 668.32(g)(3);

(v) Except for the completion of a Statement of Selective Service Registration Status, complies with the requirements for submission of a Statement of Educational Purpose that apply to the student in 34 CFR part 668;

(vi) Meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), and (a)(7) of this section, as applicable; and

(vii) In the case of a Federal PLUS loan made on or after July 1, 1993, does not have an adverse credit history or obtains an endorser who has been determined not to have an adverse credit history as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(viii) Has completed repayment of any title IV, HEA program assistance obtained by fraud, if the parent has been convicted of, or has pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving fraud in obtaining title IV, HEA program assistance.

(2)(i) For purposes of this section, the lender must obtain a credit report on each applicant from at least one national consumer reporting agency. The credit report must be secured within a timeframe that would ensure the most accurate, current representation of the borrower's credit history before the first day of the period of enrollment for which the loan is intended.

(ii) Unless the lender determines that extenuating circumstances existed, the lender must consider each applicant to have an adverse credit history based on the credit report if-

(A) The applicant is considered 90 or more days delinquent on the repayment of a debt; or

(B) The applicant has been the subject of a default determination, bankruptcy discharge, foreclosure, repossession, tax lien, wage garnishment, or write-off of a Title IV debt, during the five years preceding the date of the credit report.

(iii) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the lender from establishing more restrictive credit standards to determine whether the applicant has an adverse credit history.

(iv) The absence of any credit history is not an indication that the applicant has an adverse credit history and is not to be used as a reason to deny a PLUS loan to that applicant.

(v) The lender must retain a record of its basis for determining that extenuating circumstances existed. This record may include, but is not limited to, an updated credit report, a statement from the creditor that the borrower has made satisfactory arrangements to repay the debt, or a satisfactory statement from the borrower explaining any delinquencies with outstanding balances of less than $500.

(3) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a "parent" includes the individuals described in the definition of "parent" in 34 CFR 668.2 and the spouse of a parent who remarried, if that spouse's income and assets would have been taken into account when calculating a dependent student's expected family contribution.
