
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 76 - STATE-ADMINISTERED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart F - What Conditions Must Be Met by the State and Its Subgrantees?
##### Indirect Cost Rates
###### ยง 76.565 General management costs - restricted rate.
####### general management costs

(a) As used in ยง 76.564,means the costs of activities that are for the direction and control of the grantee's affairs that are organization-wide. An activity is not organization-wide if it is limited to one activity, one component of the grantee, one subject, one phase of operations, or other single responsibility.

(b) General management costs include the costs of performing a service function, such as accounting, payroll preparation, or personnel management, that is normally at the grantee's level even if the function is physically located elsewhere for convenience or better management. The term also includes certain occupancy and space maintenance costs as determined under ยง 76.568.

(c) The term does not include expenditures for-

(1) Divisional administration that is limited to one component of the grantee;

(2) The governing body of the grantee;

(3) Compensation of the chief executive officer of the grantee;

(4) Compensation of the chief executive officer of any component of the grantee; and

(5) Operation of the immediate offices of these officers.

(d) For purposes of this section-

(1) The chief executive officer of the grantee is the individual who is the head of the executive office of the grantee and exercises overall responsibility for the operation and management of the organization. The chief executive officer's immediate office includes any deputy chief executive officer or similar officer along with immediate support staff of these individuals. The term does not include the governing body of the grantee, such as a board or a similar elected or appointed governing body; and

(2) Components of the grantee are those organizational units supervised directly or indirectly by the chief executive officer. These organizational units generally exist one management level below the executive office of the grantee. The term does not include the office of the chief executive officer or a deputy chief executive officer or similar position.
