
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.202 Permissible charges by lenders to borrowers.
####### Consolidation Program.

(4)(i) A Consolidation Program loan made before July 1, 1994 bears interest at the rate that is the greater of-

(A) The weighted average of interest rates on the loans consolidated, rounded to the nearest whole percent; or

(B) 9 percent.

(ii) A Consolidation loan made on or after July 1, 1994, for which the loan application was received by the lender before November 13, 1997, bears interest at the rate that is equal to the weighted average of interest rates on the loans consolidated, rounded upward to the nearest whole percent.

(iii) For a Consolidation loan for which the loan application was received by the lender on or after November 13, 1997 and before October 1, 1998, the interest rate for the portion of the loan that consolidated loans other than HEAL loans is a variable rate, applicable to each July 1-June 30 period, that equals the lesser of-

(A) The bond equivalent rate of the 91-day Treasury bills auctioned at the final auction held prior to June 1 of each year plus 3.10 percent; or

(B) 8.25 percent.

(iv) For a Consolidation loan for which the application was received by the lender on or after October 1, 1998 and prior to July 1, 2010, the interest rate for the portion of the loan that consolidated loans other than HEAL loans is a fixed rate that is the lesser of-

(A) The weighted average of interest rates on the loans consolidated, rounded to the nearest higher one-eighth of one percent; or

(B) 8.25 percent.

(v) For a Consolidation loan for which the application was received by the lender on or after November 13, 1997, the annual interest rate applicable to the portion of each consolidation loan that repaid HEAL loans is a variable rate adjusted annually on July 1 and must be equal to the average of the bond equivalent rates of the 91-day Treasury bills auctioned for the quarter ending June 30, plus 3 percent. There is no maximum rate on this portion of the loan.
