
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.202 Permissible charges by lenders to borrowers.
####### Fees for FFEL Program loans.

(c)(1)(i) For Stafford loans first disbursed prior to July 1, 2006, a lender may charge a borrower an origination fee not to exceed 3 percent of the principal amount of the loan.

(ii) For Stafford loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, but before July 1, 2007, a lender may charge a borrower an origination fee not to exceed 2 percent of the principal amount of the loan.

(iii) For Stafford loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2007, but before July 1, 2008, a lender may charge a borrower an origination fee not to exceed 1.5 percent of the principal amount of the loan.

(iv) For Stafford loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2008, but before July 1, 2009, a lender may charge a borrower an origination fee not to exceed 1 percent of the principal amount of the loan.

(v) For Stafford loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2009, but before July 1, 2010, a lender may charge a borrower an origination fee not to exceed .5 percent of the principal amount of the loan.

(vi) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a lender must charge all borrowers the same origination fee.

(2)(i) A lender may charge a lower origination fee than the amount specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to a borrower whose expected family contribution (EFC), used to determine eligibility for the loan, is equal to or less than the maximum qualifying EFC for a Federal Pell Grant at the time the loan is certified or to a borrower who qualifies for a subsidized Stafford loan. A lender must charge all such borrowers the same origination fee.

(ii) With the approval of the Secretary, a lender may use a standard comparable to that defined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) If a lender charges a lower origination fee on unsubsidized loans under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, the lender must charge the same fee on subsidized loans.

(4)(i) For purposes of this paragraph (c), a lender is defined as:

(A) All entities under common ownership, including ownership by a common holding company, that make loans to borrowers in a particular state; and

(B) Any beneficial owner of loans that provides funds to an eligible lender trustee to make loans on the beneficial owner's behalf in a particular state.

(ii) If a lender as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(i) charges a lower origination fee to any borrower in a particular state under paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, the lender must charge all such borrowers who reside in that state or attend school in that state the same origination fee.

(5) A lender must charge a borrower an origination fee on a PLUS loan of 3 percent of the principal amount of the loan;

(6) A lender must deduct a pro rata portion of the fee (if charged) from each disbursement; and

(7) A lender must refund by a credit against the borrower's loan balance the portion of the origination fee previously deducted from the loan that is attributable to any portion of the loan-

(i) That is returned by a school to a lender in order to comply with the Act or with applicable regulations;

(ii) That is repaid or returned within 120 days of disbursement, unless-

(A) The borrower has no FFEL Program loans in repayment status and has requested, in writing, that the repaid or returned funds be used for a different purpose; or

(B) The borrower has a FFEL Program loan in repayment status, in which case the payment is applied in accordance with ยง 682.209(b) unless the borrower has requested, in writing, that the repaid or returned funds be applied as a cancellation of all or part of the loan;

(iii) For which a loan check has not been negotiated within 120 days of disbursement; or

(iv) For which loan proceeds disbursed by electronic funds transfer or master check have not been released from the restricted account maintained by the school within 120 days of disbursement.
