
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### § 682.209 Repayment of a loan.
####### Conversion of a loan to repayment status.

(a)(1) For a Consolidation loan, the repayment period begins on the date the loan is disbursed. The first payment is due within 60 days after the date the loan is disbursed.

(2)(i) For a PLUS loan, the repayment period begins on the date of the last disbursement made on the loan. Interest accrues and is due and payable from the date of the first disbursement of the loan. The first payment is due within 60 days after the date the loan is fully disbursed.

(ii) For an SLS loan, the repayment period begins on the date the loan is disbursed, or, if the loan is disbursed in multiple installments, on the date of the last disbursement of the loan. Interest accrues and is due and payable from the date of the first disbursement of the loan. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), and (a)(2)(v) of this section the first payment is due within 60 days after the date the loan is fully disbursed.

(iii) For an SLS borrower who has not yet entered repayment on a Stafford loan, the borrower may postpone payment, consistent with the grace period on the borrower's Stafford loan.

(iv) If the lender first learns after the fact that an SLS borrower has entered the repayment period, the repayment begins no later than 75 days after the date the lender learns that the borrower has entered the repayment period.

(v) The lender may establish a first payment due date that is no more than an additional 30 days beyond the period specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)-(a)(2)(iv) of this section in order for the lender to comply with the required deadline contained in § 682.205(c)(1).

(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, for a Stafford loan the repayment period begins-

(A) For a borrower with a loan for which the applicable interest rate is 7 percent per year, not less than 9 nor more than 12 months following the date on which the borrower is no longer enrolled on at least a half-time basis at an eligible school. The length of this grace period is determined by the lender for loans made under the FISL Program, and by the guaranty agency for loans guaranteed by the agency;

(B) For a borrower with a loan for which the initial applicable interest rate is 8 or 9 percent per year, the day after 6 months following the date on which the borrower is no longer enrolled on at least a half-time basis at an institution of higher education;

(C) For a borrower with a loan with a variable interest rate, the day after 6 months following the date on which the borrower is no longer enrolled on at least a half-time basis at an institution of higher education; and

(D) For a borrower with a loan for which the applicable interest rate is fixed at 6.0 percent per year, 5.6 percent per year, or 6.8 percent per year, the day after 6 months following the date on which the borrower is no longer enrolled on at least a half-time basis at an institution of higher education.

(ii) The first payment on a Stafford loan is due on a date established by the lender that is no more than-

(A) 60 days following the first day that the repayment period begins;

(B) 60 days from the expiration of a deferment or forbearance period;

(C) 60 days following the end of the post deferment grace period;

(D) If the lender first learns after the fact that the borrower has entered the repayment period, no later than 75 days after the date the lender learns that the borrower has entered the repayment period; or

(E) An additional 30 days beyond the periods specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)-(a)(3)(ii)(D) of this section in order for the lender to comply with the required deadlines contained in § 682.205(a)(1).

(iii) When determining the date that the student was no longer enrolled on at least a half-time basis, the lender must use a new date it receives from a school, unless the lender has already disclosed repayment terms to the borrower and the new date is within the same month and year as the most recent date reported to the lender.

(4) For a borrower of a Stafford loan who is a correspondence student, the grace period specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section begins on the earliest of-

(i) The day after the borrower completes the program;

(ii) The day after withdrawal as determined pursuant to 34 CFR 668.22; or

(iii) 60 days following the last day for completing the program as established by the school.

(5) For purposes of establishing the beginning of the repayment period for Stafford and SLS loans, the grace periods referenced in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii) and (a)(3)(i) of this section exclude any period during which a borrower who is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces named in section 10101 of title 10, United States Code is called or ordered to active duty for a period of more than 30 days. Any single excluded period may not exceed three years and includes the time necessary for the borrower to resume enrollment at the next available regular enrollment period. Any Stafford or SLS borrower who is in a grace period when called or ordered to active duty as specified in this paragraph is entitled to a full grace period upon completion of the excluded period.

(6)(i) The repayment schedule may provide for substantially equal installment payments or for installment payments that increase or decrease in amount during the repayment period. If the loan has a variable interest rate that changes annually, the lender may establish a repayment schedule that-

(A) Provides for adjustments of the amount of the installment payment to reflect annual changes in the variable interest rate; or

(B) Contains no provision for an adjustment of the amount of the installment payment to reflect annual changes in the variable interest rate, but requires the lender to grant a forbearance to the borrower (or endorser, if applicable) for a period of up to 3 years of payments in accordance with § 682.211(i)(5) in cases where the effect of a variable interest rate on a standard or graduated repayment schedule would result in a loan not being repaid within the maximum repayment term.

(ii) If a graduated or income-sensitive repayment schedule is established, it may not provide for any single installment that is more than three times greater than any other installment. An agreement as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section is not required if the schedule provides for less than the minimum annual payment amount specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.

(iii) Not more than six months prior to the date that the borrower's first payment is due, the lender must offer the borrower a choice of a standard, income-sensitive, income-based, graduated, or, if applicable, an extended repayment schedule.

(iv) Except in the case of an income-based repayment schedule, the repayment schedule must require that each payment equal at least the interest that accrues during the interval between scheduled payments.

(v) The lender shall require the borrower to repay the loan under a standard repayment schedule described in paragraph (a)(6)(vi) of this section if the borrower-

(A) Does not select an income-sensitive, income-based, graduated, or, if applicable, an extended repayment schedule within 45 days after being notified by the lender to choose a repayment schedule;

(B) Chooses an income-sensitive repayment schedule, but does not provide the documentation requested by the lender under paragraph (a)(6)(viii)(C) of this section within the time period specified by the lender; or

(C) Chooses an income-based repayment schedule, but does not provide the income documentation requested by the lender under § 682.215(e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) within the time period specified by the lender.

(vi) Under a standard repayment schedule, the borrower is scheduled to pay either-

(A) The same amount for each installment payment made during the repayment period, except that the borrower's final payment may be slightly more or less than the other payments; or

(B) An installment amount that will be adjusted to reflect annual changes in the loan's variable interest rate.

(vii) Under a graduated repayment schedule-
