
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### § 682.209 Repayment of a loan.
####### 2

() If the loan has a variable interest rate that changes annually, the lender may establish a repayment schedule that may have adjustments in the payment amount as provided under paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section; and

(B) In general, the lender shall request the borrower to inform the lender of his or her income no earlier than 90 days prior to the due date of the borrower's initial installment payment and subsequent annual payment adjustment under an income-sensitive repayment schedule. The income information must be sufficient for the lender to make a reasonable determination of what the borrower's payment amount should be. If the lender receives late notification that the borrower has dropped below half-time enrollment status at a school, the lender may request that income information earlier than 90 days prior to the due date of the borrower's initial installment payment;

(C) If the borrower reports income to the lender that the lender considers to be insufficient for establishing monthly installment payments that would repay the loan within the applicable maximum repayment period, the lender shall require the borrower to submit evidence showing the amount of the most recent total monthly gross income received by the borrower from employment and from other sources including, if applicable, pay statements from employers and documentation of any income received by the borrower from other parties;

(D) The lender shall grant a forbearance to the borrower (or endorser, if applicable) for a period of up to 5 years of payments in accordance with § 682.211(i)(5) in cases where the effect of decreased installment amounts paid under an income-sensitive repayment schedule would result in a loan not being repaid within the maximum repayment term; and

(E) The lender shall inform the borrower that the loan must be repaid within the time limits specified under paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(ix) Under an extended repayment schedule, a new borrower whose total outstanding principal and interest in FFEL loans exceed $30,000 may repay the loan on a fixed annual repayment amount or a graduated repayment amount for a period that may not exceed 25 years. For purposes of this section, a "new borrower" is an individual who has no outstanding principal or interest balance on an FFEL Program loan as of October 7, 1998, or on the date he or she obtains an FFEL Program loan after October 7, 1998.

(x) Under an income-based repayment schedule, the borrower repays the loan in accordance with § 682.215.

(xi) A borrower may request a change in the repayment schedule on a loan. The lender must permit the borrower to change the repayment schedule no less frequently than annually, or at any time in the case of a borrower in an income-based repayment plan.

(xii) For purposes of this section, a lender shall, to the extent practicable require that all FFEL loans owed by a borrower to the lender be combined into one account and repaid under one repayment schedule. In that event, the word "loan" in this section shall mean all of the borrower's loans that were combined by the lender into that account.

(7)(i) Subject to paragraphs (a)(7)(ii) through (iv) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(ix) a lender shall allow a borrower at least 5 years, but not more than 10 years, or 25 years under an extended repayment plan to repay a Stafford, SLS, or PLUS loan, calculated from the beginning of the repayment period. Except in the case of a FISL loan for a period of enrollment beginning on or after July 1, 1986, the lender shall require a borrower to fully repay a FISL loan within 15 years after it is made.

(ii) If the borrower receives an authorized deferment or is granted forbearance, as described in § 682.210 or § 682.211 respectively, the periods of deferment or forbearance are excluded from determinations of the 5-, 10-, and 15- and 25-year periods, and from the 10-, 12-, 15-, 20-, 25-, and 30-year periods for repayment of a Consolidation loan pursuant to § 682.209(h).

(iii) If the minimum annual repayment required in paragraph (c) of this section would result in complete repayment of the loan in less than 5 years, the borrower is not entitled to the full 5-year period.

(iv) The borrower may, prior to the beginning of the repayment period, request and be granted by the lender a repayment period of less than 5 years. Subject to paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section, a borrower who makes such a request may notify the lender at any time to extend the repayment period to a minimum of 5 years.

(8) If, with respect to the aggregate of all loans held by a lender, the total payment made by a borrower for a monthly or similar payment period would not otherwise be a multiple of five dollars, except in the case of payments made under an income-based repayment plan, the lender may round that periodic payment to the next highest whole dollar amount that is a multiple of five dollars.
