
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.210 Deferment.
####### General.

(a)(1)(i) A borrower is entitled to have periodic installment payments of principal deferred during authorized periods after the beginning of the repayment period, pursuant to paragraph (b) and paragraphs (s) through (v) of this section.

(ii) With the exception of a deferment authorized under paragraph (o) of this section, a borrower may continue to receive a specific type of deferment that is limited to a maximum period of time only if the total amount of time that the borrower has received the deferment does not exceed the maximum time period allowed for the deferment.

(2)(i) For a loan made before October 1, 1981, the borrower is also entitled to have periodic installments of principal deferred during the six-month period (post-deferment grace period) that begins after the completion of each deferment period or combination of those periods, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Once a borrower receives a post-deferment grace period following an unemployment deferment, as described in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, the borrower does not qualify for additional post-deferment grace periods following subsequent unemployment deferments.

(3)(i) Interest accrues and is paid by-

(A) The Secretary during the deferment period for a subsidized Stafford loan and for all or a portion of a Consolidation loan that qualifies for interest benefits under ยง 682.301; or

(B) The borrower during the deferment period and, as applicable, the post-deferment grace period, on all other loans.

(ii) A borrower who is responsible for payment of interest during a deferment period must be notified by the lender, at or before the time the deferment is granted, that the borrower has the option to pay the accruing interest or cancel the deferment and continue paying on the loan. The lender must also provide information, including an example, on the impact of capitalization of accrued, unpaid interest on loan principal, and on the total amount of interest to be paid over the life of the loan.

(4) As a condition for receiving a deferment, except for purposes of paragraphs (c)(1)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section, the borrower, or the borrower's representative for purposes of paragraphs (i) and (t) of this section, must request the deferment, and provide the lender with all information and documents required to establish eligibility for a specific type of deferment.

(5) An authorized deferment period begins on the date that the holder determines is the date that the condition entitling the borrower to the deferment first existed, except that an initial unemployment deferment as described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section cannot begin more than 6 months before the date the holder receives a request and documentation required for the deferment.

(6) An authorized deferment period ends on the earlier of-

(i) The date when the condition establishing the borrower's eligibility for the deferment ends;

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(iv) of this section, the date on which, as certified by an authorized official, the borrower's eligibility for the deferment is expected to end;

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(iv) of this section, the expiration date of the period covered by any certification required by this section to be obtained for the deferment;

(iv) In the case of an in-school deferment, the student's anticipated graduation date as certified by an authorized official of the school; or

(v) The date when the condition providing the basis for the borrower's eligibility for the deferment has continued to exist for the maximum amount of time allowed for that type of deferment.

(7) A lender may not deny a borrower a deferment to which the borrower is entitled, even though the borrower may be delinquent, but not in default, in making required installment payments. The 270- or 330-day period required to establish default does not run during the deferment and post-deferment grace periods. Unless the lender has granted the borrower forbearance under ยง 682.211, when the deferment and, if applicable, the post-deferment grace period expire, a borrower resumes any delinquency status that existed when the deferment period began.

(8) A borrower whose loan is in default is not eligible for a deferment on that loan, unless the borrower has made payment arrangements acceptable to the lender prior to the payment of a default claim by a guaranty agency.

(9) The borrower promptly must inform the lender when the condition entitling the borrower to a deferment no longer exists.

(10) Authorized deferments are described in paragraph (b) of this section. Specific requirements for each deferment are set forth in paragraphs (c) through (s) of this section.

(11) If two individuals are jointly liable for repayment of a PLUS loan or a Consolidation loan, the lender shall grant a request for deferment if both individuals simultaneously meet the requirements of this section for receiving the same, or different deferments.
