
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.210 Deferment.
####### Military deferment.

(i)(1) To qualify for a military deferment, a borrower or a borrower's representative shall provide the lender with-

(i) A written statement from the borrower's commanding or personnel officer certifying-

(A) That the borrower is on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States;

(B) The date on which the borrower's service began; and

(C) The date on which the borrower's service is expected to end; or

(ii)(A) A copy of the borrower's official military orders; and

(B) A copy of the borrower's military identification.

(2) For the purpose of this section, the Armed Forces means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard.

(3) A borrower enlisted in a reserve component of the Armed Forces may qualify for a military deferment only for service on a full-time basis that is expected to last for a period of at least one year in length, as evidenced by official military orders, unless an order for national mobilization of reservists is issued.

(4) A borrower enlisted in the National Guard qualifies for a military deferment only while the borrower is on active duty status as a member of the U.S. Army or Air Force Reserves, and meets the requirements of paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(5) A lender that grants a military service deferment based on a request from a borrower's representative must notify the borrower that the deferment has been granted and that the borrower has the option to cancel the deferment and continue to make payments on the loan. The lender may also notify the borrower's representative of the outcome of the deferment request.
