
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.210 Deferment.
####### Deferments for new borrowers on or after July 1, 1993,General.

(s)-(1)(i) A new borrower who receives an FFEL Program loan first disbursed on or after July 1, 1993 is entitled to receive deferments under paragraphs (s)(2) through (s)(6) of this section. For purposes of paragraphs (s)(2) through (s)(6) of this section, a "new borrower" is an individual who has no outstanding principal or interest balance on an FFEL Program loan as of July 1, 1993 or on the date he or she obtains a loan on or after July 1, 1993. This term also includes a borrower who obtains a Federal Consolidation Loan on or after July 1, 1993 if the borrower has no other outstanding FFEL Program loan when the Consolidation Loan was made.

(ii) As a condition for receiving a deferment, except for purposes of paragraph (s)(2) of this section, the borrower must request the deferment and provide the lender with all information and documents required to establish eligibility for the deferment.

(iii) After receiving a borrower's written or verbal request, a lender may grant a deferment under paragraphs (s)(3) through (s)(6) of this section if the lender is able to confirm that the borrower has received a deferment on another FFEL loan or on a Direct Loan for the same reason and the same time period. The lender may grant the deferment based on information from the other FFEL loan holder or the Secretary or from an authoritative electronic database maintained or authorized by the Secretary that supports eligibility for the deferment for the same reason and the same time period.

(iv) A lender may rely in good faith on the information it receives under paragraph (s)(1)(iii) of this section when determining a borrower's eligibility for a deferment unless the lender, as of the date of the determination, has information indicating that the borrower does not qualify for the deferment. A lender must resolve any discrepant information before granting a deferment under paragraph (s)(1)(iii) of this section.

(v) A lender that grants a deferment under paragraph (s)(1)(iii) of this section must notify the borrower that the deferment has been granted and that the borrower has the option to pay interest that accrues on an unsubsidized FFEL loan or to cancel the deferment and continue to make payments on the loan.
