
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.215 Income-based repayment plan.
####### Repayment plan.

(b)(1) A borrower may elect the income-based repayment plan only if the borrower has a partial financial hardship. The borrower's aggregate monthly loan payments are limited to no more than 15 percent of the amount by which the borrower's AGI exceeds 150 percent of the poverty line income applicable to the borrower's family size, divided by 12. The loan holder adjusts the calculated monthly payment if-

(i) Except for borrowers provided for in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the total amount of the borrower's eligible loans includes loans not held by the loan holder, in which case the loan holder determines the borrower's adjusted monthly payment by multiplying the calculated payment by the percentage of the total outstanding principal amount of the borrower's eligible loans that are held by the loan holder;

(ii) Both the borrower and the borrower's spouse have eligible loans and filed a joint Federal tax return, in which case the loan holder determines-

(A) Each borrower's percentage of the couple's total eligible loan debt;

(B) The adjusted monthly payment for each borrower by multiplying the calculated payment by the percentage determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section; and

(C) If the borrower's loans are held by multiple holders, the borrower's adjusted monthly payment by multiplying the payment determined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section by the percentage of the total outstanding principal amount of the borrower's eligible loans that are held by the loan holder;

(iii) The calculated amount under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(1)(i), or (b)(1)(ii) of this section is less than $5.00, in which case the borrower's monthly payment is $0.00; or

(iv) The calculated amount under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(1)(i), or (b)(1)(ii) of this section is equal to or greater than $5.00 but less than $10.00, in which case the borrower's monthly payment is $10.00.

(2) A borrower with eligible loans held by two or more loan holders must request income-based repayment from each loan holder if the borrower wants to repay all of his or her eligible loans under the income-based repayment plan. Each loan holder must apply the payment calculation rules in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section to loans they hold.

(3) If a borrower elects the income-based repayment plan on or after July 1, 2013, the loan holder must, unless the borrower has some loans that are eligible for repayment under the income-based repayment plan and other loans that are not eligible for repayment under that plan, require that all eligible loans owed by the borrower to that holder be repaid under the income-based repayment plan.

(4) If the borrower's monthly payment amount is not sufficient to pay the accrued interest on the borrower's subsidized Stafford Loans or the subsidized portion of the borrower's Federal Consolidation loan, the Secretary pays to the holder the remaining accrued interest for a period not to exceed three consecutive years from the established repayment period start date on each loan repaid under the income-based repayment plan. On a Consolidation Loan that repays loans on which the Secretary has paid accrued interest under this section, the three-year period includes the period for which the Secretary paid accrued interest on the underlying loans. The three-year period does not include any period during which the borrower receives an economic hardship deferment.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, accrued interest is capitalized at the time the borrower chooses to leave the income-based repayment plan or no longer has a partial financial hardship.

(6) If the borrower's monthly payment amount is not sufficient to pay any principal due, the payment of that principal is postponed until the borrower chooses to leave the income-based repayment plan or no longer has a partial financial hardship.

(7) The special allowance payment to a lender during the period in which the borrower has a partial financial hardship under the income-based repayment plan is calculated on the principal balance of the loan and any accrued interest unpaid by the borrower.

(8) The repayment period for a borrower under the income-based repayment plan may be greater than 10 years.
