
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.215 Income-based repayment plan.
####### Changes in the payment amount.

(d)(1) If a borrower no longer has a partial financial hardship, the borrower may continue to make payments under the income-based repayment plan but the loan holder must recalculate the borrower's monthly payment. The loan holder also recalculates the monthly payment for a borrower who chooses to stop making income-based payments. In either case, as a result of the recalculation-

(i) The maximum monthly amount that the loan holder requires the borrower to repay is the amount the borrower would have paid under the FFEL standard repayment plan based on a 10-year repayment period using the amount of the borrower's eligible loans that was outstanding at the time the borrower began repayment on the loans with that holder under the income-based repayment plan; and

(ii) The borrower's repayment period based on the recalculated payment amount may exceed 10 years.

(2) If a borrower no longer wishes to pay under the income-based repayment plan, the borrower must pay under the FFEL standard repayment plan and the loan holder recalculates the borrower's monthly payment based on-

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the time remaining under the maximum 10-year repayment period and the amount of the borrower's loans that was outstanding at the time the borrower discontinued paying under the income-based repayment plan; or

(ii) For a Consolidation Loan, the time remaining under the applicable repayment period as initially determined under ยง 682.209(h)(2) and the total amount of that loan that was outstanding at the time the borrower discontinued paying under the income-based repayment plan.

(3) A borrower who no longer wishes to repay under the income-based repayment plan and who is required to repay under the FFEL standard repayment plan in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section may request a change to a different repayment plan after making one monthly payment under the FFEL standard repayment plan. For this purpose, a monthly payment may include one payment made under a forbearance that provides for temporarily accepting smaller payments than previously scheduled, in accordance with ยง 682.211(a)(1).
