
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.215 Income-based repayment plan.
####### Loan forgiveness processing and payment.

(g)(1) The loan holder determines when a borrower has met the loan forgiveness requirements under paragraph (f) of this section and does not require the borrower to submit a request for loan forgiveness. No later than six months prior to the anticipated date that the borrower will meet the loan forgiveness requirements, the loan holder must send the borrower a written notice that includes-

(i) An explanation that the borrower is approaching the date that he or she is expected to meet the requirements to receive loan forgiveness;

(ii) A reminder that the borrower must continue to make the borrower's scheduled monthly payments; and

(iii) General information on the current treatment of the forgiveness amount for tax purposes, and instructions for the borrower to contact the Internal Revenue Service for more information.

(2) No later than 60 days after the loan holder determines that a borrower qualifies for loan forgiveness, the loan holder must request payment from the guaranty agency.

(3) If the loan holder requests payment from the guaranty agency later than the period specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, interest that accrues on the discharged amount after the expiration of the 60-day filing period is ineligible for reimbursement by the Secretary, and the holder must repay all interest and special allowance received on the discharged amount for periods after the expiration of the 60-day filing period. The holder cannot collect from the borrower any interest that is not paid by the Secretary under this paragraph.

(4)(i) Within 45 days of receiving the holder's request for payment, the guaranty agency must determine if the borrower meets the eligibility requirements for loan forgiveness under this section and must notify the holder of its determination.

(ii) If the guaranty agency approves the loan forgiveness, it must, within the same 45-day period required under paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section, pay the holder the amount of the forgiveness.

(5) After being notified by the guaranty agency of its determination of the eligibility of the borrower for loan forgiveness, the holder must, within 30 days-

(i) Inform the borrower of the determination and, if appropriate, that the borrower's repayment obligation on the loans is satisfied; and

(ii) Provide the borrower with the information described in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section.

(6)(i) The holder must apply the payment from the guaranty agency under paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section to satisfy the outstanding balance on those loans subject to income-based forgiveness; or

(ii) If the forgiveness amount exceeds the outstanding balance on the eligible loans subject to forgiveness, the loan holder must refund the excess amount to the guaranty agency.

(7) If the guaranty agency does not pay the forgiveness claim, the lender will continue the borrower in repayment on the loan. The lender is deemed to have exercised forbearance of both principal and interest from the date the borrower's repayment obligation was suspended until a new payment due date is established. Unless the denial of the forgiveness claim was due to an error by the lender, the lender may capitalize any interest accrued and not paid during this period, in accordance with ยง 682.202(b).

(8) The loan holder must promptly return to the sender any payment received on a loan after the guaranty agency pays the loan holder the amount of loan forgiveness.
