
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 682.216 Teacher loan forgiveness program.
####### Application and processing.

(f)(1) A borrower, after completing the qualifying teaching service, requests loan forgiveness from the holder of the loan on a form approved by the Secretary.

(2)(i) The holder must file a request for payment with the guaranty agency on a teacher loan forgiveness amount no later than 60 days after the receipt, from the borrower, of a completed teacher loan forgiveness application.

(ii) When filing a request for payment on a teacher loan forgiveness, the holder must provide the guaranty agency with the completed loan forgiveness application submitted by the borrower and any required supporting documentation.

(iii) If the holder files a request for payment later than 60 days after the receipt of the completed teacher loan forgiveness application form, interest that accrued on the loan forgiveness amount after the expiration of the 60-day filing period is ineligible for reimbursement by the Secretary, and the holder must repay all interest and special allowance received on the loan forgiveness amount for periods after the expiration of the 60-day filing period. The holder cannot collect from the borrower any interest that is not paid by the Secretary under this paragraph.

(3)(i) Within 45 days of receiving the holder's request for payment, the guaranty agency must determine if the borrower meets the eligibility requirements for loan forgiveness under this section and must notify the holder of its determination of the borrower's eligibility for loan forgiveness under this section.

(ii) If the guaranty agency approves the loan forgiveness, it must, within the same 45-day period, pay the holder the amount of the laon forgiveness, up to $17,500, subject to paragraphs (c)(11), (d)(1), (d)(2) and (f)(2)(iii) of this section.

(4) After being notified by the guaranty agency of its determination of the eligibility of the borrower for the loan forgiveness, the holder must, within 30 days, inform the borrower of the determination. If the loan forgiveness is approved, the holder must also provide the borrower with information regarding any new repayment terms of remaining loan balances.

(5) Unless otherwise instructed by the borrower, the holder must apply the proceeds of the teacher forgiveness first to any outstanding unsubsidized Federal Stafford loan balances, next to any outstanding subsidized Federal Stafford loan balances, then to any eligible outstanding Federal Consolidation loan balances.
