
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Federal Payments of Interest and Special Allowance
###### ยง 682.305 Procedures for payment of interest benefits and special allowance and collection of origination and loan fees.
####### 3

() The amount of excess interest, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(B) The Secretary increases the amount of interest benefits and special allowance payable to the lender by the amount of origination fees refunded to borrowers during the quarter under ยง 682.202(c).

(ii)(A) For any FFEL loan made on or after October 1, 1993, a lender shall pay the Secretary a loan fee equal to 0.50% of the principal amount of the loan.

(B) For any FFEL loan made on or after October 1, 2007 and prior to July 1, 2010, a lender shall pay the Secretary a loan fee equal to 1.0 percent of the principal amount of the loan.

(iii) The Secretary collects from an originating lender the amount of origination fees the originating lender was authorized to collect from borrowers during the quarter whether or not the originating lender actually collected those fees. The Secretary also collects the fees the originating lender is required to pay under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. Generally, the Secretary collects the fees from the originating lender by offsetting the amount of interest benefits and special allowance payable to the originating lender in a quarter, and, if necessary, the amount of interest benefits and special allowance payable in subsequent quarters may be offset until the total amount of fees has been recovered.

(iv) If the full amount of the fees cannot be collected within two quarters by reducing interest and special allowance payable to the originating lender, the Secretary may collect the unpaid amount directly from the originating lender.

(v) If the full amount of the fees cannot be collected within two quarters from the originating lender in accordance with paragraphs (a)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section and if the originating lender has transferred the loan to a subsequent holder, the Secretary may, following written notice, collect the unpaid amount from the holder by using the same steps described in paragraphs (a)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section, with the term "holder" substituting for the term "originating lender".

(4) If an originating lender sells or otherwise transfers a loan to a new holder, the originating lender remains liable to the Secretary for payment of the origination fees. The Secretary will not pay interest benefits or special allowance to the new holder or pay reinsurance to the guaranty agency until the origination fees are paid to the Secretary.
