
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.401 Basic program agreement.
####### Insurance premiums and Federal default fees.

(3)(i) Except for a Consolidation Loan or refinanced SLS or PLUS loans, a guaranty agency:

(A) May charge the lender an insurance premium for Stafford, SLS, or PLUS loans it guarantees prior to July 1, 2006; and

(B) Must collect, either from the lender or by payment from any other non-Federal source, a Federal default fee for any Stafford or PLUS loans it guarantees on or after July 1, 2006, to be deposited into the Federal Fund under ยง 682.419.

(ii) The guaranty agency may not use the Federal default fee for incentive payments to lenders, and may only use the insurance premium or the Federal default fee for costs incurred in guaranteeing loans or in the administration of the agency's loan guarantee program, as specified in ยง 682.410(a)(2) or ยง 682.419(c).

(iii) If a lender charges the borrower an insurance premium or Federal default fee, the lender must deduct the charge proportionately from each disbursement of the borrower's loan proceeds.

(iv) The amount of the insurance premium or Federal default fee, as applicable-

(A) May not exceed 3 percent of the principal balance for a loan disbursed on or before June 30, 1994;

(B) May not exceed 1 percent of the principal balance for a loan disbursed on or after July 1, 1994;

(C) Shall be 1 percent of the principal balance of a loan guaranteed on or after July 1, 2006 and prior to July 1, 2010.

(v) If the circumstances specified in paragraph (vi) exist, the guaranty agency shall refund to the lender any insurance premium or Federal default fee paid by the lender.

(vi) The lender shall refund to the borrower by a credit against the borrower's loan balance the insurance premium or Federal default fee paid by the borrower on a loan under the following circumstances:

(A) The insurance premium or Federal default fee attributable to each disbursement of a loan must be refunded if the loan check is returned uncashed to the lender.

(B) The insurance premium or Federal default fee, or an appropriate prorated amount of the premium or fee, must be refunded by application to the borrower's loan balance if-
