
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.401 Basic program agreement.
####### Review of forms and procedures.

(c)(1) The guaranty agency shall submit to the Secretary its write-off criteria and procedures. The agency may not use these materials until the Secretary approves them.

(2) The guaranty agency shall promptly submit to the Secretary its regulations, statements of procedures and standards, agreements, and other materials that substantially affect the operation of the agency's program, and any proposed changes to those materials. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the agency may use these materials unless and until the Secretary disapproves them.

(3) The guaranty agency must use common application forms, promissory notes, Master Promissory Notes (MPN), and other common forms approved by the Secretary. Each loan made under an MPN is enforceable in accordance with the terms of the MPN and is eligible for claim payment based on a true and exact copy of such MPN.

(4) The guaranty agency must develop and implement appropriate procedures that provide for the granting of a student deferment as specified in ยง 682.210(a)(6)(iv) and (c)(3) and require their lenders to use these procedures.

(5) The guaranty agency shall ensure that all program materials meet the requirements of Federal and State law, including, but not limited to, the Act and the regulations in this part and part 668.
