
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.402 Death, disability, closed school, false certification, unpaid refunds, and bankruptcy payments.
####### Death.

(b)(1) If an individual borrower dies, or the student for whom a parent received a PLUS loan dies, the obligation of the borrower and any endorser to make any further payments on the loan is discharged.

(2)(i) A discharge of a loan based on the death of the borrower (or student in the case of a PLUS loan) must be based on-

(A) An original or certified copy of the death certificate;

(B) An accurate and complete photocopy of the original or certified copy of the death certificate;

(C) An accurate and complete original or certified copy of the death certificate that is scanned and submitted electronically or sent by facsimile transmission; or

(D) Verification of the borrower's or student's death through an authoritative Federal or State electronic database approved for use by the Secretary.

(ii) Under exceptional circumstances and on a case-by-case basis, the chief executive officer of the guaranty agency may approve a discharge based upon other reliable documentation of the borrower's or student's death.

(3) After receiving reliable information indicating that the borrower (or student) has died, the lender must suspend any collection activity against the borrower and any endorser for up to 60 days and promptly request the documentation described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If additional time is required to obtain the documentation, the period of suspension of collection activity may be extended up to an additional 60 days. If the lender is not able to obtain an original or certified copy of the death certificate, or an accurate and complete photocopy of the original or certified copy of the death certificate or other documentation acceptable to the guaranty agency, under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, during the period of suspension, the lender must resume collection activity from the point that it had been discontinued. The lender is deemed to have exercised forbearance as to repayment of the loan during the period when collection activity was suspended.

(4) Once the lender has determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section that the borrower (or student) has died, the lender may not attempt to collect on the loan from the borrower's estate or from any endorser.

(5) The lender shall return to the sender any payments received from the estate or paid on behalf of the borrower after the date of the borrower's (or student's) death.

(6) In the case of a Federal Consolidation Loan that includes a Federal PLUS or Direct PLUS loan borrowed for a dependent who has died, the obligation of the borrower or any endorser to make any further payments on the portion of the outstanding balance of the Consolidation Loan attributable to the Federal PLUS or Direct PLUS loan is discharged as of the date of the dependent's death.
