
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.402 Death, disability, closed school, false certification, unpaid refunds, and bankruptcy payments.
####### Notifications and return of payments.

(11)(i) After determining that a borrower qualifies for a total and permanent disability discharge under paragraph (c)(10) of this section, the Secretary sends a notification to the borrower informing the borrower that the Secretary will discharge the borrower's title IV loans unless the borrower notifies the Secretary, by a date specified in the Secretary's notification, that the borrower does not wish to receive the loan discharge.

(ii) Unless the borrower notifies the Secretary that the borrower does not wish to receive the discharge, the Secretary notifies the borrower's loan holders that the borrower has been approved for a disability discharge. With this notification the Secretary provides the effective date of the determination by VA or the date the Secretary received the SSA notice of award for SSDI or SSI benefits, and directs the holder of each FFELP loan made to the borrower to submit a disability claim to the guaranty agency in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) If the claim meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section and ยง 682.406, the guaranty agency pays the claim and must-

(A) Discharge the loan, in the case of a discharge based on data from VA; or

(B) Assign the loan to the Secretary, in the case of a discharge based on data from the SSA.

(iv) The Secretary reimburses the guaranty agency for a disability claim after the agency pays the claim to the lender.

(v) Upon receipt of the claim payment from the guaranty agency, the loan holder returns to the person who made the payments any payments received on or after-

(A) The effective date of the determination by VA that the borrower is unemployable due to a service-connected disability; or

(B) The date the Secretary received the SSA notice of award for SSDI or SSI benefits.

(vi) For a loan that is assigned to the Secretary for discharge based on data from the SSA, the Secretary discharges the loan in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.

(vii) If the borrower notifies the Secretary that they do not wish to receive the discharge, the borrower will remain responsible for repayment of the borrower's loans in accordance with the terms and conditions of the promissory notes that the borrower signed.
