
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.402 Death, disability, closed school, false certification, unpaid refunds, and bankruptcy payments.
####### Claim procedures for a loan held by a lender,Documentation.

(g)-(1)A lender shall provide the guaranty agency with the following documentation when filing a death, disability, closed school, false certification, or bankruptcy claim:

(i) The original or a true and exact copy of the promissory note.

(ii) The loan application, if a separate loan application was provided to the lender.

(iii) In the case of a death claim, an original or certified death certificate, or other documentation supporting the discharge request that formed the basis for the determination of death.

(iv) In the case of a disability claim, a copy of the notification described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) or (c)(9)(ix) of this section in which the Secretary notifies the lender that the borrower is totally and permanently disabled.

(v) In the case of a bankruptcy claim-

(A) Evidence that a bankruptcy petition has been filed, all pertinent documents sent to or received from the bankruptcy court by the lender, and an assignment to the guaranty agency of any proof of claim filed by the lender regarding the loan; and

(B) A statement of any facts of which the lender is aware that may form the basis for an objection or exception to the discharge of the borrower's loan obligation in bankruptcy and all documents supporting those facts.

(vi) In the case of a closed school claim, the documentation described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, or any other documentation as the Secretary may require;

(vii) In the case of a false certification claim, the documentation described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
