
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.402 Death, disability, closed school, false certification, unpaid refunds, and bankruptcy payments.
####### Unpaid refund discharge procedures.

(5)(i) Except for the requirements of paragraph (l)(5)(iv) of this section related to an open school, if the holder or guaranty agency learns that a school did not pay a refund of loan proceeds owed under applicable law and regulations, the holder or the guaranty agency sends the borrower a discharge application and an explanation of the qualifications and procedures for obtaining a discharge. The holder of the loan also promptly suspends any efforts to collect from the borrower on any affected loan.

(ii) If the borrower returns the application, specified in paragraph (l)(4) of this section, the holder or the guaranty agency must review the application to determine whether the application appears to be complete. In the case of a loan held by a lender, once the lender determines that the application appears complete, it must provide the application and all pertinent information to the guaranty agency including, if available, the borrower's last date of attendance. If the borrower returns the application within 60 days, the lender must extend the period during which efforts to collect on the affected loan are suspended to the date the lender receives either a denial of the request or the unpaid refund amount from the guaranty agency. At the conclusion of the period during which the collection activity was suspended, the lender may capitalize any interest accrued and not paid during that period in accordance with ยง 682.202(b).

(iii) If the borrower fails to return the application within 60 days, the holder of the loan resumes collection efforts and grants forbearance of principal and interest for the period during which the collection activity was suspended. The holder may capitalize any interest accrued and not paid during that period in accordance with ยง 682.202(b).

(iv) The guaranty agency may, with the approval of the Secretary, discharge a portion of a loan under this section without an application if the guaranty agency determines, based on information in the guaranty agency's possession, that the borrower qualifies for a discharge.

(v) If the holder of the loan or the guaranty agency determines that the information contained in its files conflicts with the information provided by the borrower, the guaranty agency must use the most reliable information available to it to determine eligibility for and the appropriate payment of the refund amount.

(vi) If the holder of the loan is the guaranty agency and the agency determines that the borrower qualifies for a discharge of an unpaid refund, the guaranty agency must suspend any efforts to collect on the affected loan and, within 30 days of its determination, discharge the appropriate amount and inform the borrower of its determination. Absent documentation of the exact amount of refund due the borrower, the guaranty agency must calculate the amount of the unpaid refund using the unpaid refund calculation defined in paragraph (o) of this section.

(vii) If the guaranty agency determines that a borrower does not qualify for an unpaid refund discharge, (or, if the holder is the lender and is informed by the guarantor that the borrower does not qualify for a discharge)-

(A) Within 30 days of the guarantor's determination, the agency must notify the borrower in writing of the reason for the determination and of the borrower's right to request a review of the agency's determination. The guaranty agency must make a determination within 30 days of the borrower's submission of additional documentation supporting the borrower's eligibility that was not considered in any prior determination. During the review period, collection activities must be suspended; and

(B) The holder must resume collection if the determination remains unchanged and grant forbearance of principal and interest for any period during which collection activity was suspended under this section. The holder may capitalize any interest accrued and not paid during these periods in accordance with ยง 682.202(b).

(viii) If the guaranty agency determines that a current or former borrower at an open school may be eligible for a discharge under this section, the guaranty agency must notify the lender and the school of the unpaid refund allegation. The notice to the school must include all pertinent facts available to the guaranty agency regarding the alleged unpaid refund. The school must, no later than 60 days after receiving the notice, provide the guaranty agency with documentation demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the guarantor, that the alleged unpaid refund was either paid or not required to be paid.

(ix) In the case of a school that does not make a refund or provide sufficient documentation demonstrating the refund was either paid or was not required, within 60 days of its receipt of the allegation notice from the guaranty agency, relief is provided to the borrower (and any endorser) if the guaranty agency determines the relief is appropriate. The agency must forward documentation of the school's failure to pay the unpaid refund to the Secretary.
