
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.402 Death, disability, closed school, false certification, unpaid refunds, and bankruptcy payments.
####### Determination of amount eligible for discharge.

(o)(1)The guaranty agency determines the amount eligible for discharge based on information showing the refund amount or by applying the appropriate refund formula to information that the borrower provides or that is otherwise available to the guaranty agency. For purposes of this section, all unpaid refunds are considered to be attributed to loan proceeds.

(2) If the information in paragraph (o)(1) of this section is not available, the guaranty agency uses the following formulas to determine the amount eligible for discharge:

(i) In the case of a student who fails to attend or whose withdrawal or termination date is before October 7, 2000 and who completes less than 60 percent of the loan period, the guaranty agency discharges the lesser of the institutional charges unearned or the loan amount. The guaranty agency determines the amount of the institutional charges unearned by-

(A) Calculating the ratio of the amount of time in the loan period after the student's last day of attendance to the actual length of the loan period; and

(B) Multiplying the resulting factor by the institutional charges assessed the student for the loan period.

(ii) In the case of a student who fails to attend or whose withdrawal or termination date is on or after October 7, 2000 and who completes less than 60 percent of the loan period, the guaranty agency discharges the loan amount unearned. The guaranty agency determines the loan amount unearned by-

(A) Calculating the ratio of the amount of time remaining in the loan period after the student's last day of attendance to the actual length of the loan period; and

(B) Multiplying the resulting factor by the total amount of title IV grants and loans received by the student, or if unknown, the loan amount.

(iii) In the case of a student who completes 60 percent or more of the loan period, the guaranty agency does not discharge any amount because a student who completes 60 percent or more of the loan period is not entitled to a refund.
