
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.402 Death, disability, closed school, false certification, unpaid refunds, and bankruptcy payments.
####### Payments received after the Secretary's payment of a death, disability, closed school, false certification, or bankruptcy claim

(r)(1) If the guaranty agency receives any payments from or on behalf of the borrower on or attributable to a loan that has been discharged in bankruptcy on which the Secretary previously paid a bankruptcy claim, the guaranty agency must return 100 percent of these payments to the sender. The guaranty agency must promptly return, to the sender, any payment on a cancelled or discharged loan made by the sender and received after the Secretary pays a closed school or false certification claim. At the same time that the agency returns the payment, it must notify the borrower that there is no obligation to repay a loan discharged on the basis of death, bankruptcy, false certification, or closing of the school.

(2) If the guaranty agency receives any payments from or on behalf of the borrower on or attributable to a loan that has been assigned to the Secretary based on the determination that the borrower is eligible for a total and permanent disability discharge, the guaranty agency must promptly return these payments to the sender. At the same time that the agency returns the payments, it must notify the borrower that there is no obligation to make payments on the loan after it has been discharged due to a total and permanent disability, unless the loan is reinstated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, or the Secretary directs the borrower otherwise.

(3) When the Secretary discharges the loan, the Secretary returns to the sender any payments received by the Secretary on the loan after the date the borrower became totally and permanently disabled.

(4) The guaranty agency shall remit to the Secretary all payments received from a tuition recovery fund, performance bond, or other third party with respect to a loan on which the Secretary previously paid a closed school or false certification claim.

(5) If the guaranty agency has returned a payment to the borrower, or the borrower's representative, with the notice described in paragraphs (r)(1) or (r)(2) of this section, and the borrower (or representative) continues to send payments to the guaranty agency, the agency must remit all of those payments to the Secretary.
