
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.405 Loan rehabilitation agreement.
####### 11

() Other expenses approved by the Secretary.

(viii) The guaranty agency must provide the borrower with a new written rehabilitation agreement confirming the borrower's recalculated reasonable and affordable payment amount within the timeframe specified in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section. To accept the agreement, the borrower must sign and return the agreement or accept the agreement electronically under a process provided by the agency.

(ix) The agency must include any payment made under ยง 682.401(b)(1) in determining whether the 9 out of 10 payments required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section have been made.

(x) A borrower may request that the monthly payment amount be adjusted due to a change in the borrower's total financial circumstances only upon providing the documentation specified in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section.

(xi) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, during the rehabilitation period, the guaranty agency must limit contact with the borrower on the loan being rehabilitated to collection activities that are required by law or regulation and to communications that support the rehabilitation.

(2)(i) For the purposes of this section, payment in the full amount required means payment of an amount that is reasonable and affordable, based on the borrower's total financial circumstances, as agreed to by the borrower and the agency. Voluntary payments are those made directly by the borrower and do not include payments obtained by Federal offset, garnishment, income or asset execution, or after a judgment has been entered on a loan. A guaranty agency must attempt to secure a lender to purchase the loan at the end of the 9- or 10-month payment period as applicable.

(ii) If the guaranty agency has been unable to sell the loan, the guaranty agency must assign the loan to the Secretary.

(3) Upon the sale of a rehabilitated loan to an eligible lender or assignment to the Secretary-

(i) The guaranty agency must, within 45 days of the sale or assignment-

(A) Provide notice to the prior holder of such sale or assignment, and

(B) Request that any consumer reporting agency to which the default was reported remove the record of default from the borrower's credit history.

(ii) The prior holder of the loan must, within 30 days of receiving the notification from the guaranty agency, request that any consumer reporting agency to which the default claim payment or other equivalent record was reported remove such record from the borrower's credit history.

(4)(i) An eligible lender purchasing a rehabilitated loan must establish a repayment schedule that meets the same requirements that are applicable to other FFEL Program loans of the same loan type as the rehabilitated loan and must permit the borrower to choose any statutorily available repayment plan for that loan type. The lender must treat the first payment made under the nine payments as the first payment under the applicable maximum repayment term, as defined under ยง 682.209(a) or (e). For Consolidation loans, the maximum repayment term is based on the balance outstanding at the time of loan rehabilitation.

(ii) The lender must not consider the purchase of a rehabilitated loan as entry into repayment or resumption of repayment for the purposes of interest capitalization under ยง 682.202(b).

(c) A guaranty agency must make available to the borrower-

(1) During the loan rehabilitation period, information about repayment plans, including the income-based repayment plan, that may be available to the borrower upon rehabilitating the defaulted loan and how the borrower can select a repayment plan after the loan is purchased by an eligible lender or assigned to the Secretary; and

(2) After the successful completion of the loan rehabilitation period, financial and economic education materials, including debt management information.
