
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.407 Discharge of student loan indebtedness for survivors of victims of the September 11, 2001, attacks.
####### September 11 survivors discharge.

(b)(1) The obligation of a borrower and any endorser to make any further payments on an eligible FFEL Program Loan is discharged if the borrower was, at the time of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, and currently is, the spouse of an eligible public servant, unless the eligible public servant has died. If the eligible public servant has died, the borrower must have been the spouse of the eligible public servant at the time of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and until the date the eligible public servant died.

(2) The obligation of a borrower to make any further payments towards the portion of a joint FFEL Consolidation Loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim is discharged if the borrower was, at the time of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, and currently is, the spouse of an eligible victim, unless the eligible victim has died. If the eligible victim has died, the borrower must have been the spouse of the eligible victim at the time of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and until the date the eligible victim died.

(3) If the borrower is an eligible parent-

(i) The obligation of a borrower and any endorser to make any further payments on a FFEL PLUS Loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim is discharged.

(ii) The obligation of the borrower to make any further payments towards the portion of a FFEL Consolidation Loan that repaid a FFEL or Direct Loan PLUS Loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim is discharged.

(4) The parent of an eligible public servant may qualify for a discharge of a FFEL PLUS loan incurred on behalf of the eligible public servant, or the portion of a FFEL Consolidation Loan that repaid a FFEL or Direct PLUS Loan incurred on behalf of the eligible public servant, under the procedures, eligibility criteria, and documentation requirements described in this section for an eligible parent applying for a discharge of a loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim.
