
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.407 Discharge of student loan indebtedness for survivors of victims of the September 11, 2001, attacks.
####### Applying for discharge.

(c)(1) In accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(13) of this section, a discharge may be granted on-

(i) A FFEL Program Loan owed by the spouse of an eligible public servant;

(ii) A FFEL PLUS Loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim;

(iii) The portion of a FFEL Consolidation Loan that repaid a PLUS loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim; and

(iv) The portion of a joint Consolidation Loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim.

(2) After being notified by the borrower that the borrower claims to qualify for a discharge under this section, the lender shall suspend collection activity on the borrower's eligible FFEL Program Loan and promptly request that the borrower submit a request for discharge on a form approved by the Secretary.

(3) If the lender determines that the borrower does not qualify for a discharge under this section, or the lender does not receive the completed discharge request form from the borrower within 60 days of the borrower notifying the lender that the borrower claims to qualify for a discharge, the lender shall resume collection and shall be deemed to have exercised forbearance of payment of both principal and interest from the date the lender was notified by the borrower. The lender must notify the borrower that the application for the discharge has been denied, provide the basis for the denial, and inform the borrower that the lender will resume collection on the loan. The lender may capitalize, in accordance with ยง 682.202(b), any interest accrued and not paid during this period.

(4) If the lender determines that the borrower qualifies for a discharge under this section, the lender shall provide the guaranty agency with the following documentation-

(i) The loan application, if a separate loan application was provided to the lender; and

(ii) The completed discharge form, and all accompanying documentation supporting the discharge request that formed the basis for the determination that the borrower qualifies for a discharge.

(5) The lender must file a discharge claim within 60 days of the date on which the lender determines that the borrower qualifies for a discharge.

(6) The guaranty agency must review a discharge claim under this section promptly.

(7) If the guaranty agency determines that the borrower does not qualify for a discharge under this section, the guaranty agency must return the claim to the lender with an explanation of the basis for the agency's denial of the claim. Upon receipt of the returned claim, the lender must notify the borrower that the application for the discharge has been denied, provide the basis for the denial, and inform the borrower that the lender will resume collection on the loan. The lender is deemed to have exercised forbearance of both principal and interest from the date collection activity was suspended until the next payment due date. The lender may capitalize, in accordance with ยง 682.202(b), any interest accrued and not paid during this period.

(8) If the guaranty agency determines that the borrower qualifies for a discharge, the guaranty agency pays the lender on an approved claim the amount of loss required under paragraph (c)(9) of this section. The guaranty agency shall pay the claim not later than 90 days after the claim was filed by the lender.

(9) The amount of loss payable on a discharge claim is-

(i) An amount equal to the sum of the remaining principal balance and interest accrued on the loan, unpaid collection costs incurred by the lender and applied to the borrower's account within 30 days of the date those costs were actually incurred, and unpaid interest up to the date the lender should have filed the claim; or

(ii) In the case of a partial discharge of a Consolidation Loan, the amount specified in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section for the portion of the Consolidation Loan incurred on behalf of the eligible victim.

(10) The amount payable on an approved claim includes the unpaid interest that accrues during the following periods:

(i) During the period before the claim is filed, not to exceed 60 days from the date the lender determines that the borrower qualifies for a discharge under this section.

(ii) During a period not to exceed 30 days following the date the lender receives a claim returned by the guaranty agency for additional documentation necessary for the claim to be approved by the guaranty agency.

(iii) During the period required by the guaranty agency to approve the claim and to authorize payment or to return the claim to the lender for additional documentation, not to exceed 90 days.

(11) After being notified that the guaranty agency has paid a discharge claim, the lender shall notify the borrower that the loan has been discharged or, in the case of a partial discharge of a Consolidation Loan, partially discharged. Except in the case of a partial discharge of a Consolidation Loan, the lender shall return to the sender any payments received by the lender after the date the guaranty agency paid the discharge claim.

(12) The Secretary reimburses the guaranty agency for a discharge claim paid to the lender under this section after the agency pays the lender. Any failure by the lender to satisfy due diligence requirements prior to the filing of the claim that would have resulted in the loss of reinsurance on the loan in the event of default are waived by the Secretary, provided the loan was held by an eligible loan holder at all times.

(13) Except in the case of a partial discharge of a Consolidation Loan, the guaranty agency shall promptly return to the sender any payment on a discharged loan made by the sender and received after the Secretary pays a discharge claim. At the same time that the agency returns the payment it shall notify the borrower that the loan has been discharged and that there is no further obligation to repay the loan.

(14) A FFEL Program Loan owed by an eligible public servant or an eligible victim may be discharged under the procedures in ยง 682.402 for a discharge based on the death or total and permanent disability of the eligible public servant or eligible victim.
