
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### § 682.407 Discharge of student loan indebtedness for survivors of victims of the September 11, 2001, attacks.
####### Limitations on discharge.

(g)(1) Only outstanding Federal SLS Loans, Federal Stafford Loans, Federal PLUS Loans, and Federal Consolidation Loans for which amounts were owed on September 11, 2001, or outstanding Federal Consolidation Loans incurred to pay off loan amounts that were owed on September 11, 2001, are eligible for discharge under this section.

(2)(i) Eligibility for a discharge under this section does not qualify a borrower for a refund of any payments made on the borrower's loan prior to the date the loan was discharged.

(ii) A borrower may apply for a partial discharge of a joint Consolidation loan due to death or total and permanent disability under the procedures in § 682.402(b) or (c). If the borrower is granted a partial discharge under the procedures in § 682.402(b) or (c) the borrower may qualify for a refund of payments in accordance with § 682.402(b)(5) or § 682.402(c)(1)(i).

(iii) A borrower may apply for a discharge of a PLUS loan due to the death of the student for whom the borrower received the PLUS loan under the procedures in § 682.402(b). If a borrower is granted a discharge under the procedures in § 682.402(b), the borrower may qualify for a refund of payments in accordance with § 682.402(b)(5).

(3) A determination by a lender or a guaranty agency that an eligible public servant or an eligible victim became permanently and totally disabled due to injuries suffered in the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 for purposes of this section does not qualify the eligible public servant or the eligible victim for a discharge based on a total and permanent disability under § 682.402.

(4) The spouse of an eligible public servant or eligible victim may not receive a discharge under this section if the eligible public servant or eligible victim has been identified as a participant or conspirator in the terrorist-related aircraft crashes on September 11, 2001. An eligible parent may not receive a discharge on a FFEL PLUS Loan or on a Consolidation Loan that was used to repay a FFEL or Direct Loan PLUS Loan incurred on behalf of an individual who has been identified as a participant or conspirator in the terrorist-related aircraft crashes on September 11, 2001.
