
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.409 Mandatory assignment by guaranty agencies of defaulted loans to the Secretary.

(a)(1) If the Secretary determines that action is necessary to protect the Federal fiscal interest, the Secretary directs a guaranty agency to promptly assign to the Secretary any loans held by the agency on which the agency has received payment under ยง 682.402(f), 682.402(k), or 682.404. The collection of unpaid loans owed by Federal employees by Federal salary offset is, among other things, deemed to be in the Federal fiscal interest. Unless the Secretary notifies an agency, in writing, that other loans must be assigned to the Secretary, an agency must assign any loan that meets all of the following criteria as of April 15 of each year:

(i) The unpaid principal balance is at least $100.

(ii) For each of the two fiscal years following the fiscal year in which these regulations are effective, the loan, and any other loans held by the agency for that borrower, have been held by the agency for at least four years; for any subsequent fiscal year such loan must have been held by the agency for at least five years.

(iii) A payment has not been received on the loan in the last year.

(iv) A judgment has not been entered on the loan against the borrower.

(2) If the agency fails to meet a fiscal year recovery rate standard under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section for a loan type, and the Secretary determines that additional assignments are necessary to protect the Federal fiscal interest, the Secretary may require the agency to assign in addition to those loans described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, loans in amounts needed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) or (a)(3)(i) of this section.
