
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.409 Mandatory assignment by guaranty agencies of defaulted loans to the Secretary.
####### Denial of an agency's petition.

(ii)If the Secretary does not accept the agency's petition, the Secretary provides, in writing, to the agency the Secretary's reasons for concluding that the Federal fiscal interest is best protected by requiring the assignment.

(b)(1) A guaranty agency that assigns a defaulted loan to the Secretary under this section thereby releases all rights and title to that loan. The Secretary does not pay the guaranty agency any compensation for a loan assigned under this section.

(2) The guaranty agency does not share in any amounts received by the Secretary on a loan assigned under this section, regardless of the reinsurance percentage paid on the loan or the agency's previous collection costs.

(c)(1) A guaranty agency must assign a loan to the Secretary under this section at the time, in the manner, and with the information and documentation that the Secretary requires. The agency must submit this information and documentation in the form (including magnetic media) and format specified by the Secretary.

(2) The guaranty agency must execute an assignment to the United States of America of all right, title, and interest in the promissory note or judgment evidencing a loan assigned under this section. If more than one loan is made under an MPN, the assignment of the note only applies to the loan or loans being assigned to the Secretary.

(3) If the agency does not provide the required information and documentation in the form and format required by the Secretary, the Secretary may, at his option-

(i) Allow the agency to revise the agency's submission to include the required information and documentation in the specified form and format;

(ii) In the case of an improperly formatted computer tape, reformat the tape and assess the cost of the activity against the agency;

(iii) Reorganize the material submitted and assess the cost of that activity against the agency; or

(iv) Obtain from other agency records and add to the agency's submission any information from the original submission, and assess the cost of that activity against the agency.

(4) For each loan assigned, the agency shall submit to the Secretary the following documents associated for each loan, assembled in the order listed below:

(i) The original or a true and exact copy of the promissory note.

(ii) Any documentation of a judgment entered on the loan.

(iii) A written assignment of the loan or judgment, unless this assignment is affixed to the promissory note.

(iv) The loan application, if a separate application was provided to the lender.

(v) A payment history for the loan, as described in ยง 682.414(a)(1)(ii)(C).

(vi) A collection history for the loan, as described in ยง 682.414(a)(1)(ii)(D).

(vii) The record of the lender's disbursement of Stafford and PLUS loan funds to the school for delivery to the borrower.

(viii) If the MPN or promissory note was signed electronically, the name and location of the entity in possession of the original electronic MPN or promissory note.

(5) The agency may submit copies of required documents in lieu of originals.

(6) The Secretary may accept the assignment of a loan without all of the documents listed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If directed to do so, the agency must retain these documents for submission to the Secretary at some future date.

(d)(1) If the Secretary determines that the agency has not submitted a document or record required by paragraph (c) of this section, and the Secretary decides to allow the agency an additional opportunity to submit the omitted document under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the Secretary notifies the agency and provides a reasonable period of time for the agency to submit the omitted record or document.

(2) If the omitted document is not submitted within the time specified by the Secretary, the Secretary determines whether that omission impairs the Secretary's ability to collect the loan.

(3) If the Secretary determines that the ability to collect the loan has been impaired under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the Secretary assesses the agency the amount paid to the agency under the reinsurance agreement and accrued interest at the rate applicable to the borrower under ยง 682.410(b)(3).

(4) The Secretary reassigns to the agency that portion of the loan determined to be unenforceable by the Department.
