
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 76 - STATE-ADMINISTERED PROGRAMS
#### Subpart G - What Are the Administrative Responsibilities of the State and Its Subgrantees?
##### General Administrative Responsibilities
###### ยง 76.704 New State plan requirements that must be addressed in a State plan.

(a) This section specifies the State plan requirements that must be addressed in a State plan if the State plan requirements established in statutes or regulations change on a date close to the date that State plans are due for submission to the Department.

(b)(1) A State plan must meet the following requirements:

(i) Every State plan requirement in effect three months before the date the State plan is due to be submitted to the Department under 34 CFR 76.703; and

(ii) Every State plan requirement included in statutes or regulations that will be effective on or before the date that funds become available for obligation by the Secretary and that have been signed into law or published in theas final regulations three months before the date the State plan is due to be submitted to the Department under 34 CFR 76.703.

(2) If a State plan does not have to meet a new State plan requirement under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Secretary takes one of the following actions:

(i) Require the State to submit assurances and appropriate documentation to show that the new requirements are being followed under the program.

(ii) Extend the date for submission of State plans and approve pre-award costs as necessary to hold the State harmless.

(3) If the Secretary requires a State to submit assurances under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the State shall incorporate changes to the State plan as soon as possible to comply with the new requirements. The State shall submit the necessary changes before the start of the next obligation period.
