
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.413 Remedial actions.
####### 2

() The lender has not paid, or made satisfactory arrangements to pay, the liability.

(b)(1) The Secretary requires a guaranty agency to repay reinsurance payments received on a loan if the lender, third-party servicer, if applicable, or the agency failed to meet the requirements of ยง 682.406(a).

(2) The Secretary may require a guaranty agency to repay reinsurance payments received on a loan or to assign FFEL loans to the Department if the agency fails to meet the requirements of ยง 682.410.

(c)(1) In addition to requiring repayment of reinsurance payments pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary may take one or more of the following remedial actions against a guaranty agency or third-party servicer administering any aspect of the FFEL programs under a contract with the guaranty agency, that makes an incomplete or incorrect statement in connection with any agreement entered into under this part or violates any applicable Federal requirement:

(i) Require the agency to return payments made by the Secretary to the agency.

(ii) Withhold payments to the agency.

(iii) Limit the terms and conditions of the agency's continued participation in the FFEL programs.

(iv) Suspend or terminate agreements with the agency.

(v) Impose a fine on the agency or servicer. For purposes of assessing a fine on a third-party servicer, a repeated mechanical systemic unintentional error shall be counted as one violation, unless the servicer has been cited for a similar violation previously and had failed to make the appropriate corrections to the system.

(vi) Require repayment from the agency and servicer pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of interest, special allowance, and reinsurance paid on Consolidation loan amounts attributed to Consolidation loans for which the required lender verification certification is not available.

(vii) Require repayment from the agency or servicer, pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of any related payments that the Secretary became obligated to make to others as a result of an incomplete or incorrect statement or a violation of an applicable Federal requirement.

(2) For purposes of this section, a guaranty agency and any applicable third-party servicer shall be considered jointly and severally liable for the repayment of any interest benefits, special allowance, reinsurance paid, or other compensation on Consolidation loan amounts attributed to Consolidation loans as specified in ยง 682.413(c)(1)(vi) as a result of a violation by the servicer administering any aspect of the FFEL programs under a contract with that guaranty agency.

(3) For purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the relevant third-party servicer shall repay any outstanding liabilities under paragraph (c)(2) of this section only if-

(i) The Secretary has determined that the servicer is jointly and severally liable for the liabilities; and

(ii) (A) The guaranty agency has not repaid in full the amount of the liability within 30 days from the date the guaranty agency receives notice from the Secretary of the liability;

(B) The guaranty agency has not made other satisfactory arrangements to pay the amount of the liability within 30 days from the date the guaranty agency receives notice from the Secretary of the liability; or

(C) The Secretary is unable to collect the liability from the guaranty agency by offsetting the guaranty agency's first reinsurance claim to the Secretary, if-
