
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.413 Remedial actions.
####### 2

() The guaranty agency has not paid, or made satisfactory arrangements to pay, the liability.

(d)(1) The Secretary follows the procedures described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, applicable to fine proceedings against schools, in imposing a fine against a lender, guaranty agency, or third-party servicer. References to "the institution" in those regulations shall be understood to mean the lender, guaranty agency, or third-party servicer, as applicable, for this purpose.

(2) The Secretary also follows the provisions of section 432(g) of the Act in imposing a fine against a guaranty agency or lender.

(e)(1)(i) The Secretary's decision to require repayment of funds, withhold funds, or to limit or suspend a lender, guaranty agency, or third party servicer from participation in the FFEL Program or to terminate a lender or third party from participation in the FFEL Program does not become final until the Secretary provides the lender, agency, or servicer with written notice of the intended action and an opportunity to be heard. The hearing is at a time and in a manner the Secretary determines to be appropriate to the resolution of the issues on which the lender, agency, or servicer requests the hearing.

(ii) The Secretary's decision to terminate a guaranty agency's participation in the FFEL Program after September 24, 1998 does not become final until the Secretary provides the agency with written notice of the intended action and provides an opportunity for a hearing on the record.

(2)(i) The Secretary may withhold payments from an agency or suspend an agreement with an agency prior to giving notice and an opportunity to be heard if the Secretary finds that emergency action is necessary to prevent substantial harm to Federal interests.

(ii) The Secretary follows the notice and show cause procedures described in ยง 682.704 applicable to emergency actions against lenders in taking an emergency action against a guaranty agency.

(3) The Secretary follows the procedures in 34 CFR 30.20-30.32 in collecting a debt by offset against payments otherwise due a guaranty agency or lender.

(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)-(e) of this section, the Secretary may waive the right to require repayment of funds by a lender or agency if in the Secretary's judgment the best interests of the United States so require. The Secretary's waiver policy for violations of ยง 682.406(a)(3) or (a)(5) is set forth in appendix D to this part.

(g) The Secretary's final decision to require repayment of funds or to take other remedial action, other than a fine, against a lender or guaranty agency under this section is conclusive and binding on the lender or agency.

(h) In any action to require repayment of funds or to withhold funds from a guaranty agency, or to limit, suspend, or terminate a guaranty agency based on a violation of section 428(b)(3) of the Act, if the Secretary finds that the guaranty agency provided or offered the prohibited payments or activities, the Secretary applies a rebuttable presumption that the payments or activities were offered or provided to secure applications for FFEL loans or to secure FFEL loan volume. To reverse the presumption, the guaranty agency must present evidence that the activities or payments were provided for a reason unrelated to securing applications for FFEL loans or securing FFEL loan volume.
