
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 682 - FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency
###### ยง 682.414 Records, reports, and inspection requirements for guaranty agency programs.
####### Reports.

(b)A guaranty agency shall accurately complete and submit to the Secretary the following reports:

(1) A report concerning the status of the agency's reserve fund and the operation of the agency's loan guarantee program at the time and in the manner that the Secretary may reasonably require. The Secretary does not pay the agency any funds, the amount of which are determined by reference to data in the report, until a complete and accurate report is received.

(2) Annually, for each State in which it operates, a report of the total guaranteed loan volume, default volume, and default rate for each of the following categories of originating lenders on all loans guaranteed after December 31, 1980:

(i) State or private nonprofit lenders.

(ii) Commercial financial institutions (banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions).

(iii) All other types of lenders.

(3) By July 1 of each year, a report on-

(i) Its eligibility criteria for lenders;

(ii) Its procedures for the limitation, suspension, and termination of lenders;

(iii) Any actions taken in the preceding 12 months to limit, suspend, or terminate the participation of a lender in the agency's program; and

(iv) The steps the agency has taken to ensure its compliance with ยง 682.410(c), including the identity of any law enforcement agency with which the agency has made arrangements for that purpose.

(4) A report to the Secretary of the borrower's enrollment and loan status information, or any Title IV loan-related data required by the Secretary, by the deadline date established by the Secretary.

(5) Any other information concerning its loan insurance program requested by the Secretary.
