
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart A-Purpose and Scope
###### ยง 685.100 The William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program.

(a) Under the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program (formerly known as the Federal Direct Student Loan Program), the Secretary makes loans to enable a student or parent to pay the costs of the student's attendance at a postsecondary school. This part governs the Federal Direct Stafford/Ford Loan Program, the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford/Ford Loan Program, the Federal Direct PLUS Program, and the Federal Direct Consolidation Loan Program. The Secretary makes loans under the following program components:

(1)(i) Federal Direct Stafford/Ford Loan Program (Direct Subsidized Loan Program), which provides loans to undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. Loans made under this program are referred to as Direct Subsidized Loans. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the Secretary subsidizes the interest while the borrower is in an in-school, grace, or deferment period. Graduate and professional students are not eligible to receive Direct Subsidized Loans for any period of enrollment beginning on or after July 1, 2012.

(ii) The Secretary does not subsidize the interest that accrues during the grace period on any Direct Subsidized Loan for which the first disbursement is made on or after July 1, 2012 and before July 1, 2014.

(2) Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford/Ford Loan Program (Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program), which provides loans to undergraduate, graduate and professional students. Loans made under this program are referred to as Direct Unsubsidized Loans. The borrower is responsible for the interest that accrues during any period.

(3) Federal Direct PLUS Program (Direct PLUS Loan Program), which provides loans to parents of dependent students and to graduate or professional students. Loans made under this program are referred to as Direct PLUS Loans. The borrower is responsible for the interest that accrues during any period.

(4) Federal Direct Consolidation Loan Program (Direct Consolidation Loan Program), which provides loans to borrowers to consolidate certain Federal educational loans. Loans made under this program are referred to as Direct Consolidation Loans.

(b) The Secretary makes a Direct Subsidized Loan, a Direct Unsubsidized Loan, or a Direct PLUS Loan only to a student or a parent of a student enrolled in a school that participates in the Direct Loan Program.

(c) The Secretary makes a Direct Consolidation Loan only to a borrower who is consolidating at least one loan made under the Direct Loan Program or the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program.
