
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.202 Charges for which Direct Loan Program borrowers are responsible.
####### Applicability of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA)(50 U.S.C. 527, App. sec. 207).

(11)Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section, upon the Secretary's receipt of evidence of the borrower's military service, the maximum interest rate under 50 U.S.C. 527, App. section 207(a), on Direct Loan Program loans made prior to the borrower entering military service status is six percent while the borrower is in military service. For purposes of this paragraph, the interest rate includes any other charges or fees applied to the loan. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(11), the term "military service" means-

(i) In the case of a servicemember who is a member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard-

(A) Active duty, meaning full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. Such term includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in the active military service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned. Such term does not include full-time National Guard duty.

(B) In the case of a member of the National Guard, including service under a call to active service, which means service on active duty or full-time National Guard duty, authorized by the President or the Secretary of Defense for a period of more than 30 consecutive days for purposes of responding to a national emergency declared by the President and supported by Federal funds;

(ii) In the case of a servicemember who is a commissioned officer of the Public Health Service or the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, active service; and

(iii) Any period during which a servicemember is absent from duty on account of sickness, wounds, leave, or other lawful cause.
