
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.203 Loan limits.
####### Additional eligibility for Direct Unsubsidized Loans.

(c)(1)(i) An independent undergraduate student, graduate or professional student, and certain dependent undergraduate students may borrow amounts under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program in addition to any amount borrowed under paragraph (b) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) for certain dependent undergraduate students.

(ii) In order for a dependent undergraduate student to receive this additional loan amount, the financial aid administrator must determine that the student's parent likely will be precluded by exceptional circumstances from borrowing under the Direct PLUS Loan Program and the student's family is otherwise unable to provide the student's expected family contribution. The financial aid administrator must base the determination on a review of the family financial information provided by the student and consideration of the student's debt burden and must document the determination in the school's file.

(iii) "Exceptional circumstances" under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section include but are not limited to circumstances in which the student's parent receives only public assistance or disability benefits, the parent is incarcerated, the parent has an adverse credit history, or the parent's whereabouts are unknown. A parent's refusal to borrow a Direct PLUS Loan does not constitute "exceptional circumstances."

(2) The additional amount that a student described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may borrow under the Direct Unsubsidized Loan Program for any academic year of study may not exceed the following:

(i) In the case of a student who has not successfully completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education-

(A) $6,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.

(B) For a one-year program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, the amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the-

(C) For a program of study that is less than a full academic year in length, an amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the lesser of the-

(ii) In the case of a student who has completed the first year of a program of undergraduate education but has not successfully completed the second year of a program of undergraduate education-

(A) $6,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.

(B) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $6,000 as the-

(iii) In the case of a student who has successfully completed the second year of a program of undergraduate education but has not completed the remainder of the program of study-

(A) $7,000 for a program of study of at least a full academic year in length.

(B) For a program of study with less than a full academic year remaining, an amount that is the same ratio to $7,000 as the-

(iv) In the case of a student who has an associate or baccalaureate degree which is required for admission into a program and who is not a graduate or professional student, the total amount the student may borrow for any academic year of study may not exceed the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.

(v) In the case of a graduate or professional student, $12,000.

(vi) In the case of a student enrolled for no longer than one consecutive 12-month period in a course of study necessary for enrollment in a program leading to a degree or a certificate-

(A) $6,000 for coursework necessary for enrollment in an undergraduate degree or certificate program.

(B) $7,000 for coursework necessary for enrollment in a graduate or professional degree or certification program for a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree.

(vii) In the case of a student who has obtained a baccalaureate degree and is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in coursework necessary for a professional credential or certification from a State that is required for employment as a teacher in an elementary or secondary school in that State, $7,000.

(viii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, an undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is one academic year or less in length may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.

(ix) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section-

(A) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has not successfully completed the first year of that program may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.

(B) An undergraduate student who is enrolled in a program that is more than one academic year in length and who has successfully completed the first year of that program, but has not successfully completed the second year of the program, may not borrow an amount for any academic year of study that exceeds the amounts in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(3) A dependent undergraduate student who qualifies for additional Direct Unsubsidized Loan amounts under this section in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ii) is not eligible to receive the additional Direct Unsubsidized Loan amounts provided under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
