
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### § 685.206 Borrower responsibilities and defenses.
####### Borrower defense to repayment relief.

(12)(i) If the Secretary grants the borrower's request for relief based on a borrower defense to repayment under this paragraph (e), the Secretary notifies the borrower and the school that the borrower is relieved of the obligation to repay all or part of the loan and associated costs and fees that the borrower would otherwise be obligated to pay or will be reimbursed for amounts paid toward the loan voluntarily or through enforced collection. The amount of relief that a borrower receives may exceed the amount of financial harm, as defined in § 685.206(e)(4), that the borrower alleges in the application pursuant to § 685.206(e)(8)(v). The Secretary determines the amount of relief and awards relief limited to the monetary loss that a borrower incurred as a consequence of a misrepresentation, as defined in § 685.206(e)(3). The amount of relief cannot exceed the amount of the loan and any associated costs and fees and will be reduced by the amount of refund, reimbursement, indemnification, restitution, compensatory damages, settlement, debt forgiveness, discharge, cancellation, compromise, or any other financial benefit received by, or on behalf of, the borrower that was related to the borrower defense to repayment. In awarding relief, the Secretary considers the borrower's application, as described in § 685.206(e)(8), which includes information about any payments received by the borrower and the financial harm alleged by the borrower. In awarding relief, the Secretary also considers the school's response, the borrower's reply, and any evidence otherwise in the possession of the Secretary, which was previously provided to the borrower and the school, as described in § 685.206(e)(10). The Secretary also updates reports to consumer reporting agencies to which the Secretary previously made adverse credit reports with regard to the borrower's Direct Loan or loans repaid by the borrower's Direct Consolidation Loan.

(ii) The Secretary affords the borrower such further relief as the Secretary determines is appropriate under the circumstances. Further relief may include one or both of the following, if applicable:

(A) Determining that the borrower is not in default on the loan and is eligible to receive assistance under title IV of the Act and

(B) Eliminating or recalculating the subsidized usage period that is associated with the loan or loans discharged pursuant to § 685.200(f)(4)(iii).
