
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### § 685.208 Repayment plans.
####### Income-contingent repayment plans.

(k)(1) Under the income-contingent repayment plan described in § 685.209(a), the required monthly payment for a borrower who has a partial financial hardship is limited to no more than 10 percent of the amount by which the borrower's AGI exceeds 150 percent of the poverty guideline applicable to the borrower's family size, divided by 12. The Secretary determines annually whether the borrower continues to qualify for this reduced monthly payment based on the amount of the borrower's eligible loans, AGI, and poverty guideline.

(2) Under the income-contingent repayment plan described in § 685.209(b), a borrower's monthly repayment amount is generally based on the total amount of the borrower's Direct Loans, family size, and AGI reported by the borrower for the most recent year for which the Secretary has obtained income information.

(3) Under the income-contingent repayment plan described in § 685.209(c), a borrower's required monthly payment is limited to no more than 10 percent of the amount by which the borrower's AGI exceeds 150 percent of the poverty guideline applicable to the borrower's family size, divided by 12, unless the borrower's monthly payment amount is adjusted in accordance with § 685.209(c)(4)(vi)(E).

(4) For the income-contingent repayment plan described in § 685.209(b), the regulations in effect at the time a borrower enters repayment and selects the income-contingent repayment plan or changes into the income-contingent repayment plan from another plan govern the method for determining the borrower's monthly repayment amount for all of the borrower's Direct Loans, unless-

(i) The Secretary amends the regulations relating to a borrower's monthly repayment amount under the income-contingent repayment plan; and

(ii) The borrower submits a written request that the amended regulations apply to the repayment of the borrower's Direct Loans.

(5) Provisions governing the income-contingent repayment plans are in § 685.209.
