
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### § 685.209 Income-contingent repayment plans.
####### Loan forgiveness.

(6)(i) To qualify for loan forgiveness after 20 years, a borrower must have participated in the Pay As You Earn repayment plan and satisfied at least one of the following conditions during that period:

(A) Made reduced monthly payments under a partial financial hardship as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, including a monthly payment amount of $0.00, as provided under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.

(B) Made reduced monthly payments after the borrower no longer had a partial financial hardship or stopped making income-contingent payments as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.

(C) Made monthly payments under any repayment plan, that were not less than the amount required under the Direct Loan standard repayment plan described in § 685.208(b) with a 10-year repayment period.

(D) Made monthly payments under the Direct Loan standard repayment plan described in § 685.208(b) for the amount of the borrower's loans that were outstanding at the time the borrower first selected the Pay As You Earn repayment plan.

(E) Made monthly payments under the income-contingent repayment plan described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Revised Pay As You Earn repayment plan described in paragraph (c) of this section, or the income-based repayment plan described in § 685.221, including a calculated monthly payment amount of $0.00.

(F) Made monthly payments under the alternative repayment plan described in paragraph (c)(4)(v) of this section prior to changing to a repayment plan described under this section or § 685.221;

(G) Received an economic hardship deferment on eligible Direct Loans.

(ii) As provided under paragraph (a)(6)(v) of this section, the Secretary cancels any outstanding balance of principal and accrued interest on Direct loans for which the borrower qualifies for forgiveness if the Secretary determines that-

(A) The borrower made monthly payments under one or more of the repayment plans described in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, including a monthly payment amount of $0.00, as provided under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section; and
