
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.209 Income-contingent repayment plans.
####### Repayment amount calculation.

(1)(i) The amount the borrower would repay is based upon the borrower's Direct Loan debt when the borrower's first loan enters repayment, and this basis for calculation does not change unless the borrower obtains another Direct Loan or the borrower and the borrower's spouse obtain approval to repay their loans jointly under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. If the borrower obtains another Direct Loan, the amount the borrower would repay is based on the combined amounts of the loans when the last loan enters repayment. If the borrower and the borrower's spouse repay the loans jointly, the amount the borrowers would repay is based on both borrowers' Direct Loan debts at the time they enter joint repayment.

(ii) The annual amount payable by a borrower under the ICR plan is the lesser of-

(A) The amount the borrower would repay annually over 12 years using standard amortization multiplied by an income percentage factor that corresponds to the borrower's AGI as shown in the income percentage factor table in a notice published annually by the Secretary in the; or

(B) 20 percent of discretionary income.

(iii)(A) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, discretionary income is defined as a borrower's AGI minus the amount of the poverty guideline, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, for the borrower's family size as defined in ยง 685.209(a)(1)(iv).

(B) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the term "poverty guideline" refers to the income categorized by State and family size in the poverty guidelines published annually by the United States Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902(2). If a borrower is not a resident of a State identified in the poverty guidelines, the poverty line to be used for the borrower is the poverty guideline (for the relevant family size) used for the 48 contiguous States.

(iv) For exact incomes not shown in the income percentage factor table in the annual notice published by the Secretary, an income percentage factor is calculated, based upon the intervals between the incomes and income percentage factors shown on the table.

(v) Each year, the Secretary recalculates the borrower's annual payment amount based on changes in the borrower's AGI, the variable interest rate, the income percentage factors in the table in the annual notice published by the Secretary, and updated HHS Poverty Guidelines (if applicable).

(vi) If a borrower's monthly payment is calculated to be greater than $0 but less than or equal to $5.00, the amount payable by the borrower is $5.00.

(vii) For purposes of the annual recalculation described in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, after periods in which a borrower makes payments that are less than interest accrued on the loan, the payment amount is recalculated based upon unpaid accrued interest and the highest outstanding principal loan amount (including amount capitalized) calculated for that borrower while paying under the ICR plan.

(viii) For each calendar year, the Secretary publishes in thea revised income percentage factor table reflecting changes based on inflation. This revised table is developed by changing each of the dollar amounts contained in the table by a percentage equal to the estimated percentage changes in the Consumer Price Index (as determined by the Secretary) between December 1995 and the December next preceding the beginning of such calendar year.

(ix) Examples of the calculation of monthly repayment amounts and tables that show monthly repayment amounts for borrowers at various income and debt levels are included in the annual notice published by the Secretary.

(x) At the beginning of the repayment period under the ICR plan, the borrower must make monthly payments of the amount of interest that accrues on the borrower's Direct Loan until the Secretary calculates the borrower's monthly payment amount on the basis of the borrower's income.
