
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.211 Miscellaneous repayment provisions.
####### e.g.,

(iv) Within 15 business days of the Secretary's determination of the borrower's loan rehabilitation payment amount, the Secretary provides the borrower with a written rehabilitation agreement which includes the borrower's reasonable and affordable payment amount, a prominent statement that the borrower may object orally or in writing to the reasonable and affordable payment amount with the method and timeframe for raising such an objection, a statement that the rehabilitation is null and void if the borrower does not provide the documentation required to calculate the reasonable and affordable payment amount, and an explanation of any other terms and conditions applicable to the required series of payments that must be made. To accept the agreement, the borrower must sign and return the agreement or accept the agreement electronically under a process provided by the Secretary. The Secretary does not impose any other conditions unrelated to the amount or timing of the rehabilitation payments in the rehabilitation agreement. The written rehabilitation agreement informs the borrower of the effects of having the loans rehabilitated (removal of the record of default from the borrower's credit history and return to normal repayment).

(2) The Secretary provides the borrower with a written statement confirming the borrower's reasonable and affordable payment amount, as determined by the Secretary, and explaining any other terms and conditions applicable to the required series of payments that must be made before the borrower's account can be rehabilitated. The statement informs the borrower that the borrower may object to the terms and conditions of the rehabilitation agreement, and explains the method and timeframe for objecting to the terms and conditions of the rehabilitation agreement.

(3) If the borrower objects to the monthly payment amount determined under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the Secretary recalculates the payment based solely on information provided on a form approved by the Secretary and, if requested, supporting documentation from the borrower and other sources, and considers-

(i) The borrower's, and if applicable, the spouse's current disposable income, including public assistance payments, and other income received by the borrower and the spouse, such as welfare benefits, Social Security benefits, Supplemental Security Income, and workers' compensation. Spousal income is not considered if the spouse does not contribute to the borrower's household income;

(ii) Family size as defined in ยง 685.221(a)(3); and

(iii) Reasonable and necessary expenses, which include-

(A) Food;

(B) Housing;

(C) Utilities;

(D) Basic communication expenses;

(E) Necessary medical and dental costs;

(F) Necessary insurance costs;

(G) Transportation costs;

(H) Dependent care and other work-related expenses;

(I) Legally required child and spousal support;

(J) Other title IV and non-title IV student loan payments; and

(K) Other expenses approved by the Secretary.

(4) The Secretary provides the borrower with a new written rehabilitation agreement confirming the borrower's recalculated reasonable and affordable payment amount. To accept the agreement, the borrower must sign and return the agreement or accept the agreement electronically under a process provided by the Secretary.

(5) The Secretary includes any payment made under paragraph (1) of the definition of "satisfactory repayment arrangement" in ยง 685.102(b) in determining whether the 9 out of 10 payments required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section have been made.

(6) A borrower may request that the monthly payment amount be adjusted due to a change in the borrower's total financial circumstances only upon providing the documentation specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(7) During the rehabilitation period, the Secretary limits contact with the borrower on the loan being rehabilitated to collection activities that are required by law or regulation and to communications that support the rehabilitation.

(8) If a defaulted loan is rehabilitated, the Secretary instructs any consumer reporting agency to which the default was reported to remove the default from the borrower's credit history.

(9) A defaulted Direct Loan on which a judgment has been obtained may not be rehabilitated.

(10) A Direct Loan obtained by fraud for which the borrower has been convicted of, or has pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving fraud in obtaining title IV, HEA program assistance may not be rehabilitated.

(11)(i) If a borrower's loan is being collected by administrative wage garnishment while the borrower is also making monthly payments on the same loan under a loan rehabilitation agreement, the Secretary continues collecting the loan by administrative wage garnishment until the borrower makes five qualifying monthly payments under the rehabilitation agreement, unless the Secretary is otherwise precluded from doing so.

(ii) After the borrower makes the fifth qualifying monthly payment, the Secretary, unless otherwise directed by the borrower, suspends the garnishment order issued to the borrower's employer.

(iii) A borrower may only obtain the benefit of a suspension of administrative wage garnishment while also attempting to rehabilitate a defaulted loan once.

(12) Effective for any defaulted Direct Loan that is rehabilitated on or after August 14, 2008, the borrower cannot rehabilitate the loan again if the loan returns to default status following the rehabilitation.
