
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.215 Discharge for false certification of student eligibility or unauthorized payment.
####### Discharge procedures.

(f)This paragraph (f) applies to loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2020.

(1) If the Secretary determines that a borrower's Direct Loan may be eligible for a discharge under this section, the Secretary provides the borrower the application described in paragraph (e) of this section, which explains the qualifications and procedures for obtaining a discharge. The Secretary also promptly suspends any efforts to collect from the borrower on any affected loan. The Secretary may continue to receive borrower payments.

(2) If the borrower fails to submit a completed application within 60 days of the date the Secretary suspended collection efforts, the Secretary resumes collection and grants forbearance of principal and interest for the period in which collection activity was suspended. The Secretary may capitalize any interest accrued and not paid during that period.

(3) If the borrower submits a completed application, the Secretary determines whether to grant a request for discharge under this section by reviewing the application in light of information available from the Secretary's records and from other sources, including, but not limited to, the school, guaranty agencies, State authorities, and relevant accrediting associations.

(4) If the Secretary determines that the borrower meets the applicable requirements for a discharge under paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary notifies the borrower in writing of that determination.

(5) If the Secretary determines that the borrower does not qualify for a discharge, the Secretary notifies the borrower in writing of that determination and the reasons for the determination, and resumes collection.
