
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.217 Teacher loan forgiveness program.
####### General.

(a)(1) The teacher loan forgiveness program is intended to encourage individuals to enter and continue in the teaching profession. For new borrowers, the Secretary repays the amount specified in this paragraph (a) on the borrower's Direct Subsidized Loans, Direct Unsubsidized Loans, Subsidized and Unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loans, and in certain cases, Direct Consolidation Loans or Federal Consolidation Loans. The forgiveness program is only available to a borrower who has no outstanding loan balance under the Direct Loan Program or the FFEL Program on October 1, 1998, or who has no outstanding loan balance on the date he or she obtains a loan after October 1, 1998.

(2)(i) The borrower must have been employed at an eligible elementary or secondary school that serves low-income families or by an educational service agency that serves low-income families as a full-time teacher for five consecutive complete academic years. The required five years of teaching may include any combination of qualifying teaching service at an eligible elementary or secondary school or for an eligible educational service agency.

(ii) Teaching for an eligible elementary or secondary school may be counted toward the required five consecutive complete academic years only if for least one year of teaching was after the 1997-1998 academic year.

(iii) Teaching at an eligible educational service agency may be counted toward the required five consecutive complete academic years only if the consecutive five-year period includes qualifying service at an eligible educational service agency performed after the 2007-2008 academic year.

(3) All borrowers eligible for teacher loan forgiveness may receive loan forgiveness of up to a combined total of $5,000 on the borrower's eligible Direct Loan and FFEL Program loans.

(4) A borrower may receive loan forgiveness of up to a combined total of $17,500 on the borrower's eligible Direct Loan and FFEL Program loans if the borrower was employed for five consecutive years-

(i) At an eligible secondary school as a highly qualified mathematics or science teacher, or by an eligible educational service agency as a highly qualified teacher of mathematics or science to secondary school students; or

(ii) At an eligible elementary or secondary school or by an eligible educational service agency as a highly qualified special education teacher.

(5) The loan for which the borrower is seeking forgiveness must have been made prior to the end of the borrower's fifth year of qualifying teaching service.
