
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.218 Discharge of student loan indebtedness for survivors of victims of the September 11, 2001, attacks.
####### Applying for discharge.

(c)(1) In accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section, the Secretary discharges-

(i) A Direct Loan owed by the spouse of an eligible public servant;

(ii) A Direct PLUS Loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim;

(iii) The portion of a Direct Consolidation Loan that repaid a PLUS loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim; and

(iv) The portion of a joint Direct Consolidation Loan incurred on behalf of an eligible victim.

(2) After being notified by the borrower that the borrower claims to qualify for a discharge under this section, the Secretary suspends collection activity on the borrower's eligible Direct Loans and requests that the borrower submit a request for discharge on a form approved by the Secretary.

(3) If the Secretary determines that the borrower does not qualify for a discharge under this section, or the Secretary does not receive the completed discharge request form from the borrower within 60 days of the borrower notifying the Secretary that the borrower claims to qualify for a discharge, the Secretary resumes collection and grants forbearance of payment of both principal and interest for the period in which collection activity was suspended. The Secretary notifies the borrower that the application for the discharge has been denied, provides the basis for the denial, and informs the borrower that the Secretary will resume collection on the loan. The Secretary may capitalize any interest accrued and not paid during this period.

(4) If the Secretary determines that the borrower qualifies for a discharge under this section, the Secretary notifies the borrower that the loan has been discharged or, in the case of a partial discharge of a Direct Consolidation Loan, partially discharged. Except in the case of a partial discharge of a Direct Consolidation Loan, the Secretary returns to the sender any payments received by the Secretary after the date the loan was discharged.

(5) The Secretary discharges a Direct Loan owed by an eligible victim or an eligible public servant under the procedures in ยง 685.212 for a discharge based on death or under the procedures in ยง 685.213 for a discharge based on a total and permanent disability.
