
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart B-Borrower Provisions
###### ยง 685.220 Consolidation.
####### Origination of a consolidation loan.

(f)(1)(i) The holder of a loan that a borrower wishes to consolidate into a Direct Loan must complete and return the Secretary's request for certification of the amount owed within 10 business days of receipt or, if it is unable to provide the certification, provide to the Secretary a written explanation of the reasons for its inability to provide the certification.

(ii) If the Secretary approves an application for a consolidation loan, the Secretary pays to each holder of a loan selected for consolidation the amount necessary to discharge the loan.

(iii) For a Direct Loan Program or FFEL Program loan that is in default, the Secretary limits collection costs that may be charged to the borrower to a maximum of 18.5 percent of the outstanding principal and interest amount of the defaulted loan. For any other defaulted Federal education loan, all collection costs that are owed may be charged to the borrower.

(2) Upon receipt of the proceeds of a Direct Consolidation Loan, the holder of a consolidated loan must promptly apply the proceeds to fully discharge the borrower's obligation on the consolidated loan. The holder of a consolidated loan must notify the borrower that the loan has been paid in full.

(3) The principal balance of a Direct Consolidation Loan is equal to the sum of the amounts paid to the holders of the consolidated loans.

(4) If the amount paid by the Secretary to the holder of a consolidated loan exceeds the amount needed to discharge that loan, the holder of the consolidated loan must promptly refund the excess amount to the Secretary to be credited against the outstanding balance of the Direct Consolidation Loan.

(5) If the amount paid by the Secretary to the holder of the consolidated loan is insufficient to discharge that loan, the holder must notify the Secretary in writing of the remaining amount due on the loan. The Secretary promptly pays the remaining amount due.
