
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 685-WILLIAM D. FORD FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM
##### Subpart C-Requirements, Standards, and Payments for Direct Loan Program Schools
###### ยง 685.303 Processing loan proceeds.
####### Determining disbursement dates and amounts.

(d)(1) Before disbursing a loan, a school must determine that all information required by the promissory note has been provided by the borrower and, if applicable, the student.

(2) An institution must disburse the loan proceeds on a payment period basis in accordance with 34 CFR 668.164(b).

(3) Unless paragraph (d)(4) or (d)(6) of this section applies-

(i) If a loan period is more than one payment period, the school must disburse loan proceeds at least once in each payment period; and

(ii) If a loan period is one payment period, the school must make at least two disbursements during that payment period.

(A) For a loan originated under ยง 685.301(a)(10)(i)(A), the school may not make the second disbursement until the calendar midpoint between the first and last scheduled days of class of the loan period.

(B) For a loan originated under ยง 685.301(a)(10)(i)(B), the school may not make the second disbursement until the student successfully completes half of the number of credit hours or clock hours and half of the number of weeks of instructional time in the payment period.

(4)(i) If one or more payment periods have elapsed before a school makes a disbursement, the school may include in the disbursement loan proceeds for completed payment periods.

(ii) If the loan period is equal to one payment period and more than one-half of it has elapsed, the school may include in the disbursement loan proceeds for the entire payment period.

(5) The school must disburse loan proceeds in substantially equal installments, and no installment may exceed one-half of the loan.

(6)(i) A school is not required to make more than one disbursement if-
