
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 686-TEACHER EDUCATION ASSISTANCE FOR COLLEGE AND HIGHER EDUCATION (TEACH) GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart C-Determination of Awards
###### ยง 686.21 Calculation of a grant.

(a)(1)(i) The Scheduled Award for a TEACH Grant for an eligible student is $4,000.

(ii) Each Scheduled Award remains available to an eligible student until the $4,000 is disbursed.

(2)(i) The total amount that a student may receive in TEACH Grants for undergraduate and post-baccalaureate study may not exceed $16,000.

(ii) The total amount that a student may receive in TEACH Grants for graduate study may not exceed $8,000.

(b) The annual award for-

(1) A full-time student is $4,000;

(2) A three-quarter-time student is $3,000;

(3) A half-time student is $2,000; and

(4) A less-than-half-time student is $1,000.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the amount of a student's grant under this part, in combination with the other student financial assistance available to the student, including the amount of a Federal Pell Grant for which the student is eligible, may not exceed the student's cost of attendance at the TEACH Grant-eligible institution. Other student financial assistance is estimated financial assistance, as defined in 34 CFR 673.5(c).

(d) A TEACH Grant may replace a student's EFC, but the amount of the grant that exceeds the student's EFC is considered estimated financial assistance, as defined in 34 CFR 673.5(c).

(e) In determining a student's payment for a payment period, an institution must include-

(1) In accordance with 34 CFR 668.20, any noncredit or reduced credit courses that an institution determines are necessary-

(i) To help a student be prepared for the pursuit of a first undergraduate baccalaureate or post-baccalaureate degree or certificate; or

(ii) In the case of English language instruction, to enable the student to utilize already existing knowledge, training, or skills; and

(2) In accordance with 34 CFR 668.5, a student's participation in a program of study abroad if it is approved for credit by the home institution at which the student is enrolled.
