
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 686-TEACHER EDUCATION ASSISTANCE FOR COLLEGE AND HIGHER EDUCATION (TEACH) GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart E-Service and Repayment Obligations
###### ยง 686.42 Discharge of agreement to serve or repay.
####### Military discharge.

(c)(1) A grant recipient who has completed or who has otherwise ceased enrollment in a TEACH Grant-eligible program for which he or she received TEACH Grant funds and has exceeded the period of time allowed under ยง 686.41(a)(2)(ii), may qualify for a proportional discharge of his or her service obligation due to an extended call or order to active duty status. To apply for a military discharge, a grant recipient or his or her representative must submit a written request to the Secretary.

(2) A grant recipient described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may receive a-

(i) One-year discharge of his or her service obligation if a call or order to active duty status is for more than three years;

(ii) Two-year discharge of his or her service obligation if a call or order to active duty status is for more than four years;

(iii) Three-year discharge of his or her service obligation if a call or order to active duty status is for more than five years; or

(iv) Full discharge of his or her service obligation if a call or order to active duty status is for more than six years.

(3) A grant recipient or his or her representative must provide the Secretary with-

(i) A written statement from the grant recipient's commanding or personnel officer certifying-

(A) That the grant recipient is on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States;

(B) The date on which the grant recipient's service began; and

(C) The date on which the grant recipient's service is expected to end; or

(ii)(A) A copy of the grant recipient's official military orders; and

(B) A copy of the grant recipient's military identification.

(4) For the purpose of this section, the Armed Forces means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, a reserve component of the Armed Forces named in 10 U.S.C. 10101, or the National Guard.

(5) Based on a request for a military discharge from the grant recipient or his or her representative, the Secretary will notify the grant recipient or his or her representative of the outcome of the discharge request. For the portion on the service obligation that remains, the grant recipient remains responsible for fulfilling his or her service obligation in accordance with ยง 686.12.
