
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 690-FEDERAL PELL GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart F-Determination of Federal Pell Grant Awards
###### ยง 690.65 Transfer student: attendance at more than one institution during an award year.

(a) If a student who receives a Federal Pell Grant at one institution subsequently enrolls at a second institution in the same award year, the student may receive a Federal Pell Grant at the second institution only if-

(1) The student submits a valid SAR to the second institution; or

(2) The second institution obtains a valid ISIR.

(b) The second institution shall calculate the student's award according to ยง 690.63.

(c) The second institution may pay a Federal Pell Grant only for that portion of the academic year in which a student is enrolled at that institution. The grant amount must be adjusted, if necessary, to ensure that the grant does not exceed one and one-half of the student's Scheduled Federal Pell Grant for that award year.

(d) If a student's Scheduled Federal Pell Grant at the second institution differs from the Scheduled Federal Pell Grant at the first institution, the grant amount at the second institution is calculated as follows-

(1) The amount received at the first institution is compared to the Scheduled Federal Pell Grant at the first institution to determine the percentage of the Scheduled Federal Pell Grant that the student has received.

(2) That percentage is subtracted from 100 percent or 150 percent, if the student is eligible to receive additional Federal Pell Grant funds in an amount up to one-half of a Scheduled Award during a single award year.

(3) The remaining percentage is the percentage of the Scheduled Federal Pell Grant at the second institution to which the student is entitled.

(e) The student's Federal Pell Grant for each payment period is calculated according to the procedures in ยง 690.63 unless the remaining percentage of the Scheduled Federal Pell Grant at the second institution, referred to in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, is less than the amount the student would normally receive for that payment period. In that case, the student's Federal Pell Grant is equal to that remaining percentage.

(f) A transfer student shall repay any amount received in an award year that exceeds his or her Scheduled Federal Pell Grant, or one and one-half of his or her Scheduled Federal Pell Grant, whichever is applicable.
