
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle B - Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
### Chapter VI - Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education
#### PART 690-FEDERAL PELL GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart G-Administration of Grant Payments
###### ยง 690.79 Liability for and recovery of Federal Pell Grant overpayments.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, a student is liable for any Federal Pell Grant overpayment made to him or her.

(2) The institution is liable for a Federal Pell Grant overpayment if the overpayment occurred because the institution failed to follow the procedures set forth in this part or 34 CFR Part 668. The institution must restore an amount equal to the overpayment to its Federal Pell Grant account.

(3) A student is not liable for, and the institution is not required to attempt recovery of or refer to the Secretary, a Federal Pell Grant overpayment if the amount of the overpayment is less than $25 and is not a remaining balance.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if an institution makes a Federal Pell Grant overpayment for which it is not liable, it must promptly send a written notice to the student requesting repayment of the overpayment amount. The notice must state that failure to make that repayment, or to make arrangements satisfactory to the holder of the overpayment debt to repay the overpayment, makes the student ineligible for further title IV, HEA program funds until final resolution of the Federal Pell Grant overpayment.

(2) If a student objects to the institution's Federal Pell Grant overpayment determination on the grounds that it is erroneous, the institution must consider any information provided by the student and determine whether the objection is warranted.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if the student fails to repay a Federal Pell Grant overpayment or make arrangements satisfactory to the holder of the overpayment debt to repay the Federal Pell Grant overpayment, after the institution has taken the action required by paragraph (b) of this section, the institution must refer the overpayment to the Secretary for collection purposes in accordance with procedures required by the Secretary. After referring the Federal Pell Grant overpayment to the Secretary under this section, the institution need make no further efforts to recover the overpayment.
