
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 81 - GENERAL EDUCATION PROVISIONS ACT - ENFORCEMENT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 81.7 Non-party participation.

(a) A person or organization, other than a party, that wishes to participate in a case shall file an application to participate with the ALJ assigned to the case. The application must-

(1) Identify the case in which participation is sought;

(2) State how the applicant's interest relates to the case;

(3) State how the applicant's participation would aid in the disposition of the case; and

(4) State how the applicant seeks to participate.

(b) The ALJ may permit an applicant to participate if the ALJ determines that the applicant's participation-

(1) Will aid in the disposition of the case;

(2) Will not unduly delay the proceedings; and

(3) Will not prejudice the adjudication of the parties' rights.

(c) If the ALJ permits an applicant to participate, the ALJ permits the applicant to file briefs.

(d)(1) In addition to the participation described in paragraph (c) of this section, the ALJ may permit the applicant to participate in any or all of the following ways:

(i) Submit documentary evidence.

(ii) Participate in an evidentiary hearing afforded the parties.

(iii) Participate in an oral argument afforded the parties.

(2) The ALJ may place appropriate limits on an applicant's participation to ensure the efficient conduct of the proceedings.

(e) A non-party participant shall comply with the requirements for parties in ยง 81.11 and ยง 81.12.
