
# Title 34 - Education
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary, Department of Education
### PART 81 - GENERAL EDUCATION PROVISIONS ACT - ENFORCEMENT
#### Subpart B - Hearings for Recovery of Funds
##### ยง 81.34 Notice of a disallowance decision.

(a) If an authorized Departmental official decides that a recipient must return funds under ยง 81.30, the official gives the recipient written notice of a disallowance decision. The official sends the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that ensure proof of receipt.

(b)(1) The notice must establish a prima facie case for the recovery of funds, including an analysis reflecting the value of the program services actually obtained in a determination of harm to the Federal interest.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a prima facie case is a statement of the law and the facts that, unless rebutted, is sufficient to sustain the conclusion drawn in the notice. The facts may be set out in the notice or in a document that is identified in the notice and available to the recipient.

(3) A statement that the recipient failed to maintain records required by law or failed to allow an authorized representative of the Secretary access to those records constitutes a prima facie case for the recovery of the funds affected.

(i) If the recipient failed to maintain records, the statement must briefly describe the types of records that were not maintained and identify the recordkeeping requirement that was violated.

(ii) If the recipient failed to allow access to records, the statement must briefly describe the recipient's actions that constituted the failure and identify the access requirement that was violated.

(c) The notice must inform the recipient that it may-

(1) Obtain a review of the disallowance decision by the OALJ; and

(2) Request mediation under ยง 81.13.

(d) The notice must describe-

(1) The time available to apply for a review of the disallowance decision; and

(2) The procedure for filing an application for review.
