
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1218 - COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES, RENTALS, BONUSES, AND OTHER MONIES DUE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart D - Oil, Gas and Sulfur, Offshore
###### ยง 1218.155 Method of payment.
####### Payment of the four-fifths bonus bid amount and the first year's rental.

(c)Payment shall be made to ONRR by EFT unless otherwise directed by the Secretary. The payment by EFT via the FRCS must be received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York no later than noon, eastern standard time, on the 11th business day after receipt of the lease forms by the successful bidder. A "business day" is considered to be a day on which the OCS regional office issuing the lease is open for business. The lease will not be executed by the appropriate ONRR official until payment is received. Failure to remit by EFT or as directed by the Secretary within the time specified above will result in forfeiture of the one-fifth bonus bid amount and the lease will not be executed by the appropriate ONRR official. Payors will not be held responsible for late payment due to actions beyond their control, such as mechanical or systems failure of FRCS or FDS. Payors will be held responsible for incorrect actions of their bank which result in late payments. A 2-day grace period will be allowed to make up a deficient payment, but a late payment charge will be assessed for this late payment and a penalty will also be assessed if appropriate. Late payment charges will be assessed in accordance with subpart B of this part.
