
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1218 - COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES, RENTALS, BONUSES, AND OTHER MONIES DUE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart D - Oil, Gas and Sulfur, Offshore
###### ยง 1218.155 Method of payment.
####### Payment of the one-fifth bonus bid amount.

(b)(1) Each lease bid must include a payment for the one-fifth bonus bid deposit amount unless the bidder is otherwise directed by the Secretary. Further instructions on how to make payment with the bid will be included in the notice of each lease offering. EFT may be used as a method of payment for the one-fifth bonus bid amount.

(2) Beginning with lease offerings held after February 1, 1984, the one-fifth bonus amount received from a high bidder shall be deposited into an escrow account created pursuant to an agreement between the Departments of the Interior and Treasury, pending acceptance or rejection of the bid. The one-fifth bonus funds will be invested in public debt securities. Investment of this amount by the U.S. Government does not indicate acceptance of the bid. The one-fifth bonus amounts submitted with bids other than the highest valid bid will be returned to respective bidders after bids are opened, recorded, and ranked. Return of such amounts will not affect the status, validity, or ranking of bids. The one-fifth bonus bid amount received from any high bidder and held by the Government pending acceptance or rejection, will be returned with actual interest earned, if the bid is subsequently rejected. The interest accrued during the period held in the account pending acceptance or rejection of the bid will accrue to the Government when the bid is accepted.
