
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1218 - COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES, RENTALS, BONUSES, AND OTHER MONIES DUE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart J - Debt Collection and Administrative Offset
###### ยง 1218.703 What notice will ONRR give you of our intent to refer a matter to Treasury to collect a debt?

(a) When the Director determines that you owe, or may owe, a legally enforceable debt to ONRR, the Director will send a written notice to you informing you that ONRR intends to refer the debt to Treasury. We will send the notice by facsimile or mail to the most current address known to us. The notice will inform you of the following:

(1) The amount, nature, and basis of the debt.

(2) The methods of offset that ONRR or Treasury may use.

(3) Your opportunity to inspect and copy agency records related to the debt.

(4) Your opportunity to enter into a written agreement with us to repay the debt.

(5) Our policy concerning interest and administrative costs under ยง 1218.704, including a statement that we will make such assessments against you unless we determine otherwise under the criteria of the FCCS and this part.

(6) The date by which you must remit payment to avoid additional late charges and enforced collection.

(7) The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person (or office) at ONRR who is available to discuss your debt.

(b)(1) You may not appeal the notice issued under this section unless the notice specifically provides you with the opportunity for review under 30 CFR parts 1290 or 1241 because you did not previously receive a notice of the order, decision on appeal, or any other notice or decision that is the basis of the debt that ONRR intends to refer to Treasury, and for which you may be liable in whole or in part under applicable law. You may not dispute matters related to your delinquent debt that were the subject of a final order or appeal decision of which you were the recipient, or to which you were a party that is the basis of your delinquent debt.

(2) This section applies whether or not you appealed the order, demand, notice of noncompliance, or assessment of civil penalties under 30 CFR parts 1290 or 1241.
