
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 47 - HAZARD COMMUNICATION (HazCom)
##### Subpart I - Trade Secret Hazardous Chemical
###### ยง 47.84 Non-emergency disclosure.

Upon request, the operator must disclose the identity of a trade secret chemical in a non-emergency situation to an exposed miner, the miner's designated representative, or a health professional providing services to the miner, if the following conditions are met.

(a) The request is in writing.

(b) The request describes in reasonable detail an occupational health need for the information, as follows:

(1) To assess the chemical hazards to which the miner will be exposed.

(2) To conduct or assess health sampling to determine the miner's exposure levels.

(3) To conduct reassignment or periodic medical surveillance of the exposed miner.

(4) To provide medical treatment to the exposed miner.

(5) To select or assess appropriate personal protective equipment for the exposed miner.

(6) To design or assess engineering controls or other protective measures for the exposed miner.

(7) To conduct studies to determine the health effects of exposure.

(c) The request explains in detail why the disclosure of the following information would not satisfy the purpose described in paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) The properties and effects of the chemical.

(2) Measures for controlling the miner's exposure to the chemical.

(3) Methods of monitoring and analyzing the miner's exposure to the chemical.

(4) Methods of diagnosing and treating harmful exposures to the chemical.

(d) The request describes the procedures to be used to maintain the confidentiality of the disclosed information.

(e) The person making the request enters a written confidentiality agreement that he or she will not use the information for any purpose other than the health needs asserted and agrees not to release the information under any circumstances, except as authorized by ยง 47.85, by the terms of the agreement, or by the operator.
