
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1220 - ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING NET PROFIT SHARE PAYMENT FOR OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASES
##### ยง 1220.011 Schedule of allowable direct and allocable joint costs and credits.
###### Labor.

(b)(1)(i) Salaries and wages of lessee's field employees, first level supervisors and technical employees employed in the NPSL project area in NPSL operations are allowable if such costs are not charged under paragraph (g) of this section.

(ii) Salaries and wages of technical employees within technical branches of the lessee's organization who are either temporarily or permanently assigned to, and directly employed in NPSL operations are allowable provided that such employees work "full time" on some particular aspect of NPSL operations or some specific technical problem. Excluded from this category are employees assigned a role in NPSL operations as a duty collateral with other duties that do not directly benefit NPSL operations.

(iii) Salaries and wages of technical employees within technical branches of the lessee's organization who are assigned technical tasks directly related to NPSL operations may be allowable. Costs may be charged to the NPSL if supported by adequate time records showing the nature of the task and the hours spent on that task.

(2) Lessee's cost of allowed employee absence paid to employees whose salaries and wages are chargeable to NPSL operations under paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section are allowable.

(3) Expenditures or contributions made pursuant to assessments imposed by governmental authority that are applicable to lessee's costs chargeable to NPSL operations under paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) and (b)(2) of this section are allowable.

(4) Reasonable personal expenses, including allowable relocation costs of employees whose salaries and wages are chargeable to NPSL operations under paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section and that are paid by the lessee or for which the employees are reimbursed under the lessee's normal practice are allowable except as limited by ยง 1220.013(g).

(i) Allowable relocation costs include:

(A) Travel expenses, including transportation, lodging, subsistence, and reasonable incidental expenses of the employee and members of his immediate family and transportation of his household and personal effects to the new location.

(B) Other necessary and reasonable expenses normally incident to relocation, such as costs of cancelling an unexpired lease, disconnecting and reinstalling household appliances, and purchases of insurance against damages to or loss of personal property are allowable. Costs of cancelling an unexpired lease shall not exceed three times the monthly rental.
