
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1220 - ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING NET PROFIT SHARE PAYMENT FOR OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASES
##### ยง 1220.011 Schedule of allowable direct and allocable joint costs and credits.
###### i.e.

(C) Closing costs (, brokerage fees, legal fees, appraisal fees, etc.) for the sale of the employee's actual residence when notified of the transfer are allowable; and

(D) Continuing costs of ownership of the vacant former actual residence being sold, such as continuing mortgage principal and interest payments, maintenance of building and grounds (exclusive of fixing-up expenses), utilities, taxes, property insurance, etc., after settlement date of lease or date of new permanent residence are allowable.

(ii) The combined total of costs listed in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) (C) through (D) of this section shall not exceed 8 percent of the sales price of the property sold.

(iii) Section 1220.013(g) specifies employee relocation expenses that are not allowable as a charge to NPSL operations.

(5) Lessee's current costs of established plans for employee's group life insurance, hospitalization, pension, retirement, stock purchase, thrift, bonds, and other benefit plans of a like nature that are made available to all of lessee's employees on an equitable basis, applicable to lessee's labor cost chargeable to NPSL operations under paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) and (b)(2) of this section, are allowable. The amount of these charges shall be lessee's actual cost not to exceed 23 percent of the total charges under paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) and (b)(2) except that the Director may from time to time establish a different maximum percentage.

(6) Charges for expenses incurred under paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(5) of this section may be made to NPSL accounts on a "when and as paid" basis or by a percentage assessment method. If the percentage assessment method is used, it shall be based upon the lessee's actual cost experience expressed as a percentage of costs chargeable under paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) and (b)(2) of this section. Under either method the lessee's own cost of administering the plans and paying the salaries and benefits defined in this paragraph shall be excluded. In determining actual cost experience of an employee benefit plan, any dividend or refunds received that are applicable to insurance or annuity policies shall be used to reduce the cost of such policies.
