
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1220 - ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING NET PROFIT SHARE PAYMENT FOR OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASES
##### ยง 1220.031 Reporting and payment requirements.

(a) Each lessee subject to this part shall file an annual report during the period from issuance of the NPSL until the first month in which production revenues are credited to the NPSL capital account. Such report shall list the costs incurred, including allowances applied, credits received, and the balance of the NPSL capital account. Not later than 60 days after the end of the first month in which production revenues are credited to the NPSL capital account, a final report relating to the period shall be filed.

(b) Beginning with the first month in which production revenues are credited to the NPSL capital account, each lessee subject to this part 1220 shall file a report for each NPSL, not later than 60 days following the end of each month, containing the following information for the month for which the report is filed:

(1) The volume and disposition of all oil and gas production saved, removed or sold;

(2) The production revenue;

(3) The amount and description of all costs and credits to the NPSL capital account;

(4) The balance of the NPSL capital account; and

(5) The net profit share base and net profit share payment due the United States and the monthly profit share of the lessee.

(c) Each lessee subject to this part 1220 shall submit, together with the report required by paragraph (b) of this section, any net profit share payment due the United States for the period covered by the report.

(d) Each lessee subject to this part 1220 shall file a report not later than 90 days after each inventory is taken, reporting the controllable materiel on hand, acquired, transferred or used.

(e) Each lessee subject to this part 1220 shall file a final report, not later than 60 days following the cessation of production, together with the appropriate net profit share payment, indicating the remaining balance and costs and credits to the NPSL capital account for the period.

(f) Reports required by this section shall be filed with the ONRR Director, either separately or as part of the reports that are currently filed.

(g) Interest shall be calculated at the prevailing rate or rates as published in the Bulletin to the Department of the Treasury Fiscal Requirement Manual, in effect for the period or periods over which the net profit share payment is owed, compounded monthly, on the amount of a net profit share payment, from the due date (60 days following the end of each month for which the payment was due) of a net profit share payment until such payment is received by the United States.
