
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1220 - ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING NET PROFIT SHARE PAYMENT FOR OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASES
##### § 1220.021 Determination of net profit share base.

(a) During each month of the lease term, the NPSL capital account shall be:

(1) Debited with allowable direct and allocable joint costs;

(2) Credited with an amount reflecting the production revenues for the month, calculated in accordance with § 1260.110(b) of this title.

(3) Credited with amounts properly credited back to the NPSL capital account as specified in § 1220.011(p). Credits associated with charges to the NPSL capital account during the capital recovery period, however, shall first be increased by the value of the credit multiplied by the recovery factor, before crediting that sum to the NPSL capital account.

(b) At the end of each month of the lease term during the capital recovery period:

(1) The transactions specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made to the NPSL capital account.

(2) The capital recovery period overhead allowance shall be calculated in accordance with § 1220.012(a) and debited to the NPSL capital account.

(3) The allowance for capital recovery shall be calculated in accordance with § 1220.020 and the allowance debited (or the negative allowance debited, as appropriate) to the NPSL capital account. (A debit entry of a negative allowance for capital recovery shall have the same effect as a credit entry of the absolute value of the allowance for capital recovery.)

(4) The balance in the NPSL capital account shall be calculated. If, as a result of the accounting transactions described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section, there is a credit balance in the NPSL capital account, the capital recovery period will be considered terminated as of this month. The credit balance will be forwarded to the next month, which will be the first month for which a profit share payment is due.

(c) At the end of each month of the lease term following the end of the capital recovery period:

(1) The transaction specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made to the NPSL capital account.

(2) An overhead allowance shall be calculated in accordance with § 1220.012(b) and debited to the NPSL capital account.

(3) The balance in the NPSL capital account shall be calculated.

(d) If, as a result of the accounting transactions described in paragraph (c) of this section, there is a credit balance in the NPSL capital account, this credit balance is the net profit share base for that month. The opening debit and credit balances in the NPSL capital account for any month following a month in which there is a credit balance in the NPSL capital account (except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)) of this section shall be zero.

(e) If, as a result of the accounting transactions described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, there is a debit balance in the NPSL capital account, this debit balance shall be the opening debit balance in the NPSL capital account for the following month.

(f) Any credit balance in the NPSL capital account shall become the net profit share base as described in this section. Any debit balance in the NPSL capital account shall be maintained only insofar as necessary for the determination of profit share payments. Such debit balance shall not represent a claim against the United States.
