
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1220 - ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING NET PROFIT SHARE PAYMENT FOR OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASES
##### ยง 1220.033 Audits.

(a) The accounts of an NPSL lessee or of a contractor of the lessee which are related to NPSL operations shall be subject to audit by DOI or its appointed agent. Where possible, the auditor for DOI shall coordinate audit efforts with other nonoperators, if any. DOI shall have the right to initiate an audit any time within thirty-six months of the due date of the monthly statement that is to be audited or the date that the statement was mailed, whichever is later, provided, however, that audits may not be conducted any more frequently than once every year except upon a showing of fraud or willful misrepresentation.

(b)(1) When nonoperators of an NPSL lease call an audit in accordance with the terms of their operating agreement, the ONRR Director shall be notified of the audit call in the same manner as the operator is notified. DOI may elect to send an auditor with the audit team specified by the nonoperators in lieu of calling for a separate audit by DOI.

(2) If DOI determines to call for an audit, DOI shall notify the lessee of its audit call and set a time and place for the audit. Such a notice shall be sent at least thirty days before the suggested time for the audit to allow the nonoperators to join in DOI's audit in lieu of calling for their own audit. The place for the audit will normally be the place where the lessee maintains its records pertaining to the NPSL lease. The lessee shall send copies of the notice to the nonoperators on the lease. The lessee shall use reasonable effort to notify all nonoperators, but failure to include one or more nonoperators in the notification shall not void the notice.

(3) When DOI calls for an audit, DOI may suggest the date and time when the audit may commence. The estimated duration of the audit may be mentioned to the lessee as well as to the other nonoperators who may elect to supply and auditor for their own audit purposes. The lessee's office where the audit will be held may be named or, if not known, inquired about. If a visit to a field plant or field office is contemplated by the government auditor, such a field trip may be mentioned. If DOI expresses a desire to review a period on which the thirty-six month time limitation has expired, it is the lessee's prerogative to allow the review or to request that DOI adhere to the time limitation specified in these regulations.

(c)(1) Exceptions to the accounting by the lessee, whether in favor of the government or the lessee, shall be noted in a report to the lessee. The lessee shall have 60 days from the mailing of a notice of exceptions to agree to the adjustments proposed by the DOI auditor or to object to the proposed adjustments. If the lessee accepts the proposed adjustments, the adjustment shall be booked in the month in which the lessee agrees to the adjustment, except where such adjustment would have resulted in a change in any net profit share payment due the United States. In such a case, there shall be a redetermination of the NPSL capital account pursuant to ยง 1220.034.

(2) If the lessee disagrees with the adjustment, the lessee shall have the right to appeal the adjustment to the ONRR Director.

(d) Upon receipt of an agreement by the government auditor that there are no required audit adjustments, upon final determination with respect to any audit adjustment proposed by the government auditor, or upon the lapse of thirty-six months from the due date or date of mailing of the statement of account on an NPSL lease, whichever comes later, the books shall be closed for audit adjustment purposes, except upon a showing of fraud or willful misrepresentation.

(e) Records required to be kept under ยง 1220.030(a) shall be made available for inspection by any authorized agent of DOI at any time during normal business hours upon the request of the ONRR Director or other authorized official.
