
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1227 - DELEGATION TO STATES
##### Delegation Process
###### ยง 1227.110 When and for how long are delegation agreements effective?
####### www.boemre.gov,

(a) Delegation agreements are effective for 3 years from the date the ONRR Director signs the delegation agreement. However, during the development of the State's delegation proposal under ยง 1227.108 of this part, ONRR, the delegated State, and any other affected person will determine an appropriate transition period for lessees and their designees to modify their systems to comply with any new requirements under a delegation agreement. ONRR will publish notice of the effective date of a State's delegation agreement in theand that notice will inform lessees and their designees of any transition period. ONRR also will post the proposals on the ONRR Website atand upon request, will send a copy of the delegation proposals to trade associations to distribute to their members.

(b) You may ask ONRR to renew the delegation for an additional 3 years no less than 6 months before your 3-year delegation agreement expires. You must submit your renewal request to the Director for Office of Natural Resources Revenue as follows:

(1) If you do not want to change the terms of your delegation agreement for the renewal period, you need only ask to extend your existing agreement for the 3-year renewal period. ONRR will not schedule a hearing unless you request one;

(2) If you want to change the terms of your delegation agreement for the renewal period, you must submit a new delegation proposal under this part.

(c) The ONRR Director may approve your renewal request only if ONRR determines that you are meeting the requirements of the applicable standards and regulations. If the ONRR Director denies your renewal request, ONRR will state the reasons for denial. ONRR also will inform you in writing of the conditions you must meet to receive approval. You may submit a new renewal request any time after denial.

(d) After the 3-year renewal period for your delegation agreement ends, if you wish to continue performing one or more delegated functions, you must request a new delegation agreement from ONRR under this part. ONRR will schedule a hearing on your request, if ONRR determines a hearing is appropriate. As part of the decision whether to approve your request for a new delegation, the ONRR Director will consider whether you are meeting the requirements of the applicable standards and regulations under your existing delegation agreement.

(e) If you do not request a hearing under paragraphs (b)(1) or (d) of this section, any other affected person may submit a written request for a hearing under those paragraphs to the ONRR Associate Director for Minerals Revenue Management.
