
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1227 - DELEGATION TO STATES
##### ยง 1227.700 What enforcement documents may a State issue in support of its delegated function?

This section explains what enforcement actions you may take as part of your delegated functions.

(a) You may issue demands, subpoenas, and orders to perform restructured accounting, including related notices to lessees and their designees. You also may enter into tolling agreements under section 15(d)(1) of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 1725(d)(1).

(b) When you issue any enforcement document you must comply with the requirements of section 115 of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 1725.

(c) When you issue a demand or enter into a tolling agreement under section 15(d)(1) of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 1725(d)(1), the highest State official having ultimate authority over the collection of royalties or the State official to whom that authority has been delegated must sign the demand or tolling agreement.

(d) When you issue a subpoena or order to perform a restructured accounting you must:

(1) Coordinate with ONRR to ensure identification of issues that may concern more than one State before you issue subpoenas and orders to perform restructured accounting; and

(2) Ensure that the highest State official having ultimate authority over the collection of royalties signs any subpoenas and orders to perform restructured accounting, as required under section 115 of the Act, 30 U.S.C. 1725. This official may not delegate signature authority to any other person.
