
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1228 - COOPERATIVE ACTIVITIES WITH STATES AND INDIAN TRIBES
##### Subpart C - Oil and Gas, Onshore
###### ยง 1228.101 Terms of agreement.

(a) Agreements entered into under this part shall be valid for a period of 3 years and shall be renewable or additional consecutive 3-year periods upon request of the State or Indian tribe which is a party to the agreement.

(b) An agreement may be terminated at any time by mutual agreement and upon any terms and conditions as agreed upon by the parties.

(c) A State or Indian tribe may unilaterally terminate an agreement by giving a 120-day written notice of intent to terminate.

(d) The ONRR may commence termination of an agreement by giving a 120-day written notice of intent to terminate. ONRR shall provide the State or Indian tribe with the reasons for the proposed termination in writing if the termination is proposed because of alleged deficiencies by the State or Indian tribe in carrying out the provisions of the agreement. The State or Indian tribe will be given 60 days to respond to the notice of deficiencies and to provide a plan for correction of those deficiencies. No final action on termination shall be taken until any submission of the State or Indian tribe provided within the above prescribed 60 days has been reviewed by ONRR for content or merit.

(e) Termination of a cooperative agreement shall not bar a later request by a State or Indian tribe to enter into a subsequent cooperative agreement.
