
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1228 - COOPERATIVE ACTIVITIES WITH STATES AND INDIAN TRIBES
##### Subpart C - Oil and Gas, Onshore
###### ยง 1228.100 Entering into an agreement.

(a) A State or Indian tribe may request the Department to enter into a cooperative agreement by sending a letter from the governor, tribal chairman, or other appropriate official with delegation authority, to the Director of ONRR.

(b) The request for an agreement shall be in a format prescribed by ONRR and should include at a minimum the following information:

(1) Type of eligible activities to be undertaken.

(2) Proposed term of the agreement.

(3) Evidence that the State or Indian tribe meets, or can meet by the time the agreement is in effect, the standards established by the Secretary for the types of activities to be conducted under the terms of the agreement.

(4) If the State is proposing to undertake activities on Indian lands located within the State, a resolution from the appropriate tribal council indicating their agreement to delegate to the State responsibilities under the terms of the cooperative agreement for activities to be conducted on tribal or allotted land.

(c) The eligible activities to be conducted under the terms of a cooperative agreement may be funded or unfunded by the Department. See ยง 1228.105 of this subpart for funding of cooperative agreements.
