
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1228 - COOPERATIVE ACTIVITIES WITH STATES AND INDIAN TRIBES
##### Subpart C - Oil and Gas, Onshore
###### ยง 1228.104 Availability of information.

(a) Under the provisions of this part, information necessary to carry out the activities authorized under the terms of a cooperative agreement will be provided by DOI to the States and Indian tribes entering into such agreements. The information will consist of data provided from all relevant sources on a lease level basis for leases located within the boundaries of the State or Indian tribe which has entered into the agreement. This information will include any records or data held by the lessee or other person that have not been submitted to ONRR, but that affect Federal lease interests and could be required to be submitted under the lease terms or Federal regulations.

(b) None of the provisions of this subpart should be construed as limiting information already being provided to Indian tribes and allottees regarding their lease interests.

(c) Information will be provided by ONRR on a monthly basis and will include data on royalties, rents, and bonuses collected on the lease, volumes produced, sales made, value of products disposed of as a sale and used as a basis for royalty calculation, and other information necessary to allow the State or tribe to carry out its responsibilities under the cooperative agreement.

(d) Proprietary data that is made available to a State or tribe under provisions of 30 U.S.C. 1733 shall be subject to the constraints of 18 U.S.C. 1905. To receive proprietary data, the State or tribe must-

(1) Demonstrate what audit, investigation, or litigation under provisions of 30 U.S.C. 1734 is planned for or underway for which this data is essential;

(2) Demonstrate why this particular data is necessary; and

(3) Agree to safeguard proprietary data as provided.
