
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 48 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS
##### Subpart A - Training and Retraining of Underground Miners
###### § 48.3 Training plans; time of submission; where filed; information required; time for approval; method for disapproval; commencement of training; approval of instructors.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (o) and (p) of this section, each operator of an underground mine shall have an MSHA approved plan containing programs for training new miners, training experienced miners, training miners for new tasks, annual refresher training, and hazard training for miners as follows:

(1) In the case of an underground mine which is operating on the effective date of this subpart A, the operator of the mine shall submit such plan for approval within 90 days after the effective date of this subpart A.

(2) Within 60 days after the operator submits the plan for approval, unless extended by MSHA, the operator shall have an approved plan for the mine.

(3) In the case of a new underground mine which is to be opened or a mine which is to be reopened or reactivated after the effective date of this subpart A, the operator shall have an approved plan prior to opening the new mine, or reopening or reactivating the mine.

(b) The training plan shall be filed with the District Manager for the area in which the mine is located.

(c) Each operator shall submit to the District Manager the following information:

(1) The company name, mine name, and MSHA identification number of the mine.

(2) The name and position of the person designated by the operator who is responsible for health and safety training at the mine. This person may be the operator.

(3) A list of MSHA approved instructors with whom the operator proposes to make arrangements to teach the courses, and the courses each instructor is qualified to teach.

(4) The location where training will be given for each course.

(5) A description of the teaching methods and the course materials which are to be used in training.

(6) The approximate number of miners employed at the mine and the maximum number who will attend each session of training.

(7) The predicted time or periods of time when regularly scheduled refresher training will be given. This schedule shall include the titles of courses to be taught, the total number of instruction hours for each course, and the predicted time and length of each session of training.

(8) For the purposes of § 48.7 (New task training of miners) of this subpart A, the operator shall submit:

(i) A complete list of task assignments to correspond with the definition of "task" in § 48.2 (f) of this subpart A.

(ii) The titles of personnel conducting the training for this section.

(iii) The outline of training procedures used in training miners in those work assignments listed according to paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section.

(iv) The evaluation procedures used to determine the effectiveness of training under § 48.7 of this subpart A.

(d) The operator shall furnish to the representative of the miners a copy of the training plan two weeks prior to its submission to the District Manager. Where a miners' representative is not designated, a copy of the plan shall be posted on the mine bulletin board 2 weeks prior to its submission to the District Manager. Written comments received by the operator from miners or their representatives shall be submitted to the District Manager. Miners or their representatives may submit written comments directly to the District Manager.

(e) All training required by the training plan submitted to and approved by the District Manager as required by this subpart A shall be subject to evaluation by the District Manager to determine the effectiveness of the training programs. If it is deemed necessary, the District Manager may require changes in, or additions to, programs. Upon request from the District Manager the operator shall make available for evaluation the instructional materials, handouts, visual aids and other teaching accessories used or to be used in the training programs. Upon request from the District Manager the operator shall provide information concerning the schedules of upcoming training.

(f) The operator shall make a copy of the MSHA approved training plan available at the mine site for MSHA inspection and for examination by the miners and their representatives.

(g) Except as provided in § 48.7 (New task training of miners) and § 48.11 (Hazard training) of this subpart A, all courses shall be conducted by MSHA approved instructors.

(h) Instructors shall be approved by the District Manager in one or more of the following ways:

(1) Instructors shall take an instructor's training course conducted by the District Manager or given by persons designated by the District Manager to give such instruction; and instructors shall have satisfactorily completed a program of instruction approved by the Office of Educational Policy and Development, MSHA, in the subject matter to be taught.

(2) Instructors may be designated by MSHA as approved instructors to teach specific courses based on written evidence of the instructors' qualifications and teaching experience.

(3) At the discretion of the District Manager, instructors may be designated by MSHA as approved instructors to teach specific courses based on the performance of the instructors while teaching classes monitored by MSHA. Operators shall indicate in the training plans submitted for approval whether they want to have instructors approved based on monitored performance. The District Manager shall consider such factors as the size of the mine, the number of employees, the mine safety record and remoteness from a training facility when determining whether instructor approval based on monitored performance is appropriate.

(4) On the effective date of this subpart A, cooperative instructors who have been designated by MSHA to teach MSHA approved courses and who have taught such courses within the 24 months prior to the effective date of this subpart shall be considered approved instructors for such courses.

(i) Instructors may have their approval revoked by MSHA for good cause which may include not teaching a course at least once every 24 months. Before any revocation is effective, the District Manager must send written reasons for revocation to the instructor and the instructor shall be given an opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance before the District Manager on the matter. A decision by the District Manager to revoke an instructor's approval may be appealed by the instructor to the Administrator for Coal Mine Safety and Health or Administrator for Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health, as appropriate, MSHA, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452. Such an appeal shall be submitted to the Administrator within 5 days of notification of the District Manager's decision. Upon revocation of an instructor's approval, the District Manager shall immediately notify operators who use the instructor for training.

(j) The District Manager for the area in which the mine is located shall notify the operator and the miners' representative, in writing, within 60 days from the date on which the training plan is filed, of the approval or status of the approval of the training programs.

(1) If revisions are required for approval, or to retain approval thereafter, the revisions required shall be specified to the operator and the miners' representative and the operator and the miners' representative shall be afforded an opportunity to discuss the revisions with the District Manager, or to propose alternate revisions or changes. The District Manager, in consultation with the operator and the representative of the miners, shall fix a time within which the discussion will be held, or alternate revisions or changes submitted, before final approval is made.

(2) The District Manager may approve separate programs of the training plan and withhold approval of other programs, pending discussion of revisions or submission of alternate revisions or changes.

(k) Except as provided under § 48.8(c) (Annual refresher training of miners) of this subpart A, the operator shall commence training of miners within 60 days after approval of the training plan, or approved programs of the training plan.

(l) The operator shall notify the District Manager of the area in which the mine is located, and the miners' representative of any changes or modifications the operator proposes to make in the approved training plan. The operator shall obtain the approval of the District Manager for such changes or modifications.

(m) In the event the District Manager disapproves a training plan or a proposed modification of a training plan or requires changes in a training plan or modification, the District Manager shall notify the operator and the miners' representative in writing of:

(1) The specific changes or items of deficiency.

(2) The action necessary to effect the changes or bring the disapproved training plan or modification into compliance.

(3) The deadline for completion of remedial action to effect compliance, which shall serve to suspend punitive action under the provisions of sections 104 and 110 of the Act and other related regulations until that established deadline date, except that no such suspension shall take place in imminent danger situations.

(n) The operator shall post on the mine bulletin board, and provide to the miners' representative, a copy of all MSHA revisions and decisions which concern the training plan at the mine and which are issued by the District Manager.

(o) Each operator engaged in shaft or slope construction shall have an MSHA-approved training plan, as outlined in this section, containing programs for training new miners, training experienced miners, training miners for new tasks, annual refresher training, and hazard training for miners as follows:

(1) In the case of an operator engaged in shaft or slope construction on December 30, 2005, the operator shall submit a plan for approval by May 1, 2006, unless extended by MSHA.

(2) In the case of a new shaft or slope construction operator after June 28, 2006, the operator shall have an approved plan prior to commencing shaft or slope construction.

(p) Each underground coal operator, who is required to submit a revised program of instruction for 30 CFR 75.1502, shall also submit a revised training plan under this part 48.
