
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1229 - DELEGATION TO STATES
##### Subpart C - Oil and Gas, Onshore
###### Delegation Requirements
####### ยง 1229.123 Standards for audit activities.
######## Standards of reporting.

(3)(i) Written audit reports are to be submitted to the appropriate ONRR officials at the end of each field examination.

(ii) A statement in the auditors' report that the examination was made in accordance with the generally accepted program audit standards (including the applicable General Accounting Office (GAO) standards) for royalty compliance audits should be in the appropriate language to indicate that the audit was made in accordance with this statement of standards.

(iii) The auditor's report should contain a statement of positive assurance on those items tested and negative assurance on those items not tested. It should also include all instances of noncompliance and instances or indications of fraud, abuse, or illegal acts found during or in connection with the audit.

(iv) The auditor's report should contain any other material deficiency identified during the audit not covered in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(v) When factors external to the program and to the auditor restrict the audit or interfere with the auditor's ability to form objective opinions and conclusions (such as denial of access to information by a company), the auditor is to notify the ONRR. If the limitation is not removed, a description of the matter must be included in the auditor's report. ONRR will take all legally enforceable steps necessary to seek information necessary to complete the audit.

(vi) If certain information is prohibited from general disclosure, the auditor's report should state the nature of the information omitted and the requirement that makes the omission necessary.

(vii) Written audit reports are to be prepared in the format prescribed by the ONRR.

(viii) In instances where the extent of the audit findings or the amounts involved do not warrant it, a formal audit report need not be issued. In lieu of an audit report, a memorandum of audit findings will be prepared and placed on the case file.
