
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1241 - PENALTIES
##### Subpart B - Notices of Noncompliance and Civil Penalties
###### Penalties With a Period To Correct
####### ยง 1241.52 What if I do not correct the violation identified in a NONC?

(a) If you do not correct all of the violations that we identified in the NONC within 20 days after the date on which you are served the NONC, or any longer period that the NONC specifies for correction, then we may send you an FCCP.

(1) The FCCP will state the amount of the penalty that you must pay. The penalty will:

(i) Begin to run on the day on which you were served with the NONC.

(ii) Continue to accrue for each violation identified in the NONC until it is corrected.

(2) The penalty may be up to $1,474 per day for each violation identified in the NONC that you have not corrected.

(b) If you do not correct all of the violations identified in the NONC within 40 days after you are served the NONC, or within 20 days following the expiration of any period longer than 20 days that the NONC specifies for correction, then we may increase the penalty to a maximum of $14,754 per day for each violation identified in the NONC that you have not corrected. The increased penalty will:

(1) Begin to run on the 40th day after the date on which you were served the NONC, or on the 20th day after the expiration of any period longer than 20 days that the NONC specifies for correction.

(2) Continue to accrue for each violation identified in the NONC until it is corrected.
