
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Appeals
#### PART 1290 - APPEAL PROCEDURES
##### ยง 1290.105 How do I appeal an order?

(a)(1) You may appeal to the Director, Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR Director), by filing a Notice of Appeal in the office of the official issuing the Order:

(i) Within 30 days from service of an Order to Pay or a Denial involving Federal or Indian mineral leases, or an Order to Perform a Restructured Accounting involving Indian mineral leases or Federal solid mineral or geothermal leases; or

(ii) Within 60 days from service of an Order to Perform a Restructured Accounting involving Federal oil and gas leases if a delegated State issued the Order to Perform a Restructured Accounting.

(2) If the ONRR Director, or other most senior career professional responsible for the ONRR royalty management program, issued the Order to Perform a Restructured Accounting for a Federal oil and gas lease, then you may appeal that order to the IBLA within 60 days under ยง 1290.108.

(3) For appeals to the ONRR Director under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, within the same 30-day or 60-day period, whichever is applicable, you must file in the office of the official issuing the Order to Pay, Order to Perform a Restructured Accounting, or Denial, a statement of reasons, or written arguments, or brief that includes the arguments on the facts or law that you believe justify reversal or modification of the Order to Pay, Order to Perform a Restructured Accounting, or Denial.

(4) If you are a designee, when you file your Notice of Appeal, you must concurrently serve your Notice of Appeal on the lessees for the leases in the Order to Pay, Order to Perform a Restructured Accounting, or Denial you appealed.

(b) You may not request and will not receive an extension of time for filing the Notice of Appeal.

(c) If the office of the official issuing the order does not receive the Notice of Appeal within the time provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Notice of Appeal will be considered timely if the office of the official issuing the order receives:

(1) The Notice of Appeal not later than 10 days after the required filing date; and

(2) The officer with whom the Notice of Appeal must be filed determines that the Notice of Appeal was transmitted to the proper office before the filing deadline in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) If the Notice of Appeal is filed after the grace period provided in paragraph (c) of this section and was not transmitted to the proper office before the filing deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, the ONRR Director will not consider the Notice of Appeal and the case will be closed.

(e) The officer with whom the Notice of Appeal is filed will send the appeal and accompanying papers to the ONRR Director.

(f) The ONRR Director will review the record and render a decision in the case.

(g) If an order involves Indian leases, the Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs will exercise the functions vested in the ONRR Director.
