
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 48 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS
##### Subpart A - Training and Retraining of Underground Miners
###### ยง 48.6 Experienced miner training.
####### Self-rescue and respiratory devices.

(12)The course shall be given before the miner goes underground and shall include-

(i) Instruction and demonstration in the use, care, and maintenance of self-rescue and respiratory devices used at the mine;

(ii) Hands-on training in the complete donning of all types of self-contained self-rescue devices used at the mine, which includes assuming a donning position, opening the device, activating the device, inserting the mouthpiece, and putting on the nose clip; and

(iii) Hands-on training in transferring between all applicable self-rescue devices.

(13) Such other courses as may be required by the District Manager based on circumstances and conditions at the mine.

(c) The operator may include instruction on additional safety and health subjects based on circumstances and conditions at the mine.

(d) The training time spent on individual subjects must vary depending upon the training needs of the miners.

(e) Any miner returning to the same mine, following an absence of 12 months or less, must receive training on any major changes to the mine environment that have occurred during the miner's absence and that could adversely affect the miner's health or safety.

(1) A person designated by the operator who is knowledgeable of these changes must conduct the training in this paragraph. An MSHA approved instructor is not required to conduct the training outlined in this paragraph.

(2) No record of this training is required.

(3) The miner must also complete annual refresher training as required in ยง 48.8, if the miner missed taking that training during the absence.
