
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 48 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS
##### Subpart B - Training and Retraining of Miners Working at Surface Mines and Surface Areas of Underground Mines
###### ยง 48.25 Training of new miners; minimum courses of instruction; hours of instruction.
####### Provided,

(a) Each new miner shall receive no less than 24 hours of training as prescribed in this section. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, new miners shall receive this training before they are assigned to work duties. At the discretion of the District Manager, new miners may receive a portion of this training after assignment to work duties:That no less than 8 hours of training shall in all cases be given to new miners before they are assigned to work duties. The following courses shall be included in the 8 hours of training: Introduction to work environment, hazard recognition, and health and safety aspects of the tasks to which the new miners will be assigned. Following the completion of this preassignment training, new miners shall then receive the remainder of the required 24 hours of training, or up to 16 hours, within 60 days. Operators shall indicate in the training plans submitted for approval whether they want to train new miners after assignment to duties and for how many hours. In determining whether new miners may be given this training after they are assigned duties, the District Manager shall consider such factors as the mine safety record, rate of employee turnover and mine size. Miners who have not received the full 24 hours of new miner training shall be required to work under the close supervision of an experienced miner.

(b) The training program for new miners shall include the following courses:
