
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 48 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS
##### Subpart B - Training and Retraining of Miners Working at Surface Mines and Surface Areas of Underground Mines
###### ยง 48.25 Training of new miners; minimum courses of instruction; hours of instruction.
####### Health and safety aspects of the tasks to which the new miner will be assigned.

(12)The course shall include instructions in the health and safety aspects of the tasks to be assigned, including the safe work procedures of such tasks, the mandatory health and safety standards pertinent to such tasks, information about the physical and health hazards of chemicals in the miner's work area, the protective measures a miner can take against these hazards, and the contents of the mine's HazCom program.

(13) Such other courses as may be required by the District Manager based on circumstances and conditions at the mine.

(c) Methods, including oral, written or practical demonstration, to determine successful completion of the training shall be included in the training plan. Upon completion of training, the methods for determining successful completion shall be administered to the miner. The method for determining successful completion of pre-assignment training under paragraph (a) of this section shall be administered to the miner before he is assigned to work duties.

(d) A newly employed miner who has less than 12 months of mining experience and has received the courses and hours of instruction in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, within 36 months preceding employment at a mine, does not have to repeat this training. Before the miner starts work, the operator must provide the miner with the experienced miner training in ยง 48.26(b) of this part and, if applicable, the new task training in ยง 48.27 of this part. The operator must also provide the miner with annual refresher training and additional new task training, as applicable.
