
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 48 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS
##### Subpart B - Training and Retraining of Miners Working at Surface Mines and Surface Areas of Underground Mines
###### ยง 48.26 Experienced miner training.
####### Health and safety aspects of the tasks to which the experienced miner is assigned.

(11)The course must include instruction in the health and safety aspects of the tasks assigned, including the safe work procedures of such tasks, information about the physical and health hazards of chemicals in the miner's work area, the protective measures a miner can take against these hazards, and the contents of the mine's HazCom program. Experienced miners who must complete new task training under ยง 48.27 do not need to take training under this paragraph.

(12) Such other courses as may be required by the District Manager based on circumstances and conditions at the mine.

(c) The operator may include instruction in additional safety and health subjects based on circumstances and conditions at the mine.

(d) The training time spent on individual subjects must vary depending upon the training needs of the miners.

(e) Any miner returning to the same mine, following an absence of 12 months or less, must receive training on any major changes to the mine environment that have occurred during the miner's absence and that could adversely affect the miner's health or safety.

(1) A person designated by the operator who is knowledgeable of these changes must conduct the training in this paragraph. An MSHA approved instructor is not required to conduct the training outlined in this paragraph.

(2) No record of this training is required.

(3) The miner must complete annual refresher training as required in ยง 48.28, if the miner missed taking that training during the absence.
