
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 49 - MINE RESCUE TEAMS
##### Subpart A - Mine Rescue Teams for Underground Metal and Nonmetal Mines
###### ยง 49.8 Training for mine rescue teams.

(a) Prior to serving on a mine rescue team each member shall complete, at a minimum, an initial 20-hour course of instruction as prescribed by MSHA's Office of Educational Policy and Development, in the use, care, and maintenance of the type of breathing apparatus which will be used by the mine rescue team. The initial training requirement is waived for those miners on a mine rescue team on the effective date of this rule.

(b) Upon completion of the initial training, all team members shall receive at least 40 hours of refresher training annually. This training shall be given at least 4 hours each month, or for a period of 8 hours every two months. This training shall include:

(1) Sessions underground at least once each 6 months;

(2) The wearing and use of the breathing apparatus by team members for a period of at least two hours while under oxygen every two months;

(3) Where applicable, the use, care, capabilities, and limitations of auxiliary mine rescue equipment, or a different breathing apparatus;

(4) Advanced mine rescue training and procedures; as prescribed by MSHA's Office of Educational Policy and Development; and

(5) Mine map training and ventilation procedures.

(c) A mine rescue team member will be ineligible to serve on a team if more than 8 hours of training is missed during one year, unless additional training is received to make up for the time missed.

(d) The training courses required by this section shall be conducted by instructors who have been employed in an underground mine for a minimum of one year within the past five years, and who have received MSHA approval through:

(1) Completion of an MSHA or State approved instructor's training course and the program of instruction in the subject matter to be taught.

(2) Designation by the District Manager as approved instructors to teach specific courses, based on their qualifications and teaching experience. Previously approved instructors need not be re-designated to teach the approved courses as long as they have taught those courses within the 24 months prior to the effective date of this part. Where individuals are designated, the District Manager may waive the underground experience requirement.

(e) The District Manager may revoke an instructor's approval for good cause. A written statement revoking the approval together with reasons for revocation shall be provided the instructor. The affected instructor may appeal the decision of the District Manager by writing to the Administrator for Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health, MSHA, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452. The Administrator shall issue a decision on the appeal.

(f) Upon request from the District Manager, the operator shall provide information concerning the schedule of upcoming training.

(g) A record of training of each team member shall be on file at the mine rescue station for a period of one year.
