
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter I - Accidents, Injuries, Illnesses, Employment, and Production in Mines
#### PART 50 - NOTIFICATION, INVESTIGATION, REPORTS AND RECORDS OF ACCIDENTS, INJURIES, ILLNESSES, EMPLOYMENT, AND COAL PRODUCTION IN MINES
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Accidents, Injuries, and Illnesses
###### ยง 50.20-1 General instructions for completing MSHA Form 7000-1.
####### http://www.msha.gov.

Each Form 7000-1 consists of four sheets, an original and three copies. The original form shall be mailed to: MSHA Office of Injury and Employment Information, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo. 80225, within ten working days after an accident, occupational injury or occupational illness. At the same time, the first copy shall be mailed to the appropriate local MSHA district office. If the first copy does not contain a completed Section D-Return to Duty Information-the second copy shall be retained by the operator until the miner returns to work or a final disposition is made respecting the miner. When the miner returns to work or a final disposition is made, the operator shall, within five days, complete Section D and mail the second copy to the MSHA Office of Injury and Employment Information at the above address. A third copy, containing all the information in the first and second copies shall be retained at the mine office closest to the mine for a period of five years. You may also submit reports by facsimile, 888-231-5515. To file electronically, follow the instructions on MSHA Internet site,For assistance in electronic filing, contact the MSHA help desk at 877-778-6055.
