
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter I - Accidents, Injuries, Illnesses, Employment, and Production in Mines
#### PART 50 - NOTIFICATION, INVESTIGATION, REPORTS AND RECORDS OF ACCIDENTS, INJURIES, ILLNESSES, EMPLOYMENT, AND COAL PRODUCTION IN MINES
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Accidents, Injuries, and Illnesses
###### ยง 50.20-3 Criteria - Differences between medical treatment and first aid.

(a) Medical treatment includes, but is not limited to, the suturing of any wound, treatment of fractures, application of a cast or other professional means of immobilizing an injured part of the body, treatment of infection arising out of an injury, treatment of bruise by the drainage of blood, surgical removal of dead or damaged skin (debridement), amputation or permanent loss of use of any part of the body, treatment of second and third degree burns. Procedures which are diagnostic in nature are not considered by themselves to constitute medical treatments. Visits to a physician, physical examinations, X-ray examinations, and hospitalization for observations, where no evidence of injury or illness is found and no medical treatment given, do not in themselves constitute medical treatment. Procedures which are preventive in nature also are not considered by themselves to constitute medical treatment. Tetanus and flu shots are considered preventative in nature. First aid includes any one-time treatment, and follow-up visit for the purpose of observation, of minor injuries such as, cuts, scratches, first degree burns and splinters. Ointments, salves, antiseptics, and dressings to minor injuries are considered to be first aid.
