
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter I - Accidents, Injuries, Illnesses, Employment, and Production in Mines
#### PART 50 - NOTIFICATION, INVESTIGATION, REPORTS AND RECORDS OF ACCIDENTS, INJURIES, ILLNESSES, EMPLOYMENT, AND COAL PRODUCTION IN MINES
##### Subpart C - Reporting of Accidents, Injuries, and Illnesses
###### ยง 50.20-7 Criteria - MSHA Form 7000-1, Section D.

This section requires information concerning the miner's return to duty.

(a) Item 28. Permanently transferred or terminated. Check this block if the miner's employment was terminated or if the miner was permanently transferred to another regular job as a direct result of the occupational injury or occupational illness.

(b) Item 29. Show the date that the injured person returned to his regular job at full capacity (not to restricted work activity) or was transferred or terminated.

(c) Item 30. Number of days away from work. Enter the number of work-days, consecutive or not, on which the miner would have worked but could not because of occupational injury or occupational illness. The number of days away from work shall not include the day of injury or onset of illness or any days on which the miner would not have worked even though able to work. If an employee loses a day from work solely because of the unavailability of professional medical personnel for initial observation or treatment and not as a direct consequence of the injury or illness, the day should not be counted as a day away from work.

(d) Item 31. Number of days of restricted work activity. Enter the number of workdays, consecutive or not, on which because of occupational injury or occupational illness:

(1) The miner was assigned to another job on a temporary basis;

(2) The miner worked at a permanent job less than full time; or

(3) The miner worked at a permanently assigned job but could not perform all duties normally connected with it. The number of days of restricted work activity shall not include the day of injury or onset of illness, or any days the miner did not work even though able to work.

(i) The miner returns to his regularly scheduled job and performs all of its duties for a full day or shift;

(ii) The miner is permanently transferred to another permanent job (which shall be reported under Item 28, Permanently Transferred or Terminated). If this happens, even though the miner could not perform this original job any longer, the Days of Restricted Work Activity will stop; or

(iii) The miner is terminated or leaves the mine. (Termination shall also be reported under Item 28, Permanently Transferred or Terminated).
