
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter I - Accidents, Injuries, Illnesses, Employment, and Production in Mines
#### PART 50 - NOTIFICATION, INVESTIGATION, REPORTS AND RECORDS OF ACCIDENTS, INJURIES, ILLNESSES, EMPLOYMENT, AND COAL PRODUCTION IN MINES
##### Subpart D - Quarterly Employment and Coal Production Report
###### ยง 50.30-1 General instructions for completing MSHA Form 7000-2.
####### Average number of persons working during quarter:

(2)Show the average number of employees on the payroll during all active periods in the quarter. Include all classes of employees (supervisory, professional, technical proprietors, owners, operators, partners, and service personnel) on your payroll, full or part-time, Report Each Employee Under One Activity Only. For example: If one or more persons work both in the mine and the mill, report these employees under the activity where they spend most of their time. If necessary, estimate for the major activity. The average number may be computed by adding together the number of employees working during each pay period and then dividing by the number of pay periods. Do not include pay periods where no one worked. For example, during the quarter you had 5 pay periods where employees worked. The number of employees in each pay period was 10, 12, 13, 14 and 15 respectively. To compute the average, add the number of employees working each pay period (10 + 12 + 13 + 14 + 15 = 64). Then divide by the number of pay periods (64 divided by 5 = 12.8). Rounding this to the nearest whole number, we get 13 as the average number of persons working.
