
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart E - Diesel Engines Intended for Use in Underground Coal Mines
###### ยง 7.83 Application requirements.

(a) An application for approval of a diesel engine shall contain sufficient information to document compliance with the technical requirements of this subpart and specify whether the application is for a category A engine or category B engine.

(b) The application shall include the following engine specifications-

(1) Model number;

(2) Number of cylinders, cylinder bore diameter, piston stroke, engine displacement;

(3) Maximum recommended air inlet restriction and exhaust backpressure;

(4) Rated speed(s), rated horsepower(s) at rated speed(s), maximum torque speed, maximum rated torque, high idle, minimum permitted engine speed at full load, low idle;

(5) Fuel consumption at rated horsepower(s) and at the maximum rated torque;

(6) Fuel injection timing; and

(7) Performance specifications of turbocharger, if applicable.

(c) The application shall include dimensional drawings (including tolerances) of the following components specifying all details affecting the technical requirements of this subpart. Composite drawings specifying the required construction details may be submitted instead of individual drawings of the following components-

(1) Cylinder head;

(2) Piston;

(3) Inlet valve;

(4) Exhaust valve;

(5) Cam shaft-profile;

(6) Fuel cam shaft, if applicable;

(7) Injector body;

(8) Injector nozzle;

(9) Injection fuel pump;

(10) Governor;

(11) Turbocharger, if applicable;

(12) Aftercooler, if applicable;

(13) Valve guide;

(14) Cylinder head gasket; and

(15) Precombustion chamber, if applicable.

(d) The application shall include a drawing showing the general arrangement of the engine.

(e) All drawings shall be titled, dated, numbered, and include the latest revision number.

(f) When all necessary testing has been completed, the following information shall be submitted:

(1) The gaseous ventilation rate for the rated speed and horsepower.

(2) The particulate index for the rated speed and horsepower.

(3) A fuel deration chart for altitudes for each rated speed and horsepower.
