
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart E - Diesel Engines Intended for Use in Underground Coal Mines
###### ยง 7.86 Test equipment and specifications.

(a) Dynamometer test cell shall be used in determining the maximum f/a ratio, gaseous ventilation rates, and the particulate index.

(1) The following testing devices shall be provided:

(i) An apparatus for measuring torque that provides an accuracy of +/-2.0 percent based on the engine's maximum value;

(ii) An apparatus for measuring revolutions per minute (rpm) that provides an accuracy of +/-2.0 percent based on the engine's maximum value;

(iii) An apparatus for measuring temperature that provides an accuracy of +/-4 &#xB0;F (2 &#xB0;C) of the absolute value except for the exhaust gas temperature device that provides an accuracy of +/-27 &#xB0;F (15 &#xB0;C);

(iv) An apparatus for measuring intake and exhaust restriction pressures that provides an accuracy of +/-5 percent of maximum;

(v) An apparatus for measuring atmospheric pressure that provides an accuracy of +/-0.5 percent of reading;

(vi) An apparatus for measuring fuel flow that provides an accuracy of +/-2 percent based on the engine's maximum value;

(vii) An apparatus for measuring the inlet air flow rate of the diesel engine that provides an accuracy of +/-2 percent based on the engine's maximum value; and

(viii) For testing category A engines, an apparatus for metering in 1.0 +/-0.1 percent, by volume, of methane (CH) into the intake air system shall be provided.

(2) The test fuel specified in Table E-1 shall be a low volatile hydrocarbon fuel commercially designated as "Type 2-D" grade diesel fuel. The fuel may contain nonmetallic additives as follows: Cetane improver, metal deactivator, antioxidant, dehazer, antirust, pour depressant, dye, dispersant, and biocide.

(3) The test fuel temperature at the inlet to the diesel engine's fuel injection pump shall be controlled to the engine manufacturer's specification.

(4) The engine coolant temperature (if applicable) shall be maintained at normal operating temperatures as specified by the engine manufacturer.

(5) The charge air temperature and cooler pressure drop (if applicable) shall be set to within +/-7 &#xB0;F(4 &#xB0;C) and +/-0.59 inches Hg (2kPa) respectively, of the manufacturer's specification.

(b) Gaseous emission sampling system shall be used in determining the gaseous ventilation rates.

(1) The schematic of the gaseous sampling system shown in Figure E-1 shall be used for testing category A engines. Various configurations of Figure E-1 may produce equivalent results. The components in Figure E-1 are designated as follows-

(i) Filters-F1, F2, F3, and F4;

(ii) Flowmeters-FL1, FL2, FL3, FL4, FL5, FL6, and FL7;

(iii) Upstream Gauges-G1, G2, and G5;

(iv) Downstream Gauges-G3, G4, and G6;

(v) Pressure Gauges-P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, and P6;

(vi) Regulators-R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, and R7;

(vii) Selector Valves-V1, V2, V3, V4, V6, V7, V8, V15, and V19;

(viii) Heated Selector Valves-V5, V13, V16, and V17;

(ix) Flow Control Valves-V9, V10, V11 and V12;

(x) Heated Flow Control Valves-V14 and V18;

(xi) Pump-Sample Transfer Pump;

(xii) Temperature Sensor-(T1);

(xiii) Dryer-D1 and D2; and

(xiv) Water traps-WT1 and WT2.

(A) Water removal from the sample shall be done by condensation.

(B) The sample gas temperature or dew point shall be monitored either within the water trap or downstream of the water trap and shall not exceed 45 &#xB0;F (7 &#xB0;C).

(C) Chemical dryers are not permitted.

(2) The schematic of the gaseous sampling system shown in Figure E-2 shall be used for testing category B engines. Various configurations of Figure E-2 may produce equivalent results. The components are designated as follows-

(i) Filters-F1, F2, F3, and F4;

(ii) Flowmeters-FL1, FL2, FL3, and FL4;

(iii) Upstream Gauges-G1, and G2;

(iv) Downstream Gauges-G3, and G4;

(v) Pressure Gauges-P1, P2, P3, and P4;

(vi) Regulators-R1, R2, R3, and R4;

(vii) Selector Valves-V1, V2, V3, V4, V6, and V7;

(viii) Heated Selector Valves-V5, V8, and V12;

(ix) Flow Control Valves-V9, V10, V11;

(x) Heated Flow Control Valves-V13;

(xi) Pump-Sample Transfer Pump;

(xii) Temperature Sensor-(T1); and

(xiii) Water traps-WT1 and WT2.

(A) Water removal from the sample shall be done by condensation.

(B) The sample gas temperature or dew point shall be monitored either within the water trap or downstream of the water trap and shall not exceed 45 &#xB0;F (7 &#xB0;C).

(C) Chemical dryers are not permitted.

(3) All components or parts of components that are in contact with the sample gas or corrosive calibration gases shall be corrosion-resistant material.

(4) All analyzers shall obtain the sample to be analyzed from the same sample probe.

(5) CO and COmeasurements shall be made on a dry basis.

(6) Calibration or span gases for the NOmeasurement system shall pass through the NOto NO converter.

(7) A stainless steel sample probe shall be straight, closed-end, multi-holed, and shall be placed inside the exhaust pipe.

(i) The probe length shall be at least 80 percent of the diameter of the exhaust pipe.

(ii) The inside diameter of the sample probe shall not be greater than the inside diameter of the sample line.

(iii) The heated sample line shall have a 0.197 inch (5 mm) minimum and a 0.53 inch (13.5 mm) maximum inside diameter.

(iv) The wall thickness of the probe shall not be greater than 0.040 inch (1 mm).

(v) There shall be a minimum of 3 holes in 3 different radial planes sized to sample approximately the same flow.

(8) The sample probe shall be located in the exhaust pipe at a minimum distance of 1.6 feet (0.5 meters) or 3 times the diameter of the exhaust pipe, whichever is the larger, from the exhaust manifold outlet flange or the outlet of the turbocharger. The exhaust gas temperature at the sample probe shall be a minimum of 158 &#xB0;F (70 &#xB0;C).

(9) The maximum allowable leakage rate on the vacuum side of the analyzer pump shall be 0.5 percent of the in-use flow rate for the portion of the system being checked.
