
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart E - Diesel Engines Intended for Use in Underground Coal Mines
###### ยง 7.86 Test equipment and specifications.
####### General analyzer specifications.

(10)(i) The total measurement error, including the cross sensitivity to other gases, (paragraphs (b)(11)(ii), (b)(12)(iii), (b)(13)(iii), and (b)(13)(iv) of this section), shall not exceed +/-5 percent of the reading or +/-3.5 percent of full scale, whichever is smaller. For concentrations of less than 100 ppm the measurement error shall not exceed +/-4 ppm.

(ii) The repeatability, defined as 2.5 times the standard deviation of 10 repetitive responses to a given calibration or span gas, must be no greater than +/-1 percent of full scale concentration for each range used above 155 parts per million (ppm) or parts per million equivalent carbon (ppmC) or +/-2 percent of each range used below 155 ppm (or ppmC).

(iii) The analyzer peak to peak response to zero and calibration or span gases over any 10 second period shall not exceed 2 percent of full scale on all ranges used.

(iv) The analyzer zero drift during a 1-hour period shall be less than 2 percent of full scale on the lowest range used. The zero-response is the mean response, including noise, to a zero gas during a 30-second time interval.

(v) The analyzer span drift during a 1-hour period shall be less than 2 percent of full scale on the lowest range used. The analyzer span is defined as the difference between the span response and the zero response. The span response is the mean response, including noise, to a span gas during a 30-second time interval.
