
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart E - Diesel Engines Intended for Use in Underground Coal Mines
###### § 7.86 Test equipment and specifications.
####### CO and CO

(11)analyzer specifications. (i) Measurements shall be made with nondispersive infrared (NDIR) analyzers.

(ii) For the CO analyzer, the water and COinterference shall be less than 1 percent of full scale for ranges equal to or greater than 300 ppm (3 ppm for ranges below 300 ppm) when a COspan gas concentration of 80 percent to 100 percent of full scale of the maximum operating range used during testing is bubbled through water at room temperature.

(12) For NOanalysis using a chemiluminescence (CL) analyzer the following parameters shall apply:

(i) From the sample point to the NOto NO converter, the NOsample shall be maintained between 131 &#xB0;F (55 &#xB0;C) and 392 &#xB0;F (200 &#xB0;C).

(ii) The NOto NO converter efficiency shall be at least 90 percent.

(iii) The quench interference from COand water vapor must be less than 3.0 percent.

(13) For NOanalysis using an NDIR analyzer system the following parameters shall apply:

(i) The system shall include a NOto NO converter, a water trap, and a NDIR analyzer.

(ii) From the sample point to the NOto NO converter, the NOsample shall be maintained between 131 &#xB0;F (55 &#xB0;C) and 392 &#xB0;F (200 &#xB0;C).

(iii) The minimum water rejection ratio (maximum water interference) for the NONDIR analyzer shall be 5,000:1.

(iv) The minimum COrejection ratio (maximum COinterference) for the NONDIR analyzer shall be 30,000:1.

(14) When CHis measured using a heated flame ionization detector (HFID) the following shall apply:

(i) The analyzer shall be equipped with a constant temperature oven that houses the detector and sample-handling components.

(ii) The detector, oven, and sample-handling components shall be suitable for continuous operation at temperatures of 374 &#xB0;F (190 &#xB0;C) +/-18 &#xB0;F (10 &#xB0;C).

(iii) The analyzer fuel shall contain 40 +/-2 percent hydrogen. The balance shall be helium. The mixture shall contain &#x2264;1 part per million equivalent carbon (ppmC), and &#x2264;400 ppm CO.

(iv) The burner air shall contain <2 ppmC hydrocarbon.

(v) The percent of oxygen interference shall be less than 5 percent.

(15) An NDIR analyzer for measuring CHmay be used in place of the HFID specified in paragraph (b)(14) of this section and shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (b)(10) of this section. Methane measurements shall be made on a dry basis.

(16) Calibration gas values shall be traceable to the National Institute for Standards and Testing (NIST), "Standard Reference Materials" (SRM's). The analytical accuracy of the calibration gas values shall be within 2.0 percent of NIST gas standards.

(17) Span gas values shall be traceable to NIST SRM's. The analytical accuracy of the span gas values shall be within 2.0 percent of NIST gas standards.

(18) Calibration or span gases for the CO and COanalyzers shall have purified nitrogen as a diluent. Calibration or span gases for the CHanalyzer shall be CHwith purified synthetic air or purified nitrogen as diluent.

(19) Calibration or span gases for the NOanalyzer shall be NO with a maximum NOconcentration of 5 percent of the NO content. Purified nitrogen shall be the diluent.

(20) Zero-grade gases for the CO, CO, CH, and NOanalyzers shall be either purified synthetic air or purified nitrogen.

(21) The allowable zero-grade gas (purified synthetic air or purified nitrogen) impurity concentrations shall not exceed &#x2264;1ppm C, &#x2264;1 ppm CO, &#x2264;400 ppm CO, and &#x2264;0.1 ppm NO.

(22) The calibration and span gases may also be obtained by means of a gas divider. The accuracy of the mixing device must be such that the concentration of the diluted calibration gases are within 2 percent.

(c) Particulate sampling system shall be used in determining the particulate index. A schematic of a full flow (single dilution) particulate sampling system for testing under this subpart is shown in Figures E-3 and E-4.

(1) The dilution system shall meet the following parameters:

(i) Either a positive displacement pump (PDP) or a critical flow venturi (CFV) shall be used as the pump/mass measurement device shown in Figure E-3.

(ii) The total volume of the mixture of exhaust and dilution air shall be measured.

(iii) All parts of the system from the exhaust pipe up to the filter holder, which are in contact with raw and diluted exhaust gas, shall be designed to minimize deposition or alteration of the particulate.

(iv) All parts shall be made of electrically conductive materials that do not react with exhaust gas components.

(v) All parts shall be electrically grounded to prevent electrostatic effects.

(vi) Systems other than full flow systems may also be used provided they yield equivalent results where:

(A) A seven sample pair (or larger) correlation study between the system under consideration and a full flow dilution system shall be run concurrently.

(B) Correlation testing is to be performed at the same laboratory, test cell, and on the same engine.

(C) The equivalency criterion is defined as a +/-5 percent agreement of the sample pair averages.

(2) The mass of particulate in the exhaust shall be collected by filtration. The exhaust temperature immediately before the primary particulate filter shall not exceed 125 &#xB0;F (52.0 &#xB0;C).

(3) Exhaust system backpressure shall not be artificially lowered by the PDP, CFV systems or dilution air inlet system. Static exhaust backpressure measured with the PDP or CFV system operating shall remain within +/-0.44 inches Hg (1.5 kPa) of the static pressure measured without being connected to the PDP or CFV at identical engine speed and load.

(4) The gas mixture temperature shall be measured at a point immediately ahead of the pump or mass measurement device.

(i) Using PDP, the gas mixture temperature shall be maintained within +/-10 &#xB0;F (6.0 &#xB0;C) of the average operating temperature observed during the test, when no flow compensation is used.

(ii) Flow compensation can be used provided that the temperature at the inlet to the PDP does not exceed 122 &#xB0;F (50 &#xB0;C).

(iii) Using CFV, the gas mixture temperature shall be maintained within +/-20 &#xB0;F (11 &#xB0;C) of the average operating temperature observed during the test, when no flow compensation is used.

(5) The heat exchanger shall be of sufficient capacity to maintain the temperature within the limits required above and is optional if electronic flow compensation is used.

(6) When the temperature at the inlet of either the PDP or CFV exceeds the limits stated in either paragraphs (c)(4)(i) or (c)(4)(iii) of this section, an electronic flow compensation system shall be required for continuous measurement of the flow rate and control of the proportional sampling in the particulate sampling system.

(7) The flow capacity of the system shall be large enough to eliminate water condensation.

(8) The flow capacity of the PDP or CFV system using single dilution shall maintain the diluted exhaust at 125 &#xB0;F (52.0 &#xB0;C) or less immediately before the primary particulate filter.

(9) The flow capacity of the PDP or CFV system using a double dilution system shall be sufficient to maintain the diluted exhaust in the dilution tunnel at 375 &#xB0;F (191 &#xB0;C) or less at the sampling zone.

(10) The secondary dilution system shall provide sufficient secondary dilution air to maintain the double-diluted exhaust stream at 125 &#xB0;F (52.0 &#xB0;C) or less immediately before the primary particulate filter.

(11) The gas flow meters or the mass flow measurement instrumentation shall have a maximum error of the measured value within +/-2 percent of reading.

(12) The dilution air shall have a temperature of 77 &#xB0;F +/-9 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C +/-5 &#xB0;C), and be-

(i) Filtered at the air inlet; or

(ii) Sampled to determine background particulate levels, which can then be subtracted from the values measured in the exhaust stream.

(13) The dilution tunnel shall have the following specifications:

(i) Be small enough in diameter to cause turbulent flow (Reynolds number greater than 4,000) and of sufficient length to cause complete mixing of the exhaust and dilution air;

(ii) Be at least 3 inches (75 mm) in diameter; and

(iii) Be configured to direct the engine exhaust downstream at the point where it is introduced into the dilution tunnel for thorough mixing.

(14) The exhaust pipe length from the exit of the engine exhaust manifold or turbocharger outlet to the dilution tunnel shall not exceed a total length of 32 feet (10 m).

(i) When the exhaust pipe exceeds 12 feet (4 m), then all pipe in excess of 12 feet (4 m) shall be insulated with a radial thickness of at least 1.0 inch (25 mm) and the thermal conductivity of the insulating material shall be no greater than 0.1 W/mK measured at 752 &#xB0;F (400 &#xB0;C).

(ii) To reduce the thermal inertia of the exhaust pipe, the thickness to diameter ratio shall be 0.015 or less.

(iii) The use of flexible sections shall be limited to the length to diameter ratio of 12 or less.

(15) The particulate sample probe shall-

(i) Be installed in the dilution tunnel facing upstream, on the dilution tunnel centerline, and approximately 10 dilution tunnel diameters downstream of the point where the engine's exhaust enters the dilution tunnel; and

(ii) Have 0.5 inches (12 mm) minimum inside diameter.

(16) The inlet gas temperature to the particulate sample pump or mass measurement device shall remain a constant temperature of +/-5 &#xB0;F (3.0 &#xB0;C) if flow compensation is not used.

(17) The secondary dilution portion of the double dilution system shall have:

(i) A particulate transfer tube shall have a 0.5 inch (12 mm) minimum inside diameter not to exceed 40 inches (1020 mm) in length measured from the probe tip to the secondary dilution tunnel has:

(A) An inlet with the transfer tube facing upstream in the primary dilution tunnel, centerline, and approximately 10 dilution tunnel diameters downstream of the point where the engine's exhaust enters the dilution tunnel.

(B) An outlet where the transfer tube exits on the centerline of the secondary tunnel and points downstream.

(ii) A secondary tunnel that has a minimum diameter of 3.0 inches (75 mm), and of sufficient length to provide a residence time of at least 0.25 seconds for the double-diluted sample.

(iii) Secondary dilution air supplied at a temperature of 77 &#xB0;F +/-9 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C +/-5 &#xB0;C).

(iv) A primary filter holder located within 12.0 inches (300 mm) of the exit of the secondary tunnel.

(18) The particulate sampling filters shall-

(i) Be fluorocarbon-coated glass fiber filters or fluorocarbon-based (membrane) filters and have a 0.3 µm di-octylphthalate (DOP) collection efficiency of at least 95 percent at a gas face velocity between 35 and 80 cm/s.;

(ii) Have a minimum diameter of 1.85 inches (47 mm), 1.46 inches (37 mm) stain diameter;

(iii) Have a minimum filter loading ratio of 0.5mg/1075 mmstain area for the single filter method.

(iv) Have minimum filter loading such that the sum of all eight (8) multiple filters is equal to the minimum loading value (mg) for a single filter multiplied by the square root of eight (8).

(v) Be sampled at the same time by a pair of filters in series (one primary and one backup filter) so that:

(A) The backup filter holder shall be located no more than 4 inches (100 mm) downstream of the primary filter holder.

(B) The primary and backup filters shall not be in contact with each other.

(C) The filters may be weighed separately or as a pair with the filters placed stain side to stain side.

(D) The single filter method incorporates a bypass system for passing the sample through the filters at the desired time.

(vi) Have a pressure drop increase between the beginning and end of the test of no more than 7.4 in Hg (25kPa).

(vii) Filters of identical quality shall be used when performing correlation tests specified in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section.
