
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart E - Diesel Engines Intended for Use in Underground Coal Mines
###### § 7.86 Test equipment and specifications.
####### Weighing chamber specifications.

(19)(i) The temperature of the chamber (room) in which the particulate filters are conditioned and weighed shall be maintained to within 72 &#xB0;F +/-5 &#xB0;F (22 &#xB0;C +/-3 &#xB0;C) during all filter conditioning and weighing.

(ii) The humidity of the chamber (room) in which the particulate filters are conditioned and weighed shall be maintained to a dewpoint of 49 &#xB0;F +/-5 &#xB0;F (9.5 &#xB0;C +/-3 &#xB0;C) and a relative humidity of 45 percent +/-8 percent during all filter conditioning and weighing.

(iii) The chamber (room) environment shall be free of any ambient contaminants (such as dust) that would settle on the particulate filters during their stabilization. This shall be determined as follows:

(A) At least two unused reference filters or reference filter pairs shall be weighed within four (4) hours of, but preferably at the same time as the sample filter (pair) weighings.

(B) The reference filters are to be the same size and material as the sample filters.

(C) If the average weight of reference filters (reference filter pairs) changes between sample filter weighings by more than +/-5.0 percent (+/-7.5 percent for the filter pair respectively) of the recommended minimum filter loading in paragraphs (c)(18)(iii) or (c)(18)(iv) of this section, then all sample filters shall be discarded and the tests repeated.

(20) The analytical balance used to determine the weights of all filters shall have a precision (standard deviation) of 20 µg and resolution of 10 µg. For filters less than 70 mm diameter, the precision and resolution shall be 2 µg and 1 µg, respectively.

(21) All filters shall be neutralized to eliminate the effects of static electricity prior to weighing.
