
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart F - Diesel Power Packages Intended for Use in Areas of Underground Coal Mines Where Permissible Electric Equipment is Required
###### ยง 7.98 Technical requirements.
####### Intake system.

(r)(1) The intake system shall include a device between the air cleaner and intake flame arrester, operable from the equipment operator's compartment, to shut off the air supply to the engine for emergency purposes. Upon activation, the device must operate immediately and the engine shall stop within 15 seconds.

(2) The intake system shall include a flame arrester that will prevent an explosion within the system from propagating to a surrounding flammable mixture when tested in accordance with the explosion tests in ยง 7.100. The flame arrester shall be located between the air cleaner and the intake manifold and shall be attached so that it can be removed for inspection or cleaning. The flame arrester shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant metal and meet the following requirements:

(i) Two intake flame arrester designs, the spaced-plate type and the crimped ribbon type, will be tested in accordance with the requirements of ยง 7.100. Variations to these designs or other intake flame arrester designs will be evaluated under the provisions of ยง 7.107.

(ii) In flame arresters of the spaced-plate type, the thickness of the plates shall be at least 0.125-inch; spacing between the plates shall not exceed 0.018-inch; and the flame-arresting path formed by the plates shall be at least 1 inch wide. The unsupported length of the plates shall be short enough that permanent deformation resulting from explosion tests shall not exceed 0.002-inch. The plates and flame arrester housing shall be an integral unit which cannot be disassembled.

(iii) In flame arresters of the crimped ribbon type, the dimensions of the core openings shall be such that a plug gauge 0.018-inch in diameter shall not pass through, and the flame-arresting path core thickness shall be at least 1 inch. The core and flame arrester housing shall be an integral unit which cannot be disassembled.

(3) The intake system shall be designed so that improper installation of the flame arrester is impossible.

(4) The intake system shall include an air cleaner service indicator. The air cleaner shall be installed so that only filtered air will enter the flame arrester. The air cleaner shall be sized and the service indicator set in accordance with the engine manufacturer's recommendations. Unless the service indicator is explosion-proof, it shall be located between the air cleaner and flame arrester, and the service indicator setting shall be reduced to account for the additional restriction imposed by the flame arrester.

(5) The intake system shall include a connection between the intake flame arrester and the engine head for temporary attachment of a device to indicate the total vacuum in the system. This opening shall be closed by a plug or other suitable device that is sealed or locked in place except when in use.
