
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart F - Diesel Power Packages Intended for Use in Areas of Underground Coal Mines Where Permissible Electric Equipment is Required
###### § 7.98 Technical requirements.
####### Exhaust system.

(s)(1) The exhaust system shall include a flame arrester that will prevent propagation of flame or discharge of glowing particles to a surrounding flammable mixture. The flame arrester shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant metal.

(i) If a mechanical flame arrester is used, it shall be positioned so that only cooled exhaust gas at a maximum temperature of 302 &#xB0;F (150 &#xB0;C) will be discharged through it.

(ii) If a mechanical flame arrester of the spaced-plate type is used, it must meet the requirements of paragraph (r)(2)(ii) of this section and the test requirements of § 7.100. Variations to the spaced-plate flame arrester design and other mechanical flame arrester designs shall be evaluated under the provisions of § 7.107. The flame arrester shall be designed and attached so that it can be removed for inspection and cleaning.

(2) The exhaust system shall allow a wet exhaust conditioner to be used as the exhaust flame arrester provided that the explosion tests of § 7.100 demonstrate that the wet exhaust conditioner will arrest flame. When used as a flame arrester, the wet exhaust conditioner shall be equipped with a sensor to automatically activate the safety shutdown system at or above the minimum allowable low water level established by § 7.100. Restarting of the engine shall be prevented until the water supply in the wet exhaust conditioner has been replenished above the minimum allowable low water level. All parts of the wet exhaust conditioner and associated components that come in contact with contaminated exhaust conditioner water shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant material. The wet exhaust conditioner shall include a means for verifying that the safety shutdown system operates at the proper water level. A means shall be provided for draining and cleaning the wet exhaust conditioner. The final exhaust gas temperature at discharge from the wet exhaust conditioner shall not exceed 170 &#xB0;F (76 &#xB0;C) under test conditions specified in § 7.102. A sensor shall be provided that activates the safety shutdown system before the exhaust gas temperature at discharge from the wet exhaust conditioner exceeds 185 &#xB0;F (85 &#xB0;C) under test conditions specified in § 7.103(a)(4).

(3) The exhaust system shall be designed so that improper installation of the flame arrester is impossible.

(4) The exhaust system shall provide a means to cool the exhaust gas and prevent discharge of glowing particles.

(i) When a wet exhaust conditioner is used to cool the exhaust gas and prevent the discharge of glowing particles, the temperature of the exhaust gas at the discharge from the exhaust conditioner shall not exceed 170 &#xB0;F (76 &#xB0;C) when tested in accordance with the exhaust gas cooling efficiency test in § 7.102. A sensor shall be provided that activates the safety shutdown system before the exhaust gas temperature at discharge from the wet exhaust conditioner exceeds 185 &#xB0;F (85 &#xB0;C) when tested in accordance with the safety system controls test in § 7.103. All parts of the wet exhaust conditioner and associated components that come in contact with contaminated exhaust conditioner water shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant material.

(ii) When a dry exhaust conditioner is used to cool the exhaust gas, the temperature of the exhaust gas at discharge from the diesel power package shall not exceed 302 &#xB0;F (150 &#xB0;C) when tested in accordance with the exhaust gas cooling efficiency test of § 7.102. A sensor shall be provided that activates the safety shutdown system before the exhaust gas exceeds 302 &#xB0;F (150 &#xB0;C) when tested in accordance with the safety system control test in § 7.103. A means shall be provided to prevent the discharge of glowing particles, and it shall be evaluated under the provisions of § 7.107.

(5) Other means for cooling the exhaust gas and preventing the propagation of flame or discharge of glowing particles shall be evaluated under the provisions of § 7.107.

(6) There shall be a connection in the exhaust system for temporary attachment of a device to indicate the total backpressure in the system and collection of exhaust gas samples. This opening shall be closed by a plug or other suitable device that is sealed or locked in place except when in use.
