
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart F - Diesel Power Packages Intended for Use in Areas of Underground Coal Mines Where Permissible Electric Equipment is Required
###### ยง 7.99 Critical characteristics.

The following critical characteristics shall be inspected or tested on each diesel power package to which an approval marking is affixed:

(a) Finish, width, planarity, and clearances of surfaces that form any part of a flame-arresting path.

(b) Thickness of walls and flanges that are essential in maintaining the explosion-proof integrity of the diesel power package.

(c) Size, spacing, and tightness of fastenings.

(d) The means provided to maintain tightness of fastenings.

(e) Length of thread engagement on fastenings and threaded parts that ensure the explosion-proof integrity of the diesel power package.

(f) Diesel engine approval marking.

(g) Fuel rate setting to ensure that it is appropriate for the intended application, or a warning tag shall be affixed to the fuel system notifying the purchaser of the need to make proper adjustments.

(h) Material and dimensions of gaskets that are essential in maintaining the explosion-proof integrity of the diesel power package.

(i) Dimensions and assembly of flame arresters.

(j) Materials of construction to ensure that the intake system, exhaust system, cooling fans, and belts have been fabricated from the required material.

(k) Proper interconnection of the coolant system components and use of specified components.

(l) Proper interconnection of the safety shutdown system components and use of specified components.

(m) All plugs and covers to ensure that they are tightly installed.

(n) The inspections and tests described in the diesel power package checklist shall be performed and all requirements shall be met.
