
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart F - Diesel Power Packages Intended for Use in Areas of Underground Coal Mines Where Permissible Electric Equipment is Required
###### ยง 7.103 Safety system control test.
####### Acceptable performance.

(b)Tests of the safety system controls shall result in the following:

(1) The coolant system temperature shutdown sensor shall automatically activate the safety shutdown system and stop the engine before the water temperature in the cooling jackets exceeds manufacturer's specifications or 212 &#xB0;F (100 &#xB0;C), whichever is lower.

(2) The temperature sensor in the exhaust gas stream of a system using a dry exhaust conditioner shall automatically activate the safety shutdown system and stop the engine before the cooled exhaust gas exceeds 302 &#xB0;F (150 &#xB0;C).

(3) The temperature sensor in the exhaust gas stream of a system using a wet exhaust conditioner shall automatically activate the safety shutdown system and stop the engine before the cooled exhaust gas exceeds 185 &#xB0;F (85 &#xB0;C).

(4) The low water sensor for systems using a wet exhaust conditioner shall automatically activate the safety shutdown system and stop the engine at or above the minimum allowable low water level and prevent restarting of the engine.

(5) The emergency intake air shutoff device shall operate immediately when activated and stop the engine within 15 seconds.

(6) The total intake air inlet restriction and the total exhaust backpressure shall not exceed the engine manufacturer's specifications.

(7) It shall not be possible to engage the starting mechanism while the engine is running, unless the starting mechanism is constructed of nonsparking material.

(8) The engine oil pressure override shall not override any of the shutdown sensors.
