
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Fire Prevention and Control
###### Flammable and Combustible Liquids and Gases
####### ยง 57.4462 Storage of combustible liquids underground.

The requirements of this standard apply to underground areas only.

(a) Combustible liquids, including oil or grease, shall be stored in non-glass containers or storage tanks. The containers or storage tanks shall be-

(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses and compatible with the type of liquid stored;

(2) Maintained in a manner that prevents leakage;

(3) Located in areas free of combustible materials or in areas where any exposed combustible materials are coated with one inch of shotcrete, one-half inch of gunite, or other noncombustible material with equivalent fire protection characteristics; and

(4) Separated from explosives or blasting agents, shaft stations, and ignition sources including electric equipment that could create sufficient heat or sparks to pose a fire hazard. Separation shall be sufficient to prevent the occurrence or minimize the spread of fire.

(b) Storage tanks shall be vented or otherwise constructed to prevent development of pressure or vacuum as a result of filling, emptying, or atmospheric temperature changes. Vents for storage of Class II or IIIA liquids shall be isolated or separated from ignition sources.

(c) At permanent storage areas for combustible liquids, means shall be provided for confinement or removal of the contents of the largest storage tank in the event of tank rupture.

(d) All piping, valves, and fittings shall be:

(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses;

(2) Compatible with the type of liquid stored; and

(3) Maintained in a manner which prevents leakage.
