
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Fire Prevention and Control
###### Welding/Cutting/Compressed Gases
####### ยง 57.4660 Work in shafts, raises, or winzes and other activities involving hazard areas.

During performance of an activity underground described in Table C-2 or when falling sparks or hot metal from work performed in a shaft, raise, or winze could pose a fire hazard-

(a) A multipurpose dry-chemical fire extinguisher shall be at the worksite to supplement the fire extinguishing equipment required by ยง 57.4600; and

(b) At least one of the following actions shall be taken:

(1) Wet down the area before and after the operation, taking precaution against any hazard of electrical shock.

(2) Isolate any combustible material with noncombustible material.

(3) Shield the activity so that hot metal and sparks cannot cause a fire.

(4) Provide a second person to watch for and extinguish any fire.

(5) Cover or bulkhead the opening immediately below and adjacent to the activity with noncombustible material to prevent sparks or hot metal from falling down the shaft, raise, or winze. This alternative applies only to activities involving a shaft, raise, or winze.

(c) The affected area shall be inspected during the first hour after the operation is completed. Additional inspections shall be made or other fire prevention measures shall be taken if a fire hazard continues to exist.
