
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Fire Prevention and Control
###### Ventilation Control Measures
####### ยง 57.4761 Underground shops.
######## Control doors or bulkheads.

(a)If used as an alternative, control doors or bulkheads shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Each control door or bulkhead shall be constructed to serve as a barrier to fire, the effects of fire, and air leakage at each opening to the shop.

(2) Each control door shall be-

(i) Constructed so that, once closed, it will not reopen as a result of a differential in air pressure;

(ii) Constructed so that it can be opened from either side by one person or be provided with a personnel door that can be opened from either side;

(iii) Clear of obstructions; and

(iv) Provided with a means of remote or automatic closure unless a person specifically designated to close the door in the event of a fire can reach the door within three minutes.

(3) If located 20 feet or more from exposed timber or other combustible material, the control doors or bulkheads shall provide protection at least equivalent to a door constructed of no less than one-quarter inch of plate steel with channel or angle-iron reinforcement to minimize warpage. The framework assembly of the door and the surrounding bulkhead, if any, shall be at least equivalent to the door in fire and air-leakage resistance, and in physical strength.

(4) If located less than 20 feet from exposed timber or other combustibles, the control door or bulkhead shall provide protection at least equivalent to a door constructed of two layers of wood, each a minimum of three-quarters of an inch in thickness. The wood-grain of one layer shall be perpendicular to the wood-grain of the other layer. The wood construction shall be covered on all sides and edges with no less than 24-gauge sheet steel. The framework assembly of the door and the surrounding bulkhead, if any, shall be at least equivalent to the door in fire and air-leakage resistance, and in physical strength. Roll-down steel doors with a fire-resistance rating of 1hours or greater, but without an insulation core, are acceptable provided that an automatic sprinkler or deluge system is installed that provides even coverage of the door on both sides.
