
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart G - Ventilation
###### Underground Only
####### ยง 57.8520 Ventilation plan.

A plan of the mine ventilation system shall be set out by the operator in written form. Revisions of the system shall be noted and updated at least annually. The ventilation plan or revisions thereto shall be submitted to the District Manager for review and comments upon his written request. The plan shall, where applicable, contain the following:

(a) The mine name.

(b) The current mine map or schematic or series of mine maps or schematics of an appropriate scale, not greater than five hundred feet to the inch, showing:

(1) Direction and quantity of principal air flows;

(2) Locations of seals used to isolate abandoned workings;

(3) Locations of areas withdrawn from the ventilation system;

(4) Locations of all main, booster and auxiliary fans not shown in paragraph (d) of this standard.

(5) Locations of air regulators and stoppings and ventilation doors not shown in paragraph (d) of this standard;

(6) Locations of overcasts, undercasts and other airway crossover devices not shown in paragraph (d) of this standard;

(7) Locations of known oil or gas wells;

(8) Locations of known underground mine openings adjacent to the mine;

(9) Locations of permanent underground shops, diesel fuel storage depots, oil fuel storage depots, hoist rooms, compressors, battery charging stations and explosive storage facilities. Permanent facilities are those intended to exist for one year or more; and

(10) Significant changes in the ventilation system projected for one year.

(c) Mine fan data for all active main and booster fans including manufacturer's name, type, size, fan speed, blade setting, approximate pressure at present operating point, and motor brake horsepower rating.

(d) Diagrams, descriptions or sketches showing how ventilation is accomplished in each typical type of working place including the approximate quantity of air provided, and typical size and type of auxiliary fans used.

(e) The number and type of internal combustion engine units used underground, including make and model of unit, type of engine, make and model of engine, brake horsepower rating of engine, and approval number.
