
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart J - Electric Motor Assemblies
###### ยง 7.304 Technical requirements.

(a) Voltage rating of the motor shall not exceed 4160 volts.

(b) The temperature of the external surfaces of the motor assembly shall not exceed 150 &#xB0;C (302 &#xB0;F) when operated at the manufacturers' specified ratings.

(c) Minimum clearances between uninsulated electrical conductor surfaces, or between uninsulated conductor surfaces and grounded metal surfaces, within the enclosure shall meet the requirements of table J-1 of this section.

(d) Parts whose dimensions can change with the motor operation, such as ball and roller bearings and oil seals, shall not be used as flame-arresting paths.

(e) The widths of any grooves, such as grooves for holding oil seals or o-rings, shall be deducted in measuring the widths of flame-arresting paths.

(f) An outer bearing cap shall not be considered as forming any part of a flame-arresting path unless the cap is used as a bearing cartridge.

(g) Requirements for explosion-proof enclosures of motor assemblies.

(1) Enclosures shall be-

(i) Constructed of metal;

(ii) Designed to withstand a minimum internal pressure of 150 pounds per square inch (gauge);

(iii) Free from blowholes when cast; and

(iv) Explosion proof as determined by the tests set out in ยง 7.306 of this part.

(2) Welded joints forming an enclosure shall be-

(i) Continuous and gas-tight; and
