
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart J - Electric Motor Assemblies
###### ยง 7.304 Technical requirements.
####### Lead entrances.

(h)(1) Each cable, which extends through an outside wall of the motor assembly, shall pass through a stuffing-box lead entrance (see figure J-7). All sharp edges shall be removed from stuffing boxes, packing nuts, and other lead entrance (gland) parts, so that the cable jacket is not damaged.

(2) When the packing is properly compressed, the gland nut shall have-

(i) A clearance distance ofinch or more, with no maximum, to travel without interference by parts other than packing; and

(ii) A minimum of three effective threads engaged (see figures J-8, J-9, and J-10).

(3) Packing nuts (see figure J-7) and stuffing boxes shall be secured against loosening (see figure J-11).

(4) Compressed packing material shall be in contact with the cable jacket for a length of not less thaninch.

(5) Requirements for lead entrances in which MSHA accepted rope packing material is specified, are:

(i) Rope packing material shall be acceptable under ยง 18.37(e) of this chapter.

(ii) The width of the space for packing material shall not exceed by more than 50 percent the diameter or width of the uncompressed packing material (see figure J-12).

(iii) The maximum diametrical clearance, using the specified tolerances, between the cable and the through holes in the gland parts adjacent to the packing (stuffing box, packing nut, hose tube, or bushings) shall not exceed 75 percent of the nominal diameter or width of the packing material (see figure J-13).

(6) Requirements for lead entrances in which grommet packing made of compressible material is specified, are:

(i) The grommet packing material shall be accepted by MSHA as flame-resistant material under ยง 18.37(f)(1) of this chapter.

(ii) The diametrical clearance between the cable jacket and the nominal inside diameter of the grommet shall not exceedinch, based on the nominal specified diameter of the cable (see figure J-14).

(iii) The diametrical clearance between the nominal outside diameter of the grommet and the inside wall of the stuffing box shall not exceedinch (see figure J-14).
