
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart J - Electric Motor Assemblies
###### ยง 7.306 Explosion tests.
####### General test procedures.

(b)(1) Motor assemblies being tested shall-

(i) Be equipped with unshielded bearings regardless of the type of bearings specified; and

(ii) Have all parts that do not contribute to the operation or assure the explosion-proof integrity of the enclosure, such as oil seals, grease fittings, hose conduit, cable clamps, and outer bearing caps (which do not house the bearings) removed from the motor assembly.

(2) Each motor assembly shall be placed in the explosion test chamber and tested as follows:

(i) The motor assembly shall be filled with and surrounded by an explosive mixture of the natural gas supply and air. The chamber gas concentrations shall be between 6.0 by volume per centum and the motor assembly natural gas concentration just before ignition of each test. Each externally visible flame-arresting path fit shall be observed for discharge of flames for at least two of the tests, including one with coal dust added.

(ii) A single spark source is used for all testing. Pressure shall be measured at each end of the winding compartment simultaneously during all tests. Quantity and location of test holes shall permit ignition on each end of the winding compartment and recording of pressure on the same and opposite ends as the ignition.

(iii) Motor assemblies incorporating a conduit box shall have the pressure in the conduit box recorded simultaneously with the other measured pressures during all tests. Quantity and location of test holes in the conduit box shall permit ignition and recording of pressure as required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(4)(i) of this section.

(iv) The motor assembly shall be completely purged and recharged with a fresh explosive gas mixture from the chamber or by injection after each test. The chamber shall be completely purged and recharged with a fresh explosive gas mixture as necessary. The oxygen level of the chamber gas mixture shall be no less than 18 percent by volume for testing. In the absence of oxygen monitoring equipment, the maximum number of tests conducted before purging shall be less than or equal to the chamber volume divided by forty times the volume occupied by the motor assembly.
