
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart J - Travelways and Escapeways
###### Escapeways - Underground Only
####### ยง 57.11059 Respirable atmosphere for hoist operators underground.

For the protection of operators of hoists located underground which are part of the mine escape and evacuation plan required under standard 57.11053, the hoist operator shall be provided with a respirable atmosphere completely independent of the mine atmosphere. This independent ventilation system shall convert, without contamination, to an approved and properly maintained 2-hour self-contained breathing apparatus to provide a safe means of escape for the hoist operator after the hoisting duties have been completed as prescribed in the mine escape and evacuation plan for that hoist. The hoist operator's independent ventilation system shall be provided by one of the following methods:

(a) A suitable enclosure equipped with a positive pressure ventilation system which may be operated continuously or be capable of immediate activation from within the enclosure during an emergency evacuation. Air for the enclosure's ventilation system shall be provided in one of the following ways:

(1) Air coursed from the surface through a borehole into the hoist enclosure directly or through a metal pipeline from such borehole; or

(2) Air coursed from the surface through metal duct work into the hoist enclosure, although this duct work shall not be located in timber-supported active workings; or

(3) Air supplied by air compressors located on the surface and coursed through metal pipe into the hoist enclosure.

A back-up system shall be provided for a hoist enclosure ventilation system provided by either of the methods set forth in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section. This back-up system shall consist of compressed air stored in containers connected to the enclosure. This back-up system shall provide and maintain a respirable atmosphere in the enclosure for a period of time equal to at least twice the time necessary to complete the evacuation of all persons designated to use that hoist as prescribed in the mine escape and evacuation plan required under standard 57.11053; or

(b) An approved and properly maintained self-contained breathing apparatus system which shall consist of a mask connected to compressed air stored in containers adjacent to the hoist controls. The self-contained breathing system shall provide a minimum of 24 hours of respirable atmosphere to the hoist operator. In addition, the self-contained breathing system shall be capable of a quick connect with the approved 2-hour self-contained breathing apparatus above.
