
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart J - Electric Motor Assemblies
###### ยง 7.306 Explosion tests.
####### Test procedures.

(c)(1) Eight tests at 9.4 +/-0.4 percent methane by volume within the winding compartment shall be conducted, with the rotor stationary during four tests and rotating at rated speed (rpm) during four tests. The ignition shall be at one end of the winding compartment for two stationary and two rotating tests, and then switched to the opposite end for the remaining four tests. If a nonisolated conduit box is used, then two additional tests, one stationary and one rotating, shall be conducted with ignition in the conduit box at a point furthest away from the opening between the conduit box and the winding compartment.

(2) Four tests at 7.0 +/-0.3 percent methane by volume within the winding compartment shall be conducted with the rotor stationary, 2 ignitions at each end.

(3) Four tests at 9.4 +/-0.4 percent methane by volume plus coal dust shall be conducted. A quantity of coal dust equal to 0.05 ounces per cubic foot of internal free volume of the winding compartment plus the nonisolated conduit box shall be introduced into each end of the winding compartment and nonisolated conduit box to coat the interior surface before conducting the first of the four tests. The coal dust introduced into the conduit box shall be proportional to its volume. The remaining coal dust shall be equally divided between the winding compartment ends. For two tests, one stationary and one rotating, the ignition shall be either in the conduit box or one end of the connected winding compartment, whichever produced the highest pressure in the previous tests. The two remaining tests, one stationary and one rotating, shall be conducted with the ignition in the winding compartment end furthest away from the conduit box.

(4) For motor assemblies incorporating a conduit box which is isolated from the winding compartment by an isolating barrier the following additional tests shall be conducted-

(i) For conduit boxes with an internal free volume greater than 150 cubic inches, two ignition points shall be used, one as close to the geometric center of the conduit box as practical and the other at the furthest point away from the isolating barrier between the conduit box and the winding compartment. Recording of pressure shall be on the same and opposite sides as the ignition point furthest from the isolating barrier between the conduit box and the winding compartment. Conduit boxes with an internal free volume of 150 cubic inches or less shall have one test hole for ignition located as close to the geometric center of the conduit box as practical and one for recording of pressure located on a side of the conduit box.

(ii) The conduit box shall be tested separately. Six tests at 9.4 +/-0.4 percent methane by volume within the conduit box shall be conducted followed by two tests at 7.0 +/-0.3 percent methane by volume. Then two tests at 9.4 +/-0.4 percent methane by volume with a quantity of coal dust equal to 0.05 ounces per cubic foot of internal free volume of the conduit box and meeting the specifications in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall be conducted. For conduit boxes with an internal free volume of more than 150 cubic inches, the number of tests shall be evenly divided between each ignition point.

(iii) The motor assembly shall be tested following removal of the isolating barrier or one sectionalizing terminal (as applicable). Six tests at 9.4 +/-0.4 percent methane by volume in the winding compartment and conduit box shall be conducted using three ignition locations. The ignition shall be at one end of the winding compartment for one stationary and one rotating test; the opposite end for one stationary and one rotating test; and at the ignition point that produced the highest pressure on the previous test in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section in the conduit box for one stationary and one rotating test. Motor assemblies that use multiple sectionalizing terminals shall have one test conducted as each additional terminal is removed. Each of these tests shall use the rotor state and ignition location that produced the highest pressure in the previous tests.

(d) A motor assembly incorporating a conduit box that is isolated from the winding compartment that exhibits pressures exceeding 110 psig, while testing during removal of any or all isolating barriers as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, shall have a warning statement on the approval plate. This statement shall warn that the isolating barrier must be maintained to ensure the explosion-proof integrity of the motor assembly. A statement is not required when the motor assembly has withstood a static pressure of twice the maximum pressure recorded in the explosion tests of paragraph (c)(4) of this section. The static pressure test shall be conducted on the motor assembly with all isolating barriers removed, and in accordance with ยง 7.307 of this part.
