
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart Q - Safety Programs
###### Underground Only
####### ยง 57.18028 Mine emergency and self-rescuer training.
######## Provided, however,

(b) On an annual basis, all persons who go underground shall be instructed in the Mine Safety and Health Administration course contained in Bureau of Mines Instruction Guide 2, "MSA W-65 Self-Rescuer" (March 1972) or Bureau of Mines Instruction Guide 3, "Permissible Drager 810 Respirator for Self-Rescue" (March 1972). The instruction shall be given by MSHA personnel or by persons who are certified by the District Manager of the area in which the mine is located:That if a Mine Safety and Health Administration instructor or a certified instructor is not immediately available such instruction of new employees in self-rescuers may be conducted by qualified company personnel who are not certified, but who have obtained provisional approval from the District Manager. Any person who has not had self-rescuer instruction within 12 months immediately preceding going underground shall be instructed in the use of self-rescuers before going underground.

(c) All instructional material, handouts, visual aids, and other such teaching accessories used by the operator in the courses prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be available for inspection by the Secretary or his authorized representative.

(d) Records of all instruction shall be kept at the mine site or nearest mine office at least 2 years from the date of instruction. Upon completion of such instruction, copies of the record shall be submitted to the District Manager.

(e) The Bureau of Mines instruction guides to which reference is made in items (a) and (b) of this standard are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. The incorporated instruction guides are available and shall be provided upon request made to any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health district office.
