
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Safety Standards for Methane in Metal and Nonmetal Mines
###### Mine Categorization
####### ยง 57.22003 Mine category or subcategory.
######## Category VI

(6)applies to mines in which the presence of methane has not been established and are not included in another category or subcategory.

(b) Category or subcategory placement or change in placement shall include consideration of the following:

(1) The history and geology of the mine or of the geological area in which the mine is located;

(2) The ore body and host rock;

(3) The character, amount, duration, origin, and nature of methane emission and the presence of explosive dust and inert gases; and

(4) Whether or not conditions encountered during primary or access development are transient or permanent.

(c)(1) Gas samples for the purpose of category or subcategory placement or change in placement, and for determining action levels, shall be taken in the mine atmosphere. Gas samples taken to determine the nature and extent of an occurrence under ยง 57.22004 (c) and (d) may be taken at any location, including the source, point of entry and the mine atmosphere.

(2) Tests for methane shall be made with hand-held methanometers, methane monitors, atmospheric monitoring systems, devices used to provide laboratory analysis of samples, or with other equally effective sampling devices. However, only methane samples that have been confirmed by laboratory analysis shall be used for category or subcategory placement or change in placement.

(d) Each mine and mill shall be required to operate in accordance with the safety standards applicable to its particular category or subcategory.
