
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Safety Standards for Methane in Metal and Nonmetal Mines
###### Ventilation
####### ยง 57.22227 Approved testing devices (I-A, I-B, I-C, II-A, II-B, III, IV, V-A, and V-B mines).

(a) Methane monitoring devices and portable, battery-powered, self-contained devices used for measuring methane, other gases, and contaminants in mine air shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18, 21, 22, 23, 27, and 29. Such devices shall be maintained in accordance with manufacturers' instructions, or an equivalent maintenance and calibration procedure.

(b)(1) Flame safety lamps shall not be used to test for methane except as supplementary devices.

(2) Flame safety lamps shall not be used in Subcategory I-C mines.

(c)(1) If electrically powered, remote sensing devices are used, that portion of the instrument located in return air or other places where combustible gases may be present shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18, 22, 23, 27, and 29.

(2) If air samples are delivered to remote analytical devices through sampling tubes, such tubes shall be provided with in-line flame arrestors. Pumping equipment and analytical instruments shall be located in intake air.
