
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Safety Standards for Methane in Metal and Nonmetal Mines
###### Equipment
####### ยง 57.22301 Atmospheric monitoring systems (I-A, II-A, and V-A mines).

(a) An atmospheric monitoring system shall be installed to provide surface readings of methane concentrations in the mine atmosphere from underground locations. Components of the system shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18, 22, 23, and 27; or be determined by MSHA under 30 CFR part 18 to be intrinsically safe or explosion-proof.

(b) Atmospheric monitoring systems shall-

(1) Give warnings on the surface and underground when methane at any sensor reaches 0.5 percent or more, and when power to a sensor is interrupted. Warning devices shall be located so that they can be seen and heard by a person designated by the mine operator; and

(2) Automatically deenergize power in affected areas, except power to monitoring equipment determined by MSHA to be intrinsically safe under 30 CFR part 18, when methane at any sensor reaches-

(i) 1.0 percent in a Subcategory I-A or V-A mine; or

(ii) 0.5 percent while persons are underground and 1.0 percent during blasting in a Subcategory II-A mine. Timing devices are permitted to avoid nuisance tripping for periods not to exceed 30 seconds, except during blasting or the ventilation time following a blast in a Subcategory II-A mine.

(c) Atmospheric monitoring systems shall be checked with a known mixture of methane, and calibrated if necessary at least once every 30 days. Certification of calibration tests shall be made by signature and date. Certifications of tests shall be retained for at least one year and made available to authorized representatives of the Secretary.
