
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Safety Standards for Methane in Metal and Nonmetal Mines
###### Explosives
####### ยง 57.22603 Blasting from the surface (II-A mines).

(a) All development, production, and bench rounds shall be initiated from the surface after all persons are out of the mine. Persons shall not enter the mine until the mine has been ventilated for at least 15 minutes and the ventilating air has passed over the blast area and through at least one atmospheric monitoring sensor.

(b) If the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is less than 0.5 percent, competent persons may enter the mine to test for methane in all blast areas.

(c) If the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is 0.5 percent or more, the mine shall be ventilated and persons shall not enter the mine until the monitoring system indicates that methane in the mine is less than 0.5 percent.

(d) If the monitoring system is inoperable or malfunctions, the mine shall be ventilated for at least 45 minutes and the mine power shall be deenergized before persons enter the mine. Only competent persons necessary to test for methane may enter the mine until the methane in the mine is less than 0.5 percent.

(e) Vehicles used for transportation when examining the mine shall be approved by MSHA under the applicable requirements of 30 CFR parts 18 through 36. Vehicles shall not be used to examine the mine if the monitoring system is inoperable or has malfunctioned.
