
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter K - Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 57 - SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND METAL AND NONMETAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Safety Standards for Methane in Metal and Nonmetal Mines
###### Explosives
####### ยง 57.22606 Explosive materials and blasting units (III mines).

(a) Mine operators shall notify the appropriate MSHA District Manager of all nonapproved explosive materials and blasting units to be used prior to their use. Explosive materials used for blasting shall be approved by MSHA under 30 CFR part 15, or nonapproved explosive materials shall be evaluated and determined by the District Manager to be safe for blasting in a potentially gassy environment. The notice shall also include the millisecond-delay interval between successive shots and between the first and last shot in a round.

(b) Faces shall be examined for proper placement of holes, possible breakthrough, and water. Ammonium nitrate blasting agents shall not be loaded into wet holes.

(c) Multiple-shot blasts shall be initiated with detonators encased in copper-based alloy shells. Aluminum and aluminum alloy-cased detonators, nonelectric detonators, detonating cord, and safety fuses shall not be used. All detonators in a round shall be made by the same manufacturer.

(d) Nonapproved explosives shall be used only as primers with ammonium nitrate-fuel oil blasting agents. Such primers shall be placed at the back or bottom of the hole.

(e) Blast holes shall be stemmed with a noncombustible material in an amount to confine the explosive charge. Breakthrough holes shall be stemmed at both ends.

(f) Mudcaps or other nonapproved unconfined shots shall not be blasted.

(g)(1) Blasting units shall be approved by MSHA under 30 CFR part 25; or

(2) Blasting units used to fire more than 20 detonators shall provide at least 2 amperes through each detonator but not more than an average of 100 amperes through one ohm for 10 milliseconds, and provide the necessary current for at least the first 5 milliseconds with a cutoff not to exceed 10 milliseconds.
