
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart L - Refuge Alternatives
###### ยง 7.505 Structural components.
####### http://www.astm.org.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(6) A test shall be conducted to demonstrate that each structure resists puncture and tearing when tested in accordance with ASTM D2582-07 "Standard Test Method for Puncture-Propagation Tear Resistance of Plastic Film and Thin Sheeting." This publication is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A copy may be obtained from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;A copy may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office; or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(7) A test shall be conducted to demonstrate that each reasonably anticipated repair can be completed within 10 minutes of opening the storage space for repair materials and tools.

(8) A test shall be conducted to demonstrate that no harmful gases or noticeable odors are released from nonmetallic materials before or after the flash fire test. The test shall identify the gases released and determine their concentrations.

(c) If pressurized air is used to deploy the structure or maintain its shape, the structure shall-

(1) Include a pressure regulator or other means to prevent over pressurization of the structure, and

(2) Provide a means to repair and re-pressurize the structure in case of failure of the structure or loss of air pressure.

(d) The refuge alternative structure shall provide a means-

(1) To conduct a preshift examination, without entering the structure, of components critical for deployment; and

(2) To indicate unauthorized entry or tampering.
