
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 71 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Sampling Procedures
###### ยง 71.206 Quarterly sampling; designated work positions.

(a) Each operator shall take one valid representative sample from the DWP during each quarterly period. The quarterly periods are:

(b) When the respirable dust standard is changed in accordance with ยง 71.101, the new applicable standard shall become effective 7 calendar days after the date of the notification of the change by MSHA.

(c) Designated work position samples shall be collected at locations to measure respirable dust generation sources in the active workings. The specific work positions at each mine where DWP samples shall be collected include:

(1) Each highwall drill operator (MSHA occupation code 384);

(2) Bulldozer operators (MSHA occupation code 368); and

(3) Other work positions designated by the District Manager for sampling in accordance with ยง 71.206(m).

(d) Operators with multiple work positions specified in paragraph (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section shall sample the DWP exposed to the greatest respirable dust concentration in each work position performing the same activity or task at the same location at the mine and exposed to the same dust generation source. Each operator shall provide the District Manager with a list identifying the specific work positions where DWP samples will be collected for:

(1) Active mines-by October 1, 2014.

(2) New mines-Within 30 calendar days of mine opening.

(3) DWPs with a change in operational status that increases or reduces the number of active DWPs-within 7 calendar days of the change in status.

(e) Each DWP sample shall be taken on a normal work shift. If a normal work shift is not achieved, the respirable dust sample shall be transmitted to MSHA with a notation by the person certified in sampling on the back of the dust data card stating that the sample was not taken on a normal work shift. When a normal work shift is not achieved, the sample for that shift may be voided by MSHA. However, any sample, regardless of whether a normal work shift was achieved, that exceeds the applicable standard by at least 0.1 mg/mshall be used in the determination of the equivalent concentration for that occupation.

(f) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, DWP samples shall be taken by placing the sampling device as follows:
