
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 71 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Sampling Procedures
###### ยง 71.206 Quarterly sampling; designated work positions.
####### Non-equipment operators:

(2)On the miner assigned to the DWP or at a location that represents the maximum concentration of dust to which the miner is exposed.

(g) Upon notification from MSHA that any valid representative sample taken from a DWP to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section exceeds the applicable standard, the operator shall, within 15 calendar days of notification, sample that DWP each normal work shift until five valid representative samples are taken. The operator shall begin sampling on the first normal work shift following receipt of notification.

(h) When a valid representative sample taken in accordance with this section meets or exceeds the excessive concentration value (ECV) in Table 71-1 that corresponds to the applicable standard and particular sampling device used, the operator shall:

(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with ยง 72.700 of this chapter;

(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable coal mine dust to at or below the applicable standard; and

(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.

(i) Noncompliance with the applicable standard is demonstrated during the sampling period when:

(1) Two or more valid representative samples meet or exceed the ECV in Table 71-1 that corresponds to the applicable standard and the particular sampling device used; or

(2) The average for all valid representative samples meets or exceeds the ECV in Table 71-2 that corresponds to the applicable standard and the particular sampling device used.

(j) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the applicable standard, paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to that DWP until the violation is abated and the citation is terminated in accordance with paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section.

(k) Upon issuance of a citation for violation of the applicable standard, the operator shall take the following actions sequentially:

(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with ยง 72.700 of this chapter;

(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable coal mine dust to at or below the applicable standard; and

(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the representative of miners.

(4) Begin sampling, within 8 calendar days after the date the citation is issued, the environment of the affected DWP on consecutive normal work shifts until five valid representative samples are taken.

(l) A citation for violation of the applicable standard shall be terminated by MSHA when the equivalent concentration of each of the five valid representative samples is at or below the applicable standard.

(m) The District Manager may designate for sampling under this section additional work positions at a surface coal mine and at a surface work area of an underground coal mine where a concentration of respirable dust exceeding 50 percent of the standard in effect at the time the sample is taken, or a concentration of respirable dust exceeding 50 percent of the standard established in accordance with ยง 71.101, has been measured by one or more MSHA valid representative samples.

(n) The District Manager may withdraw from sampling any DWP designated for sampling under paragraph (m) of this section upon finding that the operator is able to maintain continuing compliance with the applicable standard. This finding shall be based on the results of MSHA and operator valid representative samples taken during at least a 12-month period.
