
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 71 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Sampling Procedures
###### ยง 71.209 Status change reports.

(a) If there is a change in operational status that affects the respirable dust sampling requirements of this part, the operator shall report the change in operational status of the mine or DWP to the MSHA District Office or to any other MSHA office designated by the District Manager. Status changes shall be reported in writing or electronically within 3 working days after the status change has occurred.

(b) Each specific operational status is defined as follows:

(1) Underground mine:

(i) Producing-has at least one mechanized mining unit producing material.

(ii) Nonproducing-no material is being produced.

(iii) Abandoned-the work of all miners has been terminated and production activity has ceased.

(2) Surface mine:

(i) Producing-normal activity is occurring and coal is being produced or processed or other material or equipment is being handled or moved.

(ii) Nonproducing-normal activity is not occurring and coal is not being produced or processed, and other material or equipment is not being handled or moved.

(iii) Abandoned-the work of all miners has been terminated and all activity has ceased.

(3) DWP:

(i) Producing-normal activity is occurring.

(ii) Nonproducing-normal activity is not occurring.

(iii) Abandoned-the dust generating source has been withdrawn and activity has ceased.
