
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 71 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Respirable Dust Control Plans
###### ยง 71.300 Respirable dust control plan; filing requirements.

(a) Within 15 calendar days after the termination date of a citation for violation of the applicable standard, the operator shall submit to the District Manager for approval a written respirable dust control plan applicable to the DWP identified in the citation. The respirable dust control plan and revisions thereof shall be suitable to the conditions and the mining system of the coal mine and shall be adequate to continuously maintain respirable dust to at or below the applicable standard at the DWP identified in the citation.

(1) The mine operator shall notify the representative of miners at least 5 days prior to submission of a respirable dust control plan and any revision to a dust control plan. If requested, the mine operator shall provide a copy to the representative of miners at the time of notification;

(2) A copy of the proposed respirable dust control plan, and a copy of any proposed revision, submitted for approval shall be made available for inspection by the representative of miners; and

(3) A copy of the proposed respirable dust control plan, and a copy of any proposed revision, submitted for approval shall be posted on the mine bulletin board at the time of submittal. The proposed plan or proposed revision shall remain posted until it is approved, withdrawn, or denied.

(4) Following receipt of the proposed plan or proposed revision, the representative of miners may submit timely comments to the District Manager, in writing, for consideration during the review process. Upon request, a copy of these comments shall be provided to the operator by the District Manager.

(b) Each respirable dust control plan shall include at least the following:

(1) The mine identification number and DWP number assigned by MSHA, the operator's name, mine name, mine address, and mine telephone number and the name, address, and telephone number of the principal officer in charge of health and safety at the mine;

(2) The specific DWP at the mine to which the plan applies;

(3) A detailed description of the specific respirable dust control measures used to abate the violation of the respirable dust standard; and

(4) A detailed description of how each of the respirable dust control measures described in response to paragraph (b)(3) of this section will continue to be used by the operator, including at least the specific time, place and manner the control measures will be used.
