
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 74 - COAL MINE DUST SAMPLING DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Requirements for Continuous Personal Dust Monitors
###### ยง 74.7 Design and construction requirements.
####### Ergonomic design testing.

(b)Prior to submitting an application under ยง 74.13, the applicant shall develop a testing protocol and test the CPDM to assure that the device can be worn safely, without discomfort, and without impairing a coal miner in the performance of duties throughout a full work shift. The results of the test shall also demonstrate that the device will operate consistently throughout a full work shift under representative working conditions of underground coal miners, including representative types and durations of physical activity, tasks, and changes in body orientation.

(1) The testing protocol shall specify that the tests be conducted in one or more active mines under routine operating conditions during production shifts.

(2) The applicant shall submit the testing protocol, in writing, to NIOSH for approval prior to conducting such testing.

(3) The applicant shall include the testing protocol and written test results in the application submitted to NIOSH as specified in ยง 74.13.

(4) NIOSH will advise and assist the applicant, as necessary, to develop a testing protocol and arrange for the conduct of testing specified in this paragraph.

(5) NIOSH may further inspect the device or conduct such tests as it deems necessary to assure the safety, comfort, practicality, and operability of the device when it is worn by coal miners in the performance of their duties.

(6) NIOSH may waive the requirement for the applicant to conduct testing under paragraph (b) of this section if NIOSH determines that such testing is unnecessary to assure the safety, comfort, practicality, and operability of the device when it is worn by coal miners in the performance of their duties.
