
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart B - Qualified and Certified Persons
###### ยง 75.100 Certified person.

(a) The provisions of Subpart D-Ventilation of this part 75 require that certain examinations and tests be made by a certified person. A certified person within the meaning of those provisions is a person who has been certified as a mine foreman (mine manager), an assistant mine foreman (section foreman), or a preshift examiner (mine examiner). A person who has been so certified is also a qualified person within the meaning of those provisions of subpart D of this part which require that certain tests be made by a qualified person and within the meaning of ยง 75.1106.

(b) A person who is certified as a mine foreman, an assistant mine foreman, or a preshift examiner by the State in which the coal mine is located is, to the extent of the State's certification, a certified person within the meaning of the provisions of subpart D of this part and ยง 75.1106 referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c)(1) The Secretary may certify persons in the categories of mine foreman, assistant mine foreman, and preshift examiner whenever the State in which persons are presently employed in these categories does not provide for such certification. A person's initial certification by MSHA is valid for as long as the person continues to satisfy the requirements necessary to obtain the certification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor. The mine operator or independent contractor shall make an application which satisfactorily shows that each such person has had at least 2 years underground experience in a coal mine, and has held the position of mine foreman, assistant mine foreman, or preshift examiner for a period of 6 months immediately preceding the filing of the application, and is qualified to test for methane and for oxygen deficiency. Applications for Secretarial certification should be submitted in writing to the Health and Safety Activity, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Certification and Qualification Center, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado 80225.

(2) A person certified by the Secretary under this paragraph will be a certified person, within the meaning of the provisions for subpart D of this part and ยง 75.1106 referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as long as that person continues to satisfy the requirements for qualification or certification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor.
