
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart B - Qualified and Certified Persons
###### § 75.153 Electrical work; qualified person.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, an individual is a qualified person within the meaning of §§ 75.511 and 75.512 to perform electrical work (other than work on energized surface high-voltage lines) if:

(1) He has been qualified as a coal mine electrician by a State that has a coal mine electrical qualification program approved by the Secretary; or,

(2) He has at least 1 year of experience in performing electrical work underground in a coal mine, in the surface work areas of an underground coal mine, in a surface coal mine, in a noncoal mine, in the mine equipment manufacturing industry, or in any other industry using or manufacturing similar equipment, and has satisfactorily completed a coal mine electrical training program approved by the Secretary; or,

(3) He has at least 1 year of experience, prior to the date of the application required by paragraph (c) of this section, in performing electrical work underground in a coal mine, in the surface work areas of an underground coal mine, in a surface coal mine, in a noncoal mine, in the mine equipment manufacturing industry, or in any other industry using or manufacturing similar equipment, and he attains a satisfactory grade on each of the series of five written tests approved by the Secretary and prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The series of five written tests approved by the Secretary shall include the following categories:

(1) Direct current theory and application;

(2) Alternating current theory and application;

(3) Electric equipment and circuits;

(4) Permissibility of electric equipment; and,

(5) Requirements of subparts F through K of this part 75.

(c) In order to take the series of five written tests approved by the Secretary, an individual shall apply to the District Manager and shall certify that he meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The tests will be administered in the Coal Mine Safety and Health Districts at regular intervals, or as demand requires.

(d) A score of at least 80 percent of each of the five written tests will be deemed to be a satisfactory grade. Recognition shall be given to practical experience in that 1 percentage point shall be added to an individual's score in each test for each additional year of experience beyond the 1 year minimum requirement specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; however, in no case shall an individual be given more than 5 percentage points for such practical experience.

(e) An individual may, within 30 days from the date on which he received notification from the Administration of his test scores, repeat those on which he received an unsatisfactory score. If further retesting is necessary after this initial repetition, a minimum of 30 days from the date of receipt of notification of the initial retest scores shall elapse prior to such further retesting.

(f) An individual who has, prior to November 1, 1972, been qualified to perform electrical work specified in §§ 75.511 and 75.512 (other than work on energized surface high-voltage lines) shall continue to be qualified until June 30, 1973. To remain qualified after June 30, 1973, such individual shall meet the requirements of either paragraph (a) (1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(g) An individual qualified in accordance with this section shall, in order to retain qualification, certify annually to the District Manager, that he has satisfactorily completed a coal mine electrical retraining program approved by the Secretary.
