
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Roof Support
###### ยง 75.204 Roof bolting.

(a) For roof bolts and accessories addressed in ASTM F432-95, "Standard Specification for Roof and Rock Bolts and Accessories," the mine operator shall-

(1) Obtain a manufacturer's certification that the material was manufactured and tested in accordance with the specifications of ASTM F432-95; and

(2) Make this certification available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and to the representative of miners.

(b) Roof bolts and accessories not addressed in ASTM F432-95 may be used, provided that the use of such materials is approved by the District Manager based on-

(1) Demonstrations which show that the materials have successfully supported the roof in an area of a coal mine with similar strata, opening dimensions and roof stresses; or

(2) Tests which show the materials to be effective for supporting the roof in an area of the affected mine which has similar strata, opening dimensions and roof stresses as the area where the roof bolts are to be used. During the test process, access to the test area shall be limited to persons necessary to conduct the test.

(c)(1) A bearing plate shall be firmly installed with each roof bolt.

(2) Bearing plates used directly against the mine roof shall be at least 6 inches square or the equivalent, except that where the mine roof is firm and not susceptible to sloughing, bearing plates 5 inches square or the equivalent may be used.

(3) Bearing plates used with wood or metal materials shall be at least 4 inches square or the equivalent.

(4) Wooden materials that are used between a bearing plate and the mine roof in areas which will exist for three years or more shall be treated to minimize deterioration.

(d) When washers are used with roof bolts, the washers shall conform to the shape of the roof bolt head and bearing plate.

(e)(1) The diameter of finishing bits shall be within a tolerance of plus or minus 0.030 inch of the manufacturer's recommended hole diameter for the anchor used.

(2) When separate finishing bits are used, they shall be distinguishable from other bits.
