
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Roof Support
###### ยง 75.209 Automated Temporary Roof Support (ATRS) systems.

(a) Except in anthracite mines and as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, an ATRS system shall be used with roof bolting machines and continuous-mining machines with integral roof bolters operated in a working section. The requirements of this paragraph shall be met according to the following schedule:

(1) All new machines ordered after March 28, 1988.

(2) All existing machines operated in mining heights of 36 inches or more after March 28, 1989; and

(3) All existing machines operated in mining heights of 30 inches or more but less than 36 inches after March 28, 1990.

(b) After March 28, 1990 the use of ATRS systems with existing roof bolting machines and continuous-mining machines with integral roof bolters operated in a working section where the mining height is less than 30 inches shall be addressed in the roof control plan.

(c) Alternative means of temporary support shall be used, as specified in the roof control plan, when-

(1) Mining conditions or circumstances prevent the use of an ATRS system; or

(2) Temporary supports are installed in conjunction with an ATRS system.

(d) Persons shall work or travel between the support device of the ATRS system and another support, and the distance between the support device of the ATRS system and support to the left, right or beyond the ATRS system, shall not exceed 5 feet.

(e) Each ATRS system shall meet each of the following:

(1) The ATRS system shall elastically support a deadweight load measured in pounds of at least 450 times each square foot of roof intended to be supported, but in no case less than 11,250 pounds.

(2) The controls that position and set the ATRS system shall be-

(i) Operable from under permanently supported roof; or

(ii) Located in a compartment, which includes a deck, that provides the equipment operator with overhead and lateral protection, and has the structural capacity to elastically support a deadweight load of at least 18,000 pounds.

(3) All jacks affecting the capacity of the ATRS system and compartment shall have check valves or equivalent devices that will prevent rapid collapse in the event of a system failure.

(4) Except for the main tram controls, tram controls for positioning the equipment to set the ATRS system shall limit the speed of the equipment to a maximum of 80 feet-per-minute.

(f) The support capacity of each ATRS system and the structural capacity of each compartment shall be certified by a registered engineer as meeting the applicable requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section. The certifications shall be made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and representative of the miners.
