
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Roof Support
###### ยง 75.211 Roof testing and scaling.

(a) A visual examination of the roof, face and ribs shall be made immediately before any work is started in an area and thereafter as conditions warrant.

(b) Where the mining height permits and the visual examination does not disclose a hazardous condition, sound and vibration roof tests, or other equivalent tests, shall be made where supports are to be installed. When sound and vibration tests are made, they shall be conducted-

(1) After the ATRS system is set against the roof and before other support is installed; or

(2) Prior to manually installing a roof support. This test shall begin under supported roof and progress no further than the location where the next support is to be installed.

(c) When a hazardous roof, face, or rib condition is detected, the condition shall be corrected before there is any other work or travel in the affected area. If the affected area is left unattended, each entrance to the area shall be posted with a readily visible warning, or a physical barrier shall be installed to impede travel into the area.

(d) A bar for taking down loose material shall be available in the working place or on all face equipment except haulage equipment. Bars provided for taking down loose material shall be of a length and design that will allow the removal of loose material from a position that will not expose the person performing this work to injury from falling material.
