
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 14 - REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPROVAL OF FLAME-RESISTANT CONVEYOR BELTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 14.8 Quality assurance.

Applicants granted an approval or an extension of approval under this Part must:

(a) In order to assure that the finished conveyor belt will meet the flame-resistance test-

(1) Flame test a sample of each batch, lot, or slab of conveyor belts; or

(2) Flame test or inspect a sample of each batch or lot of the materials that contribute to the flame-resistance characteristic.

(b) Calibrate instruments used for the inspection and testing in paragraph (a) of this section according to the instrument manufacturer's specifications. Instruments must be calibrated using standards set by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce or other nationally or internationally recognized standards. The instruments used must be accurate to at least one significant figure beyond the desired accuracy.

(c) Control production so that the conveyor belt is manufactured in accordance with the approval document. If a third party is assembling or manufacturing all or part of an approved belt, the approval holder shall assure that the product is manufactured as approved.

(d) Immediately notify the MSHA Approval and Certification Center of any information that a conveyor belt has been distributed that does not meet the specifications of the approval. This notification must include a description of the nature and extent of the problem, the locations where the conveyor belt has been distributed, and the approval holder's plans for corrective action.
