
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### § 75.325 Air quantity.

(a)(1) In bituminous and lignite mines the quantity of air shall be at least 3,000 cubic feet per minute reaching each working face where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting, or loaded. When a greater quantity is necessary to dilute, render harmless, and carry away flammable, explosive, noxious, and harmful gases, dusts, smoke, and fumes, this quantity shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. A minimum air quantity may be required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan for other working places or working faces.

(2) The quantity of air reaching the working face shall be determined at or near the face end of the line curtain, ventilation tubing, or other ventilation control device. If the curtain, tubing, or device extends beyond the last row of permanent roof supports, the quantity of air reaching the working face shall be determined behind the line curtain or in the ventilation tubing at or near the last row of permanent supports. When machine-mounted dust collectors are used in conjunction with blowing face ventilation systems, the quantity of air reaching the working face shall be determined with the dust collector turned off.

(3) If machine mounted dust collectors or diffuser fans are used, the approved ventilation plan shall specify the operating volume of the dust collector or diffuser fan.

(b) In bituminous and lignite mines, the quantity of air reaching the last open crosscut of each set of entries or rooms on each working section and the quantity of air reaching the intake end of a pillar line shall be at least 9,000 cubic feet per minute unless a greater quantity is required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan. This minimum also applies to sections which are not operating but are capable of producing coal by simply energizing the equipment on the section.

(c) In longwall and shortwall mining systems-

(1) The quantity of air shall be at least 30,000 cubic feet per minute reaching the working face of each longwall, unless the operator demonstrates that a lesser air quantity will maintain continual compliance with applicable methane and respirable dust standards. This lesser quantity shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. A quantity greater than 30,000 cubic feet per minute may be required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan.

(2) The velocity of air that will be provided to control methane and respirable dust in accordance with applicable standards on each longwall or shortwall and the locations where these velocities will be provided shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. The locations specified shall be at least 50 feet but no more than 100 feet from the headgate and tailgate, respectively.

(d) Ventilation shall be maintained during installation and removal of mechanized mining equipment. The approved ventilation plan shall specify the minimum quantity of air, the locations where this quantity will be provided and the ventilation controls required.

(e) In anthracite mines, the quantity of air shall be as follows:

(1) At least 1,500 cubic feet per minute reaching each working face where coal is being mined, unless a greater quantity is required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan.

(2) At least 5,000 cubic feet per minute passing through the last open crosscut in each set of entries or rooms and at the intake end of any pillar line, unless a greater quantity is required to be specified in the approved ventilation plan.

(3) When robbing areas where air currents cannot be controlled and air measurements cannot be obtained, the air shall have perceptible movement.

(f) The minimum ventilating air quantity for an individual unit of diesel-powered equipment being operated shall be at least that specified on the approval plate for that equipment. Such air quantity shall be maintained-

(1) In any working place where the equipment is being operated;

(2) At the section loading point during any shift the equipment is being operated on the working section;

(3) In any entry where the equipment is being operated outby the section loading point in areas of the mine developed on or after April 25, 1997;

(4) In any air course with single or multiple entries where the equipment is being operated outby the section loading point in areas of the mine developed prior to April 25, 1997; and

(5) At any other location required by the district manager and specified in the approved ventilation plan.

(g) The minimum ventilating air quantity where multiple units of diesel-powered equipment are operated on working sections and in areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed must be at least the sum of that specified on the approval plates of all the diesel-powered equipment on the working section or in the area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed. The minimum ventilating air quantity shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan. For working sections such air quantity must be maintained-

(1) In the last open crosscut of each set of entries or rooms in each working section;

(2) In the intake, reaching the working face of each longwall; and

(3) At the intake end of any pillar line.

(h) The following equipment may be excluded from the calculations of ventilating air quantity under paragraph (g) if such equipment exclusion is approved by the district manager and specified in the ventilation plan:

(1) Self-propelled equipment meeting the requirements of § 75.1908(b);

(2) Equipment that discharges its exhaust into intake air that is coursed directly to a return air course;

(3) Equipment that discharges its exhaust directly into a return air course; and

(4) Other equipment having duty cycles such that the emissions would not significantly affect the exposure of miners.

(i) A ventilating air quantity that is less than what is required by paragraph (g) of this section may be approved by the district manager in the ventilation plan based upon the results of sampling that demonstrate that the lesser air quantity will maintain continuous compliance with applicable TLV &#xAE;'s.

(j) If during sampling required by § 70.1900(c) of this subchapter the ventilating air is found to contain concentrations of CO or NOin excess of the action level specified by § 70.1900(c), higher action levels may be approved by the district manager based on the results of sampling that demonstrate that a higher action level will maintain continuous compliance with applicable TLV &#xAE;'s. Action levels other than those specified in § 70.1900(c) shall be specified in the approved ventilation plan.

(k) As of November 25, 1997 the ventilating air quantity required where diesel-powered equipment is operated shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (f) through (j) of this section. Mine operators utilizing diesel-powered equipment in underground coal mines shall submit to the appropriate MSHA district manager a revised ventilation plan or appropriate amendments to the existing plan, in accordance with § 75.371, which implement the requirements of paragraphs (f) through (j) of this section.
