
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### ยง 75.333 Ventilation controls.

(a) For purposes of this section, "doors" include any door frames.

(b) Permanent stoppings or other permanent ventilation control devices constructed after November 15, 1992, shall be built and maintained-

(1) Between intake and return air courses, except temporary controls may be used in rooms that are 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the room was developed including where continuous face haulage systems are used in such rooms. Unless otherwise approved in the ventilation plan, these stoppings or controls shall be maintained to and including the third connecting crosscut outby the working face;

(2) To separate belt conveyor haulageways from return air courses, except where belt entries in areas of mines developed before March 30, 1970, are used as return air courses;

(3) To separate belt conveyor haulageways from intake air courses when the air in the intake air courses is used to provide air to active working places. Temporary ventilation controls may be used in rooms that are 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the rooms were developed including where continuous face haulage systems are used in such rooms. When continuous face haulage systems are used, permanent stoppings or other permanent ventilation control devices shall be built and maintained to the outby most point of travel of the dolly or 600 feet from the point of deepest penetration in the conveyor belt entry, whichever distance is closer to the point of deepest penetration, to separate the continuous haulage entry from the intake entries;

(4) To separate the primary escapeway from belt and trolley haulage entries, as required by ยง 75.380(g). For the purposes of ยง 75.380(g), the loading point for a continuous haulage system shall be the outby most point of travel of the dolly or 600 feet from the point of deepest penetration, whichever distance is less; and

(5) In return air courses to direct air into adjacent worked-out areas.

(c) Personnel doors shall be constructed of noncombustible material and shall be of sufficient strength to serve their intended purpose of maintaining separation and permitting travel between air courses, and shall be installed as follows in permanent stoppings constructed after November 15, 1992:

(1) The distance between personnel doors shall be no more than 300 feet in seam heights below 48 inches and 600 feet in seam heights 48 inches or higher.

(2) The location of all personnel doors in stoppings along escapeways shall be clearly marked so that the doors may be easily identified by anyone traveling in the escapeway and in the entries on either side of the doors.

(3) When not in use, personnel doors shall be closed.

(4) An airlock shall be established where the air pressure differential between air courses creates a static force exceeding 125 pounds on closed personnel doors along escapeways.

(d) Doors, other than personnel doors, constructed after November 15, 1992, that are used in lieu of permanent stoppings or to control ventilation within an air course shall be:
