
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### ยง 75.333 Ventilation controls.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.,http://www.astm.org.

(e)(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, all overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators, installed after June 10, 1996, shall be constructed in a traditionally accepted method and of materials that have been demonstrated to perform adequately or in a method and of materials that have been tested and shown to have a minimum strength equal to or greater than the traditionally accepted in-mine controls. Tests may be performed under ASTM E72-80, "Standard Methods of Conducting Strength Tests of Panels for Building Construction" (Section 12-Transverse Load-Specimen Vertical, load, only), or the operator may conduct comparative in-mine tests. In-mine tests shall be designed to demonstrate the comparative strength of the proposed construction and a traditionally accepted in-mine control. The publication ASTM E72-80, "Standard Methods of Conducting Strength Tests of Panels for Building Construction," is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.

(ii) All overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators, installed after November 15, 1992, shall be constructed of noncombustible material. Materials that are suitable for the construction of overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators include concrete, concrete block, brick, cinder block, tile, or steel. No ventilation controls installed after November 15, 1992, shall be constructed of aluminum.

(2) In anthracite mines, permanent stoppings may be constructed of overlapping layers of hardwood mine boards, if the stoppings are a minimum 2 inches thick.
