
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### ยง 75.335 Seal strengths, design applications, and installation.
####### Seal design applications.

(b)Seal design applications from seal manufacturers or mine operators shall be in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section and submitted for approval to MSHA's Office of Technical Support, Pittsburgh Safety and Health Technology Center, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Building 151, Pittsburgh, PA 15236-3611.

(1) An engineering design application shall-

(i) Address gas sampling pipes, water drainage systems, methods to reduce air leakage, pressure-time curve, fire resistance characteristics, flame spread index, entry size, engineering design and analysis, elasticity of design, material properties, construction specifications, quality control, design references, and other information related to seal construction;

(ii) Be certified by a professional engineer that the design of the seal is in accordance with current, prudent engineering practices and is applicable to conditions in an underground coal mine; and

(iii) Include a summary of the installation procedures related to seal construction; or

(2) Each application based on full-scale explosion tests or equivalent means of physical testing shall address the following requirements to ensure that a seal can reliably meet the seal strength requirements:

(i) Certification by a professional engineer that the testing was done in accordance with current, prudent engineering practices for construction in a coal mine;

(ii) Technical information related to the methods and materials;

(iii) Supporting documentation;

(iv) An engineering analysis to address differences between the seal support during test conditions and the range of conditions in a coal mine; and

(v) A summary of the installation procedures related to seal construction.

(3) MSHA will notify the applicant if additional information or testing is required. The applicant shall provide this information, arrange any additional or repeat tests, and provide prior notification to MSHA of the location, date, and time of such test(s).

(4) MSHA will notify the applicant, in writing, whether the design is approved or denied. If the design is denied, MSHA will specify, in writing, the deficiencies of the application, or necessary revisions.

(5) Once the seal design is approved, the approval holder shall promptly notify MSHA, in writing, of all deficiencies of which they become aware.
