
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### ยง 75.335 Seal strengths, design applications, and installation.
####### Seal installation approval.

(c)The installation of the approved seal design shall be subject to approval in the ventilation plan. The mine operator shall-

(1) Retain the seal design approval and installation information for as long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it was built.

(2) Designate a professional engineer to conduct or have oversight of seal installation and certify that the provisions in the approved seal design specified in this section have been addressed and are applicable to conditions at the mine. A copy of the certification shall be submitted to the District Manager with the information provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and a copy of the certification shall be retained for as long as the seal is needed to serve the purpose for which it was built.

(3) Provide the following information for approval in the ventilation plan-

(i) The MSHA Technical Support Approval Number;

(ii) A summary of the installation procedures;

(iii) The mine map of the area to be sealed and proposed seal locations that include the deepest points of penetration prior to sealing. The mine map shall be certified by a professional engineer or a professional land surveyor.

(iv) Specific mine site information, including-

(A) Type of seal;

(B) Safety precautions taken prior to seal achieving design strength;

(C) Methods to address site-specific conditions that may affect the strength and applicability of the seal including set-back distances;

(D) Site preparation;

(E) Sequence of seal installations;

(F) Projected date of completion of each set of seals;

(G) Supplemental roof support inby and outby each seal;

(H) Water flow estimation and dimensions of the water drainage system through the seals;

(I) Methods to ventilate the outby face of seals once completed;

(J) Methods and materials used to maintain each type of seal;

(K) Methods to address shafts and boreholes in the sealed area;

(L) Assessment of potential for overpressures greater than 120 psi in sealed area;

(M) Additional sampling locations; and

(N) Additional information required by the District Manager.
