
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 14 - REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPROVAL OF FLAME-RESISTANT CONVEYOR BELTS
##### Subpart B - Technical Requirements
###### ยง 14.21 Laboratory-scale flame test apparatus.

The principal parts of the apparatus used to test for flame resistance of conveyor belts are as follows-

(a) A horizontal test chamber 66 inches (167.6 cm) long by 18 inches (45.7 cm) square (inside dimensions) constructed from 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick Marinite I &#xAE;, or equivalent insulating material.

(b) A 16-gauge (0.16 cm) stainless steel duct section which tapers over a length of at least 24 inches (61 cm) from a 20 inch (51 cm) square cross-sectional area at the test chamber connection to a 12 inch (30.5 cm) diameter exhaust duct, or equivalent. The interior surface of the tapered duct section must be lined withinch (1.27 cm) thick ceramic blanket insulation, or equivalent insulating material. The tapered duct must be tightly connected to the test chamber.

(c) A U-shaped gas-fueled impinged jet burner ignition source, measuring 12 inches (30.5 cm) long and 4 inches (10.2 cm) wide, with two parallel rows of 6 jets each. Each jet is spaced alternately along the U-shaped burner tube. The 2 rows of jets are slanted so that they point toward each other and the flame from each jet impinges upon each other in pairs. The burner fuel must be at least 98 percent methane (technical grade) or natural gas containing at least 96 percent combustible gases, which includes not less than 93 percent methane.

(d) A removable steel rack, consisting of 2 parallel rails and supports that form a 7 +/-inches (17.8 +/-0.3 cm) wide by 60 +/-inches (152.4 +/-0.3 cm) long assembly to hold a belt sample.

(1) The 2 parallel rails, with a 5 +/-inches (12.7 +/-0.3 cm) space between them, comprise the top of the rack. The rails and supports must be constructed of slotted angle iron with holes along the top surface.

(2) The top surface of the rack must be 8 +/-inches (20.3 +/-0.3 cm) from the inside roof of the test chamber.
