
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### § 75.364 Weekly examination.
####### Hazardous conditions and violations of mandatory health or safety standards.

(b)At least every 7 days, an examination for hazardous conditions and violations of the mandatory health or safety standards referenced in paragraph (b)(8) of this section shall be made by a certified person designated by the operator at the following locations:

(1) In at least one entry of each intake air course, in its entirety, so that the entire air course is traveled.

(2) In at least one entry of each return air course, in its entirety, so that the entire air course is traveled.

(3) In each longwall or shortwall travelway in its entirety, so that the entire travelway is traveled.

(4) At each seal along return and bleeder air courses and at each seal along intake air courses not examined under § 75.360(b)(5).

(5) In each escapeway so that the entire escapeway is traveled.

(6) On each working section not examined under § 75.360(b)(3) during the previous 7 days.

(7) At each water pump not examined during a preshift examination conducted during the previous 7 days.

(8) Weekly examinations shall include examinations to identify violations of the standards listed below:

(i) §§ 75.202(a) and 75.220(a)(1)-roof control;

(ii) §§ 75.333(h) and 75.370(a)(1)-ventilation, methane;

(iii) §§ 75.400 and 75.403-accumulations of combustible materials and application of rock dust; and

(iv) § 75.1403-maintenance of off track haulage roadways, and track haulage, track switches, and other components for haulage;

(v) § 75.1722(a)-guarding moving machine parts; and

(vi) § 75.1731(a)-maintenance of belt conveyor components.
