
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### § 75.371 Mine ventilation plan; contents.

The mine ventilation plan shall contain the information described below and any additional provisions required by the district manager:

(a) The mine name, company name, mine identification number, and the name of the individual submitting the plan information.

(b) Planned main mine fan stoppages, other than those scheduled for testing, maintenance or adjustment, including procedures to be followed during these stoppages and subsequent restarts (see § 75.311(a)) and the type of device to be used for monitoring main mine fan pressure, if other than a pressure recording device (see 75.310(a)(4)).

(c) Methods of protecting main mine fans and associated components from the forces of an underground explosion if a 15-foot offset from the nearest side of the mine opening is not provided (see § 75.310(a)(6)); and the methods of protecting main mine fans and intake air openings if combustible material will be within 100 feet of the area surrounding the fan or these openings (see § 75.311(f)).

(d) Persons that will be permitted to enter the mine, the work these persons will do while in the mine, and electric power circuits that will be energized when a back-up fan system is used that does not provide the ventilating quantity provided by the main mine fan (see § 75.311(c)).

(e) The locations and operating conditions of booster fans installed in anthracite mines (see § 75.302).

(f) Section and face ventilation systems used and the minimum quantity of air that will be delivered to the working section for each mechanized mining unit, including drawings illustrating how each system is used, and a description of each different dust suppression system used on equipment, identified by make and model, on each working section, including:

(1) The number, types, location, orientation, operating pressure, and flow rate of operating water sprays;

(2) The maximum distance that ventilation control devices will be installed from each working face when mining or installing roof bolts in entries and crosscuts;

(3) Procedures for maintaining the roof bolting machine dust collection system in approved condition; and

(4) Recommended best work practices for equipment operators to minimize dust exposure.

(g) Locations where the air quantities must be greater than 3,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(a)(1)).

(h) In anthracite mines, locations where the air quantities must be greater than 1,500 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(e)(1)).

(i) Working places and working faces other than those where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting or loaded, where a minimum air quantity will be maintained, and the air quantity at those locations (see § 75.325(a)(1)).

(j) The operating volume of machine mounted dust collectors or diffuser fans, if used (see § 75.325(a)(3)), including the type and size of dust collector screen used, and a description of the procedures to maintain dust collectors used on equipment.

(k) The minimum mean entry air velocity in exhausting face ventilation systems where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting, or loaded, if the velocity will be less than 60 feet per minute. Other working places where coal is not being cut, mined, drilled for blasting or loaded, where at least 60 feet per minute or some other minimum mean entry air velocity will be maintained (see § 75.326).

(l) The maximum distance if greater than 10 feet from each working face at which face ventilation control devices will be installed (see § 75.330(b)(2)). The working places other than those where coal is being cut, mined, drilled for blasting or loaded, where face ventilation control devices will be used (see § 75.330(b)(1)(ii).

(m) The volume of air required in the last open crosscut or the quantity of air reaching the pillar line if greater than 9,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(b)).

(n) In anthracite mines, the volume of air required in the last open crosscut or the quantity of air reaching the pillar line if greater than 5,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(e)(2)).

(o) Locations where separations of intake and return air courses will be built and maintained to other than the third connecting crosscut outby each working face (see § 75.333(b)(1)).

(p) The volume of air required at the intake to the longwall sections, if different than 30,000 cubic feet per minute (see § 75.325(c)).

(q) The velocities of air on a longwall or shortwall face, and the locations where the velocities must be measured (see § 75.325(c)(2)).

(r) The minimum quantity of air that will be provided during the installation and removal of mechanized mining equipment, the location where this quantity will be provided, and the ventilation controls that will be used (see § 75.325(d), (g), and (i)).

(s) The locations and frequency of the methane tests if required more often by § 75.362(d)(1)(iii) (see § 75.362 (d)(1)(iii).

(t) The locations where samples for "designated areas" will be collected, including the specific location of each sampling device, and the respirable dust control measures used at the dust generating sources for these locations (see §§ 70.207 and 70.209 of this chapter).

(u) The methane and dust control systems at underground dumps, crushers, transfer points, and haulageways.

(v) Areas in trolley haulage entries where the air velocity will be greater than 250 feet per minute and the velocity in these areas (see § 75.327(b)).

(w) Locations where entries will be advanced less than 20 feet from the inby rib without a crosscut being provided where a line brattice will be required. (see § 75.333(g)).

(x) A description of the bleeder system to be used, including its design (see § 75.334).

(y) The means for determining the effectiveness of bleeder systems (see § 75.334(c)(2)).

(z) The locations where measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantities and tests to determine whether the air is moving in the proper direction will be made to evaluate the ventilation of nonpillared worked-out areas (see § 75.364 (a)(1)) and the effectiveness of bleeder systems (see § 75.364 (a)(2)(iii). Alternative methods of evaluation of the effectiveness of bleeder systems (§ 75.364 (a)(2)(iv)).

(aa) The means for adequately maintaining bleeder entries free of obstructions such as roof falls and standing water (see § 75.334(c)(3)).

(bb) The location of ventilation devices such as regulators, stoppings and bleeder connectors used to control air movement through worked-out areas (see § 75.334(c)(4)). The location and sequence of construction of proposed seals for each worked-out area. (see § 75.334(e)).

(cc) In mines with a demonstrated history of spontaneous combustion: a description of the measures that will be used to detect methane, carbon monoxide, and oxygen concentration during and after pillar recovery and in worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered (see § 75.334(f)(1); and, the actions which will be taken to protect miners from the hazards associated with spontaneous combustion (see § 75.334(f)(2). If a bleeder system will not be used, the methods that will be used to control spontaneous combustion, accumulations of methane-air mixtures, and other gases, dusts, and fumes in the worked-out area (see § 75.334(f)(3)).

(dd) The location of all horizontal degasification holes that are longer than 1,000 feet and the location of all vertical degasification holes.

(ee) If methane drainage systems are used, a detailed sketch of each system, including a description of safety precautions used with the systems.

(ff) Seal installation requirements provided by § 75.335 and the sampling provisions provided by § 75.336.

(gg) The alternative location for the additional sensing device if the device will not be installed on the longwall shearing machine (see § 75.342(a)(2)).

(hh) The ambient level in parts per million of carbon monoxide, and the method for determining the ambient level, in all areas where carbon monoxide sensors are installed.

(ii) The locations (designated areas) where dust measurements would be made in the belt entry when belt air is used to ventilate working sections or areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, in accordance with § 75.350(b)(3).

(jj) The locations and approved velocities at those locations where air velocities in the belt entry are above or below the limits set forth in § 75.350(a)(2) or §§ 75.350(b)(7) and 75.350(b)(8).

(kk) The locations where air quantities are measured as set forth in § 75.350(b)(6).

(ll) The locations and use of point-feed regulators, in accordance with §§ 75.350(c) and 75.350(d)(5).

(mm) The location of any diesel-discriminating sensor, and additional carbon monoxide or smoke sensors installed in the belt air course.

(nn) The length of the time delay or any other method used to reduce the number of non-fire related alert and alarm signals from carbon monoxide sensors.

(oo) The reduced alert and alarm settings for carbon monoxide sensors, in accordance with § 75.351(i)(2).

(pp) The alternate detector and the alert and alarm levels associated with the detector, in accordance with § 75.352(e)(7).

(qq) The distance that separation between the primary escapeway and the belt or track haulage entries will be maintained if other than to the first connecting crosscut outby the section loading point (see § 75.380(g)).

(rr) In anthracite mines, the dimensions of escapeways where the pitch of the coal seam does not permit escapeways to be maintained 4 feet by 5 feet and the locations where these dimensions must be maintained (see § 75.381(c)(4)).

(ss) Areas designated by the district manager where measurements of CO and NOconcentrations will be made (see § 70.1900(a)(4)).

(tt) Location where the air quantity will be maintained at the section loading point (see § 75.325(f)(2)).

(uu) Any additional location(s) required by the district manager where a minimum air quantity must be maintained for an individual unit of diesel-powered equipment. (see § 75.325(f)(5)).

(vv) The minimum air quantities that will be provided where multiple units of diesel-powered equipment are operated (see § 75.325(g) (1)-(3) and (i)).

(ww) The diesel-powered mining equipment excluded from the calculation under § 75.325(g). (see § 75.325(h)).

(xx) Action levels higher than the 50 percent level specified by § 70.1900(c). (see § 75.325(j)).

(yy) The locations where the pressure differential cannot be maintained from the primary escapeway to the belt entry.
