
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart D - Ventilation
###### § 75.380 Escapeways; bituminous and lignite mines.
####### Primary escapeway.

(f)(1) One escapeway that is ventilated with intake air shall be designated as the primary escapeway. The primary escapeway shall have a higher ventilation pressure than the belt entry unless the mine operator submits an alternative in the mine ventilation plan to protect the integrity of the primary escapeway, based on mine specific conditions, which is approved by the district manager.

(2) Paragraphs (f)(3) through (f)(7) of this section apply as follows:

(i) To all areas of a primary escapeway developed on or after November 16, 1992;

(ii) Effective as of June 10, 1997, to all areas of a primary escapeway developed between March 30, 1970 and November 16, 1992; and

(iii) Effective as of June 10, 1997, to all areas of the primary escapeway developed prior to March 30, 1970 where separation of the belt and trolley haulage entries from the primary escapeway existed prior to November 16, 1992.

(3) The following equipment is not permitted in the primary escapeway:

(i) Mobile equipment hauling coal except for hauling coal incidental to cleanup or maintenance of the primary escapeway.

(ii) Compressors, except-

(A) Compressors necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition;

(B) Compressors that are components of equipment such as locomotives and rock dusting machines; and

(C) Compressors of less than five horsepower.

(iii) Underground transformer stations, battery charging stations, substations, and rectifiers except-

(A) Where necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition; and

(B) Battery charging stations and rectifiers and power centers with transformers that are either dry-type or contain nonflammable liquid, provided they are located on or near a working section and are moved as the section advances or retreats.

(iv) Water pumps, except-

(A) Water pumps necessary to maintain the escapeway in safe, travelable condition;

(B) Submersible pumps;

(C) Permissible pumps and associated permissible switchgear;

(D) Pumps located on or near a working section that are moved as the section advances or retreats;

(E) Pumps installed in anthracite mines; and

(F) Small portable pumps.

(4) Mobile equipment operated in the primary escapeway, except for continuous miners and as provided in paragraphs (f)(5), (f)(6), and (f)(7) of this section, shall be equipped with a fire suppression system installed according to §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-16 that is-

(i) Manually operated and attended continuously by a person trained in the systems function and use, or

(ii) A multipurpose dry chemical type capable of both automatic and manual activation.

(5) Personnel carriers and small mobile equipment designed and used only for carrying people and small hand tools may be operated in primary escapeways if-

(i) The equipment is provided with a multipurpose dry chemical type fire suppression system capable of both automatic and manual activation, and the suppression system is suitable for the intended application and is listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory, or,

(ii) Battery powered and provided with two 10 pound multipurpose dry chemical portable fire extinguishers.

(6) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(3)(i), mobile equipment not provided with a fire suppression system may operate in the primary escapeway if no one is inby except those persons directly engaged in using or moving the equipment.

(7) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(3)(i), mobile equipment designated and used only as emergency vehicles or ambulances, may be operated in the primary escapeway without fire suppression systems.

(g) Except where separation of belt and trolley haulage entries from designated escapeways did not exist before November 15, 1992, and except as provided in § 75.350(c), the primary escapeway must be separated from belt and trolley haulage entries for its entire length, to and including the first connecting crosscut outby each loading point except when a greater or lesser distance for this separation is specified and approved in the mine ventilation plan and does not pose a hazard to miners.
