
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart F - Electrical Equipment - General
###### ยง 75.523-3 Automatic emergency-parking brakes.

(a) Except for personnel carriers, rubber-tired, self-propelled electric haulage equipment used in the active workings of underground coal mines shall be equipped with automatic emergency-parking brakes in accordance with the following schedule.

(1) On and after May 23, 1989-

(i) All new equipment ordered; and

(ii) All equipment originally furnished with or retrofitted with automatic emergency-parking brakes which meet the requirements of this section.

(2) On and after May 23, 1991, all other equipment.

(b) Automatic emergency-parking brakes shall-

(1) Be activated immediately by the emergency deenergization device required by 30 CFR 75.523-1 and 75.523-2;

(2) Engage automatically within 5.0 seconds when the equipment is deenergized;

(3) Safely bring the equipment when fully loaded to a complete stop on the maximum grade on which it is operated;

(4) Hold the equipment stationary despite any contraction of brake parts, exhaustion of any non-mechanical source of energy, or leakage; and

(5) Release only by a manual control that does not operate any other equipment function.

(c) Automatic emergency-parking brakes shall include a means in the equipment operator's compartment to-

(1) Apply the brakes manually without deenergizing the equipment; and

(2) Release and reengage the brakes without energizing the equipment.

(d) On and after November 24, 1989, rubber-tired, self-propelled electric face equipment not covered by paragraph (a) of this section shall be equipped with a means incorporated on the equipment and operable from each tramming station to hold the equipment stationary-

(1) On the maximum grade on which it is operated; and

(2) Despite any contraction of components, exhaustion of any non-mechanical source of energy, or leakage.

(e) The brake systems required by paragraphs (a) or (d) of this section shall be applied when the equipment operator is not at the controls of the equipment, except during movement of disabled equipment.
