
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart I - Underground High-Voltage Distribution
###### High-Voltage Longwalls
####### ยง 75.833 Handling high-voltage trailing cables.
######## http://www.astm.org.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) The rubber gloves must be designed and maintained to have a voltage rating of at least Class 1 (7,500 volts) and tested every 30 days in accordance with publication ASTM F496-02a, "Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves" (2002). The Director of the Federal Register approved this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. ASTM F496-02a may be obtained from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, call 610-832-9500 or go toASTM F496-02a is available for inspection at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, at the MSHA Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(2) The rubber glove portion must be air-tested at the beginning of each shift to assure its effectiveness.

(3) Both the leather protector and rubber insulating gloves must be visually examined before each use for signs of damage or defects.

(4) Damaged rubber gloves must be removed from the underground area of the mine or destroyed. Leather protectors must be maintained in good condition or replaced.
