
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart L - Fire Protection
###### ยง 75.1100-1 Type and quality of firefighting equipment.

Firefighting equipment required under this subpart shall meet the following minimum requirements:

(a) Waterlines: Waterlines shall be capable of delivering 50 gallons of water a minute at a nozzle pressure of 50 pounds per square inch.

(b) Portable water cars: A portable water car shall be of at least 1,000 gallons capacity (500 gallons capacity for anthracite mines) and shall have at least 300 feet of fire hose with nozzles. A portable water car shall be capable of providing a flow through the hose of 50 gallons of water per minute at a nozzle pressure of 50 pounds per square inch.

(c) A portable chemical car shall carry enough chemicals to provide a fire extinguishing capacity equivalent to that of a portable water car.

(d) Portable foam-generating machines or devices: A portable foam-generating machine or device shall have facilities and equipment for supplying the machine with 30 gallons of water per minute at 30 pounds per square inch for a period of 35 minutes.

(e) Portable fire extinguisher: A portable fire extinguisher shall be either (1) a multipurpose dry chemical type containing a nominal weight of 5 pounds of dry powder and enough expellant to apply the powder or (2) a foam-producing type containing at least 2gallons of foam-producing liquids and enough expellant to supply the foam. Only fire extinguishers approved by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or Factory Mutual Research Corp., carrying appropriate labels as to type and purpose, shall be used. After March 30, 1971, all new portable fire extinguishers acquired for use in a coal mine shall have a 2A 10 BC or higher rating.

(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the fire hose shall be lined with a material having flame resistant qualities meeting requirements for hose in Bureau of Mines' Schedule 2G. The cover shall be polyester, or other material with flame-spread qualities and mildew resistance equal or superior to polyester. The bursting pressure shall be at least 4 times the water pressure at the valve to the hose inlet with the valve closed; the maximum water pressure in the hose nozzle shall not exceed 100 p.s.i.g.

(2) Fire hose installed for use in underground coal mines prior to December 30, 1970, shall be mildew-proof and have a bursting pressure at least 4 times the water pressure at the valve to the hose inlet with the valve closed, and the maximum water pressure in the hose nozzle with water flowing shall not exceed 100 p.s.i.g.
