
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart L - Fire Protection
###### § 75.1103-4 Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems; installation; minimum requirements.

(a) Effective December 31, 2009, automatic fire sensor and warning device systems that use carbon monoxide sensors shall provide identification of fire along all belt conveyors.

(1) Carbon monoxide sensors shall be installed at the following locations:

(i) Not more than 100 feet downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece transfer point, and each belt take-up. If the belt drive, tailpiece, and/or take-up for a single transfer point are installed together in the same air course, and the distance between the units is less than 100 feet, they may be monitored with one sensor downwind of the last component. If the distance between the units exceeds 100 feet, additional sensors are required downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece transfer point, and each belt take-up;

(ii) Not more than 100 feet downwind of each section loading point;

(iii) Along the belt entry so that the spacing between sensors does not exceed 1,000 feet. Where air velocities are less than 50 feet per minute, spacing must not exceed 350 feet; and

(iv) The mine operator shall indicate the locations of all carbon monoxide sensors on the mine maps required by §§ 75.1200 and 75.1505 of this part.

(2) Where used, sensors responding to radiation, smoke, gases, or other indications of fire, shall be spaced at regular intervals to provide protection equivalent to carbon monoxide sensors, and installed within the time specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) When the distance from the tailpiece at loading points to the first outby sensor reaches the spacing requirements in § 75.1103-4(a)(1)(iii), an additional sensor shall be installed and put in operation within 24 production shift hours. When sensors of the kind described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section are used, they shall be installed and put in operation within 24 production shift hours after the equivalent distance which has been established for the sensor from the tailpiece at loading points to the first outby sensor is first reached.

(b) Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall be installed so as to minimize the possibility of damage from roof falls and the moving belt and its load. Sensors must be installed near the center in the upper third of the entry, in a manner that does not expose personnel working on the system to unsafe conditions. Sensors must not be located in abnormally high areas or in other locations where air flow patterns do not permit products of combustion to be carried to the sensors.

(c) Infrared, ultraviolet, and other sensors whose effectiveness is impaired by contamination shall be protected from dust, dirt, and moisture.

(d) The voltage of automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall not exceed 120 volts.

(e) Except when power must be cut off in the mine under the provisions of § 75.313, automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall be capable of giving warning of fire for a minimum of 4 hours after the source of power to the belt is removed unless the belt haulageway is examined for hot rollers and fire as provided in paragraph (e) (1) or (2) of this section.

(1) When an unplanned removal of power from the belt occurs an examination for hot rollers and fire in the operating belts of a conveyor system shall be completed within 2 hours after the belt has stopped.

(2) When a preplanned removal of power from the belt occurs an examination for hot rollers and fire on the operating belts of a conveyor system may commence not more than 30 minutes before the belts are stopped and shall be completed within 2 hours after the examination is commenced, or the examination shall be commenced when the belts are stopped and completed within 2 hours after the belts are stopped.
