
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 15 - REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF EXPLOSIVES AND SHEATHED EXPLOSIVE UNITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Approval of Explosives
###### ยง 15.20 Technical requirements.
####### Air-gap sensitivity.

(c)The air-gap sensitivity of the explosive shall be at least 2 inches at the minimum product firing temperature and 3 inches at a temperature between 68 and 86 &#xB0;F, and the explosive shall propagate completely.

(1) Air-gap sensitivity of the explosive is determined in the explosion-by-influence test using the 7-inch cartridge method. The air-gap sensitivity is determined for 1inch diameter cartridges and each cartridge diameter smaller than 1inches. Explosives are initiated with a test detonator.

(2) The 7-inch cartridge method is conducted with two 8-inch cartridges. One inch is cut off the end of each cartridge. The cartridges are placed in a paper tube, the cut ends facing each other, with the appropriate 2-inch or 3-inch air gap between them. The test is conducted at a temperature between 68 and 86 &#xB0;F and at the minimum product firing temperature proposed by the applicant, or 41 &#xB0;F, whichever is lower. The test temperature at which the explosive propagates completely will be specified in the approval as the minimum product firing temperature at which the explosive is approved for use.
