
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart N - Explosives and Blasting
###### ยง 75.1310 Explosives and blasting equipment.

(a) Only permissible explosives, approved sheathed explosive units, and permissible blasting units shall be taken or used underground.

(b) Black blasting powder, aluminum-cased detonators, aluminum-alloy-cased detonators, detonators with aluminum leg wires, and safety fuses shall not be taken or used underground.

(c) Explosives shall be fired only with a permissible blasting unit used in a manner consistent with its approval. Blasting units approved by MSHA that have approval labels specifying use with short-delay detonators with delay periods between 25-500 milliseconds are accepted to fire short-delay detonators up to 1,000 milliseconds, instantaneous detonators and long period delay detonators for anthracite mines.

(d) Permissible explosives and sheathed explosive units shall not be used underground when they are below the minimum product firing temperature specified by the approval. Explosives previously approved which do not specify a minimum firing temperature are permissible for use so long as the present approval is maintained.

(e) Electric detonators shall be compatible with the blasting unit and have sufficient strength to initiate the explosives being used.
