
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart N - Explosives and Blasting
###### ยง 75.1316 Preparation before blasting.

(a)(1) All nonbattery-powered electric equipment, including cables, located within 50 feet from boreholes to be loaded with explosives or the sites where sheathed explosive units are to be placed and fired shall be deenergized or removed to at least 50 feet from these locations before priming of explosives. Battery-powered equipment shall be removed to at least 50 feet from these locations before priming of explosives.

(2) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, electric equipment, including cables, need not be deenergized or removed if located at least 25 feet from these locations provided stray current tests conducted prior to priming the explosives detect stray currents of 0.05 ampere or less through a 1-ohm resistor.

(i) Tests shall be made at floor locations on the perimeter, on energized equipment frames and on repaired areas of energized cables within the area between 25 to 50 feet from the locations where the explosives are to be primed.

(ii) Tests shall be conducted using a blasting multimeter or other instrument specifically designed for such use.

(3) The blasting cable or detonator circuitry shall not come in contact with energized electric equipment, including cables.

(b) Before loading boreholes with explosives, each borehole shall be cleared and its depth and direction determined.

(c) No borehole drilled beyond the depth of cut coal shall be loaded with explosives unless that portion of the borehole deeper than the cut is tamped with noncombustible material.

(d) When two working faces are approaching each other, cutting, drilling and blasting shall be done at only one working face at a time if the two faces are within 25 feet of each other.
