
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 15 - REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF EXPLOSIVES AND SHEATHED EXPLOSIVE UNITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Approval of Explosives
###### ยง 15.20 Technical requirements.
####### Toxic gases.

(g)The total volume equivalent to carbon monoxide (CO) of toxic gases produced by detonation of the explosive shall not exceed 2.5 cubic feet per pound of explosive as determined in the large chamber test. The explosive shall propagate completely.

(1) The large chamber test is conducted with a one-pound explosive charge, including wrapper and seal, primed with a test detonator. The explosive charge is loaded into the borehole of a steel cannon, then tamped and stemmed with one pound of dry-milled fire clay. The cannon is fired into the large chamber and the gaseous products resulting from detonation of the explosive are collected and analyzed for toxic gases. At least two trials are conducted.

(2) The equivalent volume of each toxic gas produced, relative to CO, is determined by multiplying the measured volume of the gas by a conversion factor. The conversion factor is equal to the threshold limit value, time weighted average (TLV-TWA) in parts-per-million for CO divided by the TLV-TWA for the toxic gas. The TLV-TWA conversion factor for each gas for which MSHA shall test is specified in Table I of this subpart. The total volume equivalent to CO of the toxic gases produced by detonation of the explosive is the sum of the equivalent volumes of the individual toxic gases.
