
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart O - Hoisting and Mantrips
###### ยง 75.1403-5 Criteria - Belt conveyors.

(a) Positive-acting stop controls should be installed along all belt conveyors used to transport men, and such controls should be readily accessible and maintained so that the belt can be stopped or started at any location.

(b) Belt conveyors used for regularly scheduled mantrips should be stopped while men are loading or unloading.

(c) All belt conveyors used for the transportation of persons should have a minimum vertical clearance of 18 inches from the nearest overhead projection when measured from the edge of the belt and there should be at least 36 inches of side clearance where men board or leave such belt conveyors.

(d) When men are being transported on regularly scheduled mantrips on belt conveyors the belt speed should not exceed 300 feet per minute when the vertical clearance is less than 24 inches, and should not exceed 350 feet per minute when the vertical clearance is 24 inches or more.

(e) Adequate illumination including colored lights or reflective signs should be installed at all loading and unloading stations. Such colored lights and reflective signs should be so located as to be observable to all persons riding the belt conveyor.

(f) After supplies have been transported on belt conveyors such belts should be examined for unsafe conditions prior to the transportation of men on regularly scheduled mantrips, and belt conveyors should be clear before men are transported.

(g) A clear travelway at least 24 inches wide should be provided on both sides of all belt conveyors installed after March 30, 1970. Where roof supports are installed within 24 inches of a belt conveyor, a clear travelway at least 24 inches wide should be provided on the side of such support farthest from the conveyor.

(h) On belt conveyors that do not transport men, stop and start controls should be installed at intervals not to exceed 1,000 feet. Such controls should be properly installed and positioned so as to be readily accessible.

(i) Telephone or other suitable communications should be provided at points where men or supplies are regularly loaded on or unloaded from the belt conveyors.

(j) Persons should not cross moving belt conveyors, except where suitable crossing facilities are provided.
