
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart O - Hoisting and Mantrips
###### ยง 75.1403-7 Criteria - Mantrips.

(a) Mantrips should be operated independently of any loaded trip, empty trip, or supply trip and should not be operated within 300 feet of any trip, including another mantrip.

(b) A sufficient number of mantrip cars should be provided to prevent overcrowding of men.

(c) Mantrips should not be pushed.

(d) Where mantrips are operated by locomotives on slopes such mantrips should be coupled to the front and rear by locomotives capable of holding such mantrips. Where ropes are used on slopes for mantrip haulage, such conveyances should be connected by chains, steel ropes, or other effective devices between mantrip cars and the rope.

(e) Safety goggles or eyeshields should be provided for all persons being transported in open-type mantrips.

(f) All trips, including trailers and sleds, should be operated at speeds consistent with conditions and the equipment used, and should be so controlled that they can be stopped within the limits of visibility.

(g) All mantrips should be under the direction of a supervisor and the operator of each mantrip should be familiar with the haulage safety rules and regulations.

(h) Men should proceed in an orderly manner to and from mantrips and no person should be permitted to get on or off a moving mantrip.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Mantrips should not be permitted to proceed until the operator of the mantrip is assured that he has a clear road.

(k) Supplies or tools, except small hand tools or instruments, should not be transported with men.

(l) At places where men enter or leave mantrip conveyances, ample clearance should be provided and provisions made to prevent persons from coming in contact with energized electric circuits.

(m) The mine car next to a trolley locomotive should not be used to transport men. Such cars may be used to transport small tools and supplies. This is not to be construed as permitting the transportation of large or bulky supplies such as shuttle car wheel units, or similar material.

(n) Drop-bottom cars used to transport men should have the bottoms secured with an additional locking device.

(o) Extraneous materials or supplies should not be transported on top of equipment; however, materials and supplies that are necessary for or related to the operation of such equipment may be transported on top of such equipment if a hazard is not introduced.
