
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart P - Mine Emergencies
###### ยง 75.1504 Mine emergency evacuation training and drills.
####### Content of quarterly training and drill.

(b)Each quarterly evacuation training and drill shall include the following:

(1) Hands-on training on all types of self-rescue devices used at the mine, which includes-

(i) Instruction and demonstration in the use, care, and maintenance of self-rescue devices;

(ii) The complete donning of the SCSR by assuming a donning position, opening the device, activating the device, inserting the mouthpiece, and putting on the nose clip; and

(iii) Transferring between all applicable self-rescue devices.

(2) Training that emphasizes the importance of-

(i) Recognizing when the SCSR is not functioning properly and demonstrating how to initiate and reinitiate the starting sequence;

(ii) Not removing the mouthpiece, even to communicate, until the miner reaches fresh air; and

(iii) Proper use of the SCSR by controlling breathing and physical exertion.

(3) A realistic escapeway drill that is initiated and conducted with a different approved scenario each quarter and during which each miner-

(i) Travels the primary or alternate escapeway in its entirety, alternating escapeways each quarter;

(ii) Physically locates and practices using the continuous directional lifelines or equivalent devices and tethers, and physically locates the stored SCSRs and refuge alternatives;

(iii) Traverses undercasts or overcasts and doors;

(iv) Switches escapeways, as applicable; and

(v) Negotiates any other unique escapeway conditions.

(4) A review of the mine and escapeway maps, the firefighting plan, and the mine emergency evacuation plan in effect at the mine, which shall include:

(i) Informing miners of the locations of fire doors, check curtains, changes in the routes of travel, and plans for diverting smoke from escapeways.

(ii) Locating escapeways, exits, routes of travel to the surface, abandoned areas, and refuge alternatives.

(5) Operation of the fire suppression equipment available in the mine and the location and use of firefighting equipment and materials.

(6) Reviewing the procedures for deploying refuge alternatives and components.

(7) For miners who will be constructing the 15 psi stoppings prior to an event, reviewing the procedures for constructing them.

(8) Reviewing the procedures for use of the refuge alternatives and components.

(9) Task training in proper transportation of the refuge alternatives and components.
