
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 15 - REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF EXPLOSIVES AND SHEATHED EXPLOSIVE UNITS
##### Subpart C - Requirements for Approval of Sheathed Explosive Units or Other Explosive Units Designed to be Fired Outside the Confines of a Borehole
###### ยง 15.30 Technical requirements.
####### Gallery tests.

(e)No sheathed explosive unit shall cause an ignition in gallery tests 9, 10, 11, or 12. Ten trials in each gallery test shall be conducted and each sheathed explosive unit shall propagate completely in all tests.

(1) Gallery test 9 is conducted in each trial with three sheathed explosive units placed in a row 2 feet apart. One of the trials is conducted with sheathed explosive units which have been subjected to the drop test as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The units are placed on a concrete slab, primed with test detonators and fired in air containing 7.7 to 8.3 percent natural gas or 8.7 to 9.3 percent methane. The air temperature is between 41 and 86 &#xB0;F.

(2) Gallery test 10 is conducted in each trial with three sheathed explosive units placed in a row 2 feet apart. One of the trials is conducted with sheathed explosive units which have been subjected to the drop test as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The units are placed on a concrete slab, primed with test detonators and fired in air containing 3.8 to 4.2 percent natural gas, or 4.3 to 4.7 percent methane, mixed with 0.2 ounces per cubic foot of predispersed bituminous coal dust. The air temperature is between 41 and 86 &#xB0;F.

(3) Gallery test 11 is conducted in each trial with three sheathed explosive units arranged in a triangular pattern with the units in contact with each other. The units are placed in a simulated crevice formed between two square concrete slabs, each measuring 24 inches on a side and 2 inches in thickness. The crevice is formed by placing one slab on top of the other and raising the edge of the upper slab at least 4 inches. The sheathed explosive units are primed with test detonators and fired in air containing 7.7 to 8.3 percent natural gas or 8.7 to 9.3 percent methane. The air temperature is between 41 and 86 &#xB0;F.

(4) Gallery test 12 is conducted in each trial with three sheathed explosive units arranged in a triangular pattern with the units in contact with each other. The units are placed in a corner formed by three square steel plates, each measuring 24 inches on a side and one inch in thickness. The sheathed explosive units are primed with test detonators and fired in air containing 7.7 to 8.3 percent natural gas or 8.7 to 9.3 percent methane. The air temperature is between 41 and 86 &#xB0;F.
