
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart R - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 75.1713-7 First-aid equipment; location; minimum requirements.

(a) Each operator of an underground coal mine shall maintain a supply of the first-aid equipment set forth in paragraph (b) of this ยง 75.1713-7 at each of the following locations:

(1) At the mine dispatcher's office or other appropriate work area on the surface in close proximity to the mine entry;

(2) At the bottom of each regularly traveled slope or shaft; however, where the bottom of such slope or shaft is not more than 1,000 feet from the surface, such first-aid supplies may be maintained on the surface at the entrance to the mine; and

(3) At a point in each working section not more than 500 feet outby the active working face or faces.

(b) The first-aid equipment required to be maintained under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this ยง 75.1713-7 shall include at least the following:

(1) One stretcher;

(2) One broken-back board. (If a splint stretcher combination is used it will satisfy the requirements of both (1) and (2)).

(3) 24 triangular bandages (15 if a splint-stretcher combination is used).

(4) Eight 4-inch bandage compresses;

(5) Eight 2-inch bandage compresses.

(6) Twelve 1-inch adhesive compresses;

(7) One foille;

(8) Two cloth blankets:

(9) One rubber blanket or equivalent substitute.

(10) Two tourniquets;

(11) One 1-ounce bottle of aromatic spirits of ammonia or 1 dozen ammonia ampules.

(12) The necessary complements of arm and leg splints or two each inflatable plastic arm and leg splints.

(c) All first-aid supplies required to be maintained under the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this ยง 75.1713-7 shall be stored in suitable, sanitary, dust tight, moisture proof containers and such supplies shall be accessible to the miners.
