
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart R - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 75.1714-3 Self-rescue devices; inspection, testing, maintenance, repair, and recordkeeping.

(a) Each operator shall provide for proper inspection, testing, maintenance, and repair of self-rescue devices by a person trained to perform such functions.

(b) After each time a self-rescue device is worn or carried by a person, the device shall be inspected for damage and for the integrity of its seal by a person trained to perform this function. Self-rescue devices with broken seals or which are damaged so that the device will not function properly shall be removed from service.

(c) All FSRs approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84, except devices using vacuum containers as the only method of sealing, shall be tested at intervals not exceeding 90 days by weighing each device on a scale or balance accurate to within + 1 gram. A device that weighs more than 10 grams over its original weight shall be removed from service.

(d) All SCSRs approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 shall be tested in accordance with instructions approved by MSHA and NIOSH. Any device which does not meet the specified test requirements shall be removed from service.

(e) At the completion of each test required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section the person making the tests shall certify by signature and date that the tests were done. This person shall make a record of all corrective action taken. Certifications and records shall be kept at the mine and made available on request to an authorized representative of the Secretary.

(f) Self-rescue devices removed from service shall be repaired for return to service only by a person trained to perform such work and only in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
