
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart R - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 75.1730 Compressed air; general; compressed air systems.
####### http://www.asme.org

(a) All pressure vessels shall be constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with the standards and specifications of Section VIII "Unfired Pressure Vessels," of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (1971), which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. This document may be purchased from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 22 Law Drive, P.O. Box 2900, Fairfield, New Jersey 07007, Phone: 800-843-2763 (toll free);; and it is available for examination in every MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office.

(b) Compressors and compressed-air receivers shall be equipped with automatic pressure-relief valves, pressure gages, and drain valves.

(c) Repairs involving the pressure system of compressors, receivers, or compressed-air-powered equipment shall not be attempted until the pressure has been relieved from that part of the system to be repaired.

(d) At no time shall compressed air be directed toward a person. When compressed air is used, all necessary precautions shall be taken to protect persons from injury.

(e) Safety chains, suitable locking devices, or automatic cut-off valves shall be used at connections to machines of high-pressure hose lines of three-fourths of an inch inside diameter or larger, and between high-pressure hose lines of three-fourths of an inch inside diameter or larger, where a connection failure would create a hazard. For purposes of this paragraph, high-pressure means pressure of 100 p.s.i. or more.
