
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Diesel-Powered Equipment
###### ยง 75.1902 Underground diesel fuel storage - general requirements.

(a) All diesel fuel must be stored in:

(1) Diesel fuel tanks in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities;

(2) Diesel fuel tanks on diesel fuel transportation units in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities or in temporary underground fuel storage areas; or

(3) Safety cans.

(b) The total capacity of stationary diesel fuel tanks in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities must not exceed 1000 gallons.

(c)(1) Only one temporary underground diesel fuel storage area is permitted for each working section or in each area of the mine where equipment is being installed or removed.

(2) The temporary underground diesel fuel storage area must be located-

(i) Within 500 feet of the loading point;

(ii) Within 500 feet of the projected loading point where equipment is being installed; or

(iii) Within 500 feet of the last loading point where equipment is being removed.

(3) No more than one diesel fuel transportation unit at a time shall be parked in the temporary underground diesel fuel storage area.

(d) Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities and temporary underground diesel fuel storage areas must be-

(1) At least 100 feet from shafts, slopes, shops, or explosives magazines;

(2) At least 25 feet from trolley wires or power cables, or electric equipment not necessary for the operation of the storage facilities or areas; and

(3) In a location that is protected from damage by other mobile equipment.

(e) Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities must not be located within the primary escapeway.
