
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Diesel-Powered Equipment
###### § 75.1906 Transport of diesel fuel.

(a) Diesel fuel shall be transported only by diesel fuel transportation units or in safety cans.

(b) No more than one safety can shall be transported on a vehicle at any time. The can must be protected from damage during transport. All other safety cans must be stored in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities.

(c) Safety cans that leak must be promptly removed from the mine.

(d) Diesel fuel transportation unit tanks and safety cans must be conspicuously marked as containing diesel fuel.

(e) Diesel fuel transportation units must transport no more than 500 gallons of diesel fuel at a time.

(f) Tanks on diesel fuel transportation units must be permanently fixed to the unit and have a total capacity of no greater than 500 gallons of diesel fuel.

(g) Non-self-propelled diesel fuel transportation units with electrical components for dispensing fuel that are connected to a source of electrical power must be protected by a fire suppression device that meets the requirements of §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-6, and §§ 75.1107-8 through 75.1107-16.

(h) Diesel fuel transportation units and vehicles transporting safety cans containing diesel fuel must have at least two multipurpose, dry chemical type (ABC) fire extinguishers, listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and having a 10A:60B:C or higher rating, with one fire extinguisher provided on each side of the vehicle.

(i) Diesel fuel transportation units shall be parked only in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities or temporary underground diesel fuel storage areas when not in use.

(j) When the distance between a diesel fuel transportation unit and an energized trolley wire at any location is less than 12 inches, the requirements of § 75.1003-2 must be followed.

(k) Diesel fuel shall not be transported on or with mantrips or on conveyor belts.

(l) Diesel fuel shall be stored and handled in accordance with the requirements of §§ 75.1902 through 75.1906 of this part as of November 25, 1997.
