
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Diesel-Powered Equipment
###### § 75.1911 Fire suppression systems for diesel-powered equipment and fuel transportation units.
####### Recordkeeping.

(j)Persons performing inspections and tests of fire suppression systems under paragraph (i) shall record when a fire suppression system does not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section.

(1) The record shall include the equipment on which the fire suppression system did not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section, the defect found, and the corrective action taken.

(2) Records are to be kept manually in a secure manner not susceptible to alteration or recorded electronically in a secured computer system that is not susceptible to alteration.

(3) Records shall be maintained at a surface location at the mine for one year and made available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary and miners' representatives.

(k) All miners normally assigned to the active workings of the mine shall be instructed about the hazards inherent to the operation of the fire suppression systems and, where appropriate, the safeguards available for each system.

(l) For purposes of § 75.380(f), a fire suppression system installed on diesel-powered equipment and meeting the requirements of this section is equivalent to a fire suppression system meeting the requirements of §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-16.
