
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 75 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart T - Diesel-Powered Equipment
###### ยง 75.1912 Fire suppression systems for permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities.

(a) The fire suppression system required by ยง 75.1903 shall be an automatic multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire suppression system listed or approved as an engineered dry chemical extinguishing system by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and appropriate for installation at a permanent underground diesel fuel storage facility.

(1) Alternate types of fire suppression systems shall be approved in accordance with ยง 75.1107-13 of this part.

(2) The system shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and the limitations of the listing or approval.

(3) The system shall be installed in a protected location or guarded to prevent physical damage from routine operations.

(4) Suppressant agent distribution tubing or piping shall be secured and protected against damage, including pinching, crimping, stretching, abrasion, and corrosion.

(5) Discharge nozzles shall be positioned and aimed for maximum fire suppression effectiveness in the protected areas. Nozzles must also be protected against the entrance of foreign materials such as mud, coal dust, and rock dust.

(b) The fire suppression system shall provide automatic fire detection and automatic fire suppression for all areas within the facility.

(c) Audible and visual alarms to warn of fire or system faults shall be provided at the protected area and at a surface location which is continually monitored by a person when personnel are underground. In the event of a fire, personnel shall be warned in accordance with the provisions set forth in ยง 75.1502.

(d) The fire suppression system shall deenergize all power to the diesel fuel storage facility when actuated except that required for automatic enclosure and alarms.

(e) Fire suppression systems shall include two manual actuators located as follows:

(1) At least one within the fuel storage facility; and

(2) At least one a safe distance away from the storage facility and located in intake air, upwind of the storage facility.

(f) The fire suppression system shall remain operational in the event of electrical system failure.

(g) Electrically operated detection and actuation circuits shall be monitored and provided with status indicators showing power and circuit continuity. If the system is not electrically operated, a means shall be provided to indicate the functional readiness status of the detection system.

(h) Each fire suppression system shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended inspection and maintenance program and as required by the nationally recognized independent testing laboratory listing or approval, and be visually inspected at least once each week by a person trained to make such inspections.
