
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 77 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS, SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Surface Installations
###### ยง 77.216-2 Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; minimum plan requirements; changes or modifications; certification.

(a) The plan specified in ยง 77.216, shall contain as a minimum the following information:

(1) The name and address of the persons owning, operating or controlling the impoundment or impounding structure; the name associated with the impoundment or impounding structure; the identification number of the impounding structure as assigned by the District Manager; and the identification number of the mine or preparation plant as assigned by MSHA.

(2) The location of the structure indicated on the most recent USGS 7minute or 15 minute topographic quadrangle map, or a topographic map of equivalent scale if a USGS map is not available.

(3) A statement of the purpose for which the structure is or will be used.

(4) The name and size in acres of the watershed affecting the impoundment.

(5) A description of the physical and engineering properties of the foundation materials on which the structure is or will be constructed.

(6) A statement of the type, size, range, and physical and engineering properties of the materials used, or to be used, in constructing each zone or stage of the impounding structure; the method of site preparation and construction of each zone; the approximate dates of construction of the structure and each successive stage; and for existing structures, such history of construction as may be available, and any record or knowledge of structural instability.

(7) At a scale not to exceed 1 inch = 100 feet, detailed dimensional drawings of the impounding structure including a plan view and cross sections of the length and width of the impounding structure, showing all zones, foundation improvements, drainage provisions, spillways, diversion ditches, outlets, instrument locations, and slope protection, in addition to the measurement of the minimum vertical distance between the crest of the impounding structure and the reservoir surface at present and under design storm conditions, sediment or slurry level, water level and other information pertinent to the impoundment itself, including any identifiable natural or manmade features which could affect operation of the impoundment.

(8) A description of the type and purpose of existing or proposed instrumentation.

(9) Graphs showing area-capacity curves.

(10) A statement of the runoff attributable to the probable maximum precipitation of 6-hour duration and the calculations used in determining such runoff.

(11) A statement of the runoff attributable to the storm for which the structure is designed and the calculations used in determining such runoff.

(12) A description of the spillway and diversion design features and capacities and calculations used in their determination.

(13) The computed minimum factor of safety range for the slope stability of the impounding structure including methods and calculations used to determine each factor of safety.

(14) The locations of surface and underground coal mine workings including the depth and extent of such workings within the area 500 feet around the perimeter, shown at a scale not to exceed one inch = 500 feet.

(15) Provisions for construction surveillance, maintenance, and repair of the impounding structure.

(16) General provisions for abandonment.

(17) A certification by a registered engineer that the design of the impounding structure is in accordance with current, prudent engineering practices for the maximum volume of water, sediment, or slurry which can be impounded therein and for the passage of runoff from the designed storm which exceeds the capacity of the impoundment; or, in lieu of the certification, a report indicating what additional investigations, analyses, or improvement work are necessary before such a certification can be made, including what provisions have been made to carry out such work in addition to a schedule for completion of such work.

(18) Such other information pertaining to the stability of the impoundment and impounding structure which may be required by the District Manager.

(b) Any changes or modifications to plans for water, sediment, or slurry impoundments or impounding structures shall be approved by the District Manager prior to the initiation of such changes or modifications.
