
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 77 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS, SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart N - Explosives and Blasting
###### ยง 77.1302 Vehicles used to transport explosives.

(a) Vehicles used to transport explosives, other than blasting agents, shall have substantially constructed bodies, no sparking metal exposed in the cargo space, and shall be equipped with suitable sides and tail gates; explosives shall not be piled higher than the side or end.

(b) Vehicles containing explosives or detonators shall be maintained in good condition and shall be operated at a safe speed and in accordance with all safe operating practices.

(c) Vehicles containing explosives or detonators shall be posted with proper warning signs.

(d) Other materials or supplies shall not be placed on or in the cargo space of a conveyance containing explosives, detonating cord or detonators, except for safety fuse and except for properly secured nonsparking equipment used expressly in the handling of such explosives, detonating cord or detonators.

(e) Explosives and detonators shall be transported in separate vehicles unless separated by 4 inches of hardwood or the equivalent.

(f) Explosives or detonators shall be transported promptly without undue delays in transit.

(g) Explosives or detonators shall be transported at times and over routes that expose a minimum number of persons.

(h) Only the necessary attendants shall ride on or in vehicles containing explosives or detonators.

(i) Vehicles shall be attended, whenever practical and possible, while loaded with explosives or detonators.

(j) When vehicles containing explosives or detonators are parked, the brakes shall be set, the motive power shut off, and the vehicles shall be blocked securely against rolling.

(k) Vehicles containing explosives or detonators shall not be taken to a repair garage or shop for any purpose.
