
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 77 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS, SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart P - Auger Mining
###### ยง 77.1501 Auger mining; inspections.

(a) The face of all highwalls, to a distance of 25 feet on both sides of each drilling site, shall be inspected by a certified person before any augering operation is begun, and at least once during each coal producing shift and all loose material shall be removed from the drilling site before persons are permitted to enter the drilling area. The results of all such inspections shall be recorded daily in a book approved by the Secretary.

(b) In addition, the face of all highwalls, to a distance of 25 feet on both sides of each drilling site, shall be inspected frequently by a certified person during any auger operation conducted either during or after a heavy rainfall or during any period of intermittent freezing and thawing and the results of such inspections shall be recorded as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) When an auger hole penetrates an abandoned or mined out area of an underground mine, tests for methane and oxygen deficiency shall be made at the collar of the hole by a qualified person using devices approved by the Secretary to determine if dangerous quantities of methane or oxygen-deficient air are present or being emitted. If such is found no further work shall be performed until the atmosphere has been made safe.

(d) Tests for oxygen deficiency shall be conducted with a permissible flame safety lamp or other means approved by the Secretary and all tests for methane shall be conducted with a methane detector approved by the Secretary.

(e) Internal combustion engines shall not be operated in the vicinity of any auger hole in which tests for methane or oxygen deficiency are being made.
