
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 77 - MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS, SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES
##### Subpart Q - Loading and Haulage
###### ยง 77.1605 Loading and haulage equipment; installations.

(a) Cab windows shall be of safety glass or equivalent, in good condition and shall be kept clean.

(b) Mobile equipment shall be equipped with adequate brakes, and all trucks and front-end loaders shall also be equipped with parking brakes.

(c) Positive-action type brakes shall be provided on aerial tramways.

(d) Mobile equipment shall be provided with audible warning devices. Lights shall be provided on both ends when required.

(e) Guard nets or other suitable protection shall be provided where tramways pass over roadways, walkways, or buildings.

(f) Guards shall be installed to prevent swaying buckets from hitting towers.

(g) Aerial tramway cable connections shall be designed to offer minimum obstruction to the passage of wheels.

(h) Rocker-bottom or bottom-dump cars shall be equipped with positive locking devices, or other suitable devices.

(i) Ramps and dumps shall be of solid construction, of ample width, have ample clearance and headroom, and be kept reasonably free of spillage.

(j) Chute-loading installations shall be designed so that the men pulling chutes are not required to be in a hazardous position during loading operations.

(k) Berms or guards shall be provided on the outer bank of elevated roadways.

(l) Berms, bumper blocks, safety hooks, or similar means shall be provided to prevent overtravel and overturning at dumping locations.

(m) Roadbeds, rails, joints, switches, frogs, and other elements on railroads shall be designed, installed, and maintained in a safe manner consistent with the speed and type of haulage.

(n) Where practicable, a minimum of 30 inches continuous clearance from the farthest projection of moving railroad equipment shall be provided on at least one side of the tracks; all places where it is not possible to provide 30-inch clearance shall be marked conspicuously.

(o) Track guardrails, lead rails, and frogs shall be protected or blocked so as to prevent a person's foot from becoming wedged.

(p) Positive-acting stop-blocks, derail devices, track skates, or other adequate means shall be installed wherever necessary to protect persons from runaway or moving railroad equipment.

(q) Switch throws shall be installed so as to provide adequate clearance for switchmen.

(r) Where necessary, bumper blocks or the equivalent shall be provided at all track dead ends.
