
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 90 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - COAL MINERS WHO HAVE EVIDENCE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PNEUMOCONIOSIS
##### Subpart C - Sampling Procedures
###### ยง 90.201 Sampling; general and technical requirements.

(a) An approved coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU) shall be used to take samples of the concentration of respirable coal mine dust in the working environment of each part 90 miner as required by this part. On February 1, 2016, part 90 miners shall be sampled only with an approved continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM) as required by this part and an approved CMDPSU shall not be used, unless notified by the Secretary to continue to use an approved CMDPSU to conduct quarterly sampling.

(b) If using a CMDPSU, the sampling device shall be worn or carried to and from each part 90 miner. If using a CPDM, the sampling device shall be worn by the part 90 miner at all times. Approved sampling devices shall be operated portal-to-portal and shall remain operational during the part 90 miner's entire shift, which includes the time spent performing normal work duties and while traveling to and from the assigned work location. If the work shift to be sampled is longer than 12 hours and the sampling device is:

(1) A CMDPSU, the operator shall switch-out the unit's sampling pump prior to the 13th-hour of operation.

(2) A CPDM, the operator shall switch-out the CPDM with a fully charged device prior to the 13th-hour of operation.

(c) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, the respirable dust samples required under this part using a CMDPSU shall be taken by placing the sampling device as follows:

(1) On the part 90 miner;

(2) On the piece of equipment which the part 90 miner operates within 36 inches of the normal working position; or

(3) At a location that represents the maximum concentration of dust to which the part 90 miner is exposed.

(d) If using a CMDPSU, one control filter shall be used for each shift of sampling. Each control filter shall:

(1) Have the same pre-weight date (noted on the dust data card) as the filter used for sampling;

(2) Remain plugged at all times;

(3) Be used for the same amount of time, and exposed to the same temperature and handling conditions as the filter used for sampling; and

(4) Be kept with the exposed samples after sampling and in the same mailing container when transmitted to MSHA.

(e) The respirable dust samples required by this part and taken with a CMDPSU shall be collected while the part 90 miner is performing normal work duties.

(f) Records showing the length of each shift for each part 90 miner shall be made and retained for at least six months, and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and submitted to the District Manager when requested in writing.

(g) Upon request from the District Manager, the operator shall submit the date and time any respirable dust sampling required by this part will begin. This information shall be submitted at least 48 hours prior to scheduled sampling.

(h) Operators using CPDMs shall provide training to all part 90 miners. The training shall be completed prior to a part 90 miner wearing a CPDM and then every 12 months thereafter. The training shall include:

(1) The importance of monitoring dust concentrations and properly wearing the CPDM;

(2) Explaining the basic features and capabilities of the CPDM;

(3) Discussing the various types of information displayed by the CPDM and how to access that information; and

(4) How to start and stop a short-term sample run during compliance sampling.

(i) An operator shall keep a record of the CPDM training at the mine site for 24 months after completion of the training. An operator may keep the record elsewhere if the record is immediately accessible from the mine site by electronic transmission. Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary or Secretary of HHS, the operator shall promptly provide access to any such training records. The record shall include:

(1) The date of training;

(2) The names of miners trained; and

(3) The subjects included in the training.

(j) An anthracite mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method may use either a CPDM or a CMDPSU to conduct the required sampling. The mine operator shall notify the District Manager in writing of its decision to not use a CPDM.
