
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 90 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - COAL MINERS WHO HAVE EVIDENCE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PNEUMOCONIOSIS
##### Subpart C - Sampling Procedures
###### ยง 90.205 Approved sampling devices; operation; air flowrate.

(a) Approved sampling devices shall be operated at the flowrate of 2.0 L/min if using a CMDPSU; at 2.2 L/min if using a CPDM; or at a different flowrate recommended by the manufacturer.

(b) If using a CMDPSU, each approved sampling device shall be examined each shift, by a person certified in sampling during:

(1) The second hour after being put into operation to assure it is in the proper location, operating properly, and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, necessary adjustments shall be made by the certified person. This examination is not required if the sampling device is being operated in an anthracite coal mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method.

(2) The last hour of operation to assure that the sampling device is operating properly and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, the respirable dust sample shall be transmitted to MSHA with a notation by the certified person on the back of the dust data card stating that the proper flowrate was not maintained. Other events occurring during the collection of respirable dust samples that may affect the validity of the sample, such as dropping of the sampling head assembly onto the mine floor, shall be noted on the back of the dust data card.

(c) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall monitor the dust concentrations and the sampling status conditions being reported by the sampling device at mid-shift or more frequently as specified in the approved respirable dust control plan, if applicable, to assure: The sampling device is in the proper location and operating properly; and the work environment of the part 90 miner being sampled remains in compliance with the applicable standard at the end of the shift. This monitoring is not required if the sampling device is being operated in an anthracite coal mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method.
