
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 90 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - COAL MINERS WHO HAVE EVIDENCE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PNEUMOCONIOSIS
##### Subpart C - Sampling Procedures
###### ยง 90.208 Respirable dust samples; transmission by operator.

(a) If using a CMDPSU, the operator shall transmit within 24 hours after the end of the sampling shift all samples collected to fulfill the requirements of this part, including control filters, in containers provided by the manufacturer of the filter cassette to: Respirable Dust Processing Laboratory, Pittsburgh Safety and Health Technology Center, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Building 38, Pittsburgh, PA 15236-3611, or to any other address designated by the District Manager.

(b) The operator shall not open or tamper with the seal of any filter cassette or alter the weight of any filter cassette before or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part.

(c) A person certified in sampling shall properly complete the dust data card that is provided by the manufacturer for each filter cassette. The card shall have an identification number identical to that on the cassette used to take the sample and be submitted to MSHA with the sample. Each card shall be signed by the certified person who actually performed the required examinations under 90.205(b) of this part during the sampling shift and shall include that person's MSHA Individual Identification Number (MIIN). Respirable dust samples with data cards not properly completed may be voided by MSHA.

(d) All respirable dust samples collected by the operator shall be considered taken to fulfill the sampling requirements of part 70, 71, or 90 of this title, unless the sample has been identified in writing by the operator to the District Manager, prior to the intended sampling shift, as a sample to be used for purposes other than required by part 70, 71, or 90 of this title.

(e) Respirable dust samples received by MSHA in excess of those required by this part shall be considered invalid samples.

(f) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall (1) validate, certify, and transmit electronically to MSHA within 24 hours after the end of each sampling shift all sample data file information collected and stored in the CPDM, including the sampling status conditions encountered when sampling each part 90 miner; and (2) not tamper with the CPDM or its components in any way before, during, or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part, or alter any data files. All CPDM data files transmitted electronically to MSHA shall be maintained by the operator for at least 12 months.
