
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter O - Coal Mine Safety and Health
#### PART 90 - MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS - COAL MINERS WHO HAVE EVIDENCE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PNEUMOCONIOSIS
##### Subpart D - Respirable Dust Control Plans
###### ยง 90.301 Respirable dust control plan; approval by District Manager; copy to part 90 miner.

(a) The District Manager will approve respirable dust control plans on a mine-by-mine basis. When approving respirable dust control plans, the District Manager shall consider whether:

(1) The respirable dust control measures would be likely to maintain concentrations of respirable coal mine dust at or below the applicable standard; and

(2) The operator's compliance with all provisions of the respirable dust control plan could be objectively ascertained by MSHA.

(b) MSHA may take respirable dust samples to determine whether the respirable dust control measures in the operator's plan effectively maintain concentrations of respirable coal mine dust at or below the applicable standard.

(c) The operator shall comply with all provisions of each respirable dust control plan upon notice from MSHA that the respirable dust control plan is approved.

(d) The operator shall provide a copy of the current respirable dust control plan required under this part to the part 90 miner. The operator shall not post the original or a copy of the plan on the mine bulletin board.

(e) The operator may review respirable dust control plans and submit proposed revisions to such plans to the District Manager for approval.
