
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 18.6 Applications.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(i) MSHA will accept applications for explosion-proof enclosures under part 18 designed and tested to the International Electrotechnical Commission's (IEC) standards for Electrical Apparatus for Explosive Gas Atmospheres, Part 0, General Requirements (IEC 60079-0, Fourth Edition, 2004-01); and Part 1, Electrical Apparatus for Explosive Gas Atmospheres, Flameproof Enclosures "d" (IEC 60079-1, Fifth Edition, 2003-11) (which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof) provided the modifications to the IEC standards specified in ยง 18.6(a)(3)(i)(A) through (I) are met. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The IEC standards may be inspected at the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Electrical Safety Division, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:These IEC standards may be obtained from International Electrical Commission, Central Office 3, rue de Varemb&#xE9;, P.O. Box 131, CH-1211 GENEVA 20, Switzerland.

(A) Enclosures shall be made of metal and not have a compartment exceeding ten (10) feet in length. Glass or polycarbonate materials shall be the only materials utilized in the construction of windows and lenses. External surfaces of enclosures shall not exceed 150 &#xB0;C (302 &#xB0;F) and internal surface temperatures of enclosures with polycarbonate windows and lenses shall not exceed 115 &#xB0;C (240 &#xB0;F), in normal operation. Other non-metallic materials for enclosures or parts of enclosures will be evaluated, on a case-by-case basis, under the new technology provisions in ยง 18.20(b) of this part.

(B) Enclosures shall be rugged in construction and should meet existing requirements for minimum bolt size and spacing and for minimum wall, cover, and flange thicknesses specified in paragraph (g)(19) of ยง 7.304 Technical requirements. Enclosure fasteners should be uniform in size and length, be provided at all corners, and be secured from loosening by lockwashers or equivalent. An engineering analysis shall be provided for enclosure designs that deviate from the existing requirements. The analysis shall show that the proposed enclosure design meets or exceeds the mechanical strength of a comparable enclosure designed to 150 psig according to existing requirements, and that flamepath clearances in excess of existing requirements will not be produced at an internal pressure of 150 psig. This shall be verified by explosion testing the enclosure at a minimum of 150 psig.

(C) Enclosures shall be designed to withstand a minimum pressure of at least 150 psig without leakage through any welds or castings, rupture of any part that affects explosion-proof integrity, clearances exceeding those permitted under existing requirements along flame-arresting paths, or permanent distortion exceeding 0.040-inch per linear foot.

(D) Flamepath clearances, including clearances between fasteners and the holes through which they pass, shall not exceed those specified in existing requirements. No intentional gaps in flamepaths are permitted.
