
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 18.6 Applications.
####### e.g.

(E) The minimum lengths of the flame arresting paths, based on enclosure volume, shall conform to those specified in existing requirements to the nearest metric equivalent value (, 12.5 mm, 19 mm, and 25 mm are considered equivalent toinch,inch and 1 inch respectively for plane and cylindrical joints). The widths of any grooves for o-rings shall be deducted in measuring the widths of flame-arresting paths.

(F) Gaskets shall not be used to form any part of a flame-arresting path. If o-rings are installed within a flamepath, the location of the o-rings shall meet existing requirements.

(G) Cable entries into enclosures shall be of a type that utilizes either flame-resistant rope packing material or sealing rings (grommets). If plugs and mating receptacles are mounted to an enclosure wall, they shall be of explosion-proof construction. Insulated bushings or studs shall not be installed in the outside walls of enclosures. Lead entrances utilizing sealing compounds and flexible or rigid metallic conduit are not permitted.

(H) Unused lead entrances shall be closed with a metal plug that is secured by spot welding, brazing, or equivalent.

(I) Special explosion tests are required for explosion-proof enclosures that share leads (electric conductors) through a common wall with another explosion-proof enclosure. These tests are required to determine the presence of pressure piling conditions in either enclosure when one or more of the insulating barriers, sectionalizing terminals, or other isolating parts are sequentially removed from the common wall between the enclosures. Enclosures that exhibit pressures during these tests that exceed those specified in existing requirements must be provided with a warning tag. The durable warning tag must indicate that the insulating barriers, sectionalizing terminals, or other isolating parts be maintained in order to insure the explosion-proof integrity for either enclosure sharing a common wall. A warning tag is not required if the enclosures withstand a static pressure of twice the maximum value observed in the explosion tests.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) The application, all related documents, and all correspondence concerning it shall be addressed to the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059.

(b)-(c) [Reserved]

(d) Applications for acceptance of hose as flame resistant shall include the following information: Trade name of hose, identification of materials used, including compound numbers, thickness of cover, thickness of tube, and number and weight of plies. The applicant shall provide other description or specifications as may be subsequently required.

(e) Drawings, drawing lists, specifications, wiring diagram, and descriptions shall be adequate in number and detail to identify fully the complete assembly, component parts, and subassemblies. Drawings shall be titled, numbered, dated and shall show the latest revision. Each drawing shall include a warning statement that changes in design must be authorized by MSHA before they are applied to approved equipment. When intrinsically safe circuits are incorporated in a machine or accessory, the wiring diagram shall include a warning statement that any change(s) in the intrinsically safe circuitry or components may result in an unsafe condition. The specifications shall include an assembly drawing(s) (see Figure 1 in Appendix II) showing the overall dimensions of the machine and the identity of each component part which may be listed thereon or separately, as in a bill of material (see Figure 2 in Appendix II). MSHA may accept photographs (minimum size 8&#x2033; x 10&#x2033;) in lieu of assembly drawing(s). Purchased parts shall be identified by the manufacturer's name, catalog number(s), and rating(s). In the case of standard hardware and miscellaneous parts, such as insulating pieces, size and kind of material shall be specified. All drawings of component parts submitted to MSHA shall be identical to those used in the manufacture of the parts. Dimensions of parts designed to prevent the passage of flame shall specify allowable tolerances. A notation "Do Not Drill Through" or equivalent should appear on drawings with the specifications for all "blind" holes.

(f) MSHA reserves the right to require the applicant to furnish supplementary drawings showing sections through complex flame-arresting paths, such as labyrinths used in conjunction with ball or roller bearings, and also drawings containing dimensions not indicated on other drawings submitted to MSHA.

(g) The applicant may ship his equipment to MSHA for investigation at the time of filing his application and payment of the required fees. Shipping charges shall be prepaid by the applicant.

(h) For a complete investigation leading to approval or certification the applicant shall furnish MSHA with the components necessary for inspection and testing. Expendable components shall be supplied by the applicant to permit continuous operation of the equipment while being tested. If special tools are necessary to assemble or disassemble any component for inspection or test, the applicant shall furnish them with the equipment to be tested.

(i) For investigation of a hose, the applicant shall furnish samples as follows:

(j) The applicant shall submit a sample caution statement (see Figure 3 in Appendix II) specifying the conditions for maintaining permissibility of the equipment.

(k) The applicant shall submit a factory-inspection form (see Figure 4 in Appendix II) used to maintain quality control at the place of manufacture or assembly to insure that component parts are made and assembled in strict accordance with the drawings and specifications covering a design submitted to MSHA for approval or certification.

(l) MSHA will accept an application for an approval, a letter of certification, or an acceptance for listing of a product that is manufactured in a country other than the United States provided: (1) All correspondence, specifications, lettering on drawings (metric-system dimensions acceptable), instructions, and related information are in English; and (2) all other requirements of this part are met the same as for a domestic applicant.
