
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Minerals Revenue Management
#### PART 203 - RELIEF OR REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 203.4 How do the provisions in this part apply to different types of leases and projects?

The tables in this section summarize the similar application and approval provisions for the discretionary end-of-life and deep water royalty relief programs in §§ 203.50 to 203.91. Because royalty relief for deep gas on leases not subject to deep water royalty relief, as provided for under §§ 203.40 to 203.48, does not involve an application, its provisions do not parallel the other two royalty relief programs and are not summarized in this section.

(a) We require the information elements indicated by an X in the following table and described in §§ 203.51, 203.62, and 203.81 through 203.89 for applications for royalty relief.

(b) We require the confirmation elements indicated by an X in the following table and described in §§ 203.70, 203.81, 203.90 and 203.91 to retain royalty relief.

(c) The following table indicates by an X, and §§ 203.50, 203.52, 203.60 and 203.67 describe, the prerequisites for our approval of your royalty relief application.

(d) The following table indicates by an X, and §§ 203.52, 203.74, and 203.75 describe, the prerequisites for a redetermination of our royalty relief decision.

(e) The following table indicates by an X, and §§ 203.53 and 203.69 describe, the characteristics of approved royalty relief.

(f) The following table indicates by an X, and §§ 203.54 and 203.78 describe, circumstances under which we discontinue your royalty relief.

(g) The following table indicates by an X, and §§ 203.55, 203.76, and 203.77 describe, circumstances under which we end or reduce royalty relief.
