
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Minerals Revenue Management
#### PART 203 - RELIEF OR REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATES
##### Subpart B - OCS Oil, Gas, and Sulfur General
###### Royalty Relief for Drilling Ultra-Deep Wells on Leases Not Subject to Deep Water Royalty Relief
####### ยง 203.35 What administrative steps must I take to use the RSV earned by a qualified phase 2 or phase 3 ultra-deep well?

To use an RSV earned under ยง 203.31:

(a) You must notify the BSEE Regional Supervisor for Production and Development in writing of your intent to begin drilling operations on all your ultra-deep wells.

(b) Before beginning production, you must meet any production measurement requirements that the BSEE Regional Supervisor for Production and Development has determined are necessary under 30 CFR part 250, subpart L.

(c)(1) Within 30 days of the beginning of production from any wells that would become qualified phase 2 or phase 3 ultra-deep wells by satisfying the requirements of this section:

(i) Provide written notification to the BSEE Regional Supervisor for Production and Development that production has begun; and

(ii) Request confirmation of the size of the RSV earned by your lease.

(2) If you produced from a qualified phase 2 or phase 3 ultra-deep well before December 18, 2008, you must provide the information in paragraph (c)(1) of this section no later than January 20, 2009.

(d) If you cannot produce from a well that otherwise meets the criteria for a qualified phase 2 ultra-deep well that is an ultra-deep short sidetrack before May 3, 2009, on a lease that is located entirely or partly in water less than 200 meters deep, or before May 3, 2013, on a lease that is located entirely in water more than 200 meters but less than 400 meters deep, the BSEE Regional Supervisor for Production and Development may extend the deadline for beginning production for up to 1 year, based on the circumstances of the particular well involved, if it meets all the following criteria.

(1) The delay occurred after drilling reached the total depth in your well.

(2) Production (other than test production) was expected to begin from the well before May 3, 2009, on a lease that is located entirely or partly in water less than 200 meters deep or before May 3, 2013, on a lease that is located entirely in water more than 200 meters but less than 400 meters deep. You must provide a credible activity schedule with supporting documentation.

(3) The delay in beginning production is for reasons beyond your control, such as adverse weather and accidents which BSEE deems were unavoidable.
