
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Minerals Revenue Management
#### PART 203 - RELIEF OR REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATES
##### Subpart B - OCS Oil, Gas, and Sulfur General
###### Royalty Relief for Drilling Deep Gas Wells on Leases Not Subject to Deep Water Royalty Relief
####### § 203.45 If I drill a certified unsuccessful well, what royalty relief will my lease earn?

Your lease may earn a royalty suspension supplement. Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the royalty suspension supplement is in addition to any royalty suspension volume your lease may earn under § 203.41.

(a) If you drill a certified unsuccessful well and you satisfy the administrative requirements of § 203.47, subject to the price conditions in § 203.48, your lease earns an RSS shown in the following table. The RSS is shown in billions of cubic feet of gas equivalent (BCFE) or in thousands of cubic feet of gas equivalent (MCFE) and is applicable to oil and gas production as prescribed in § 203.46.

(b) This paragraph applies to oil and gas volumes you report on the OGOR-A for your lease under 30 CFR 1210.102.

(1) You must apply the RSS prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, in accordance with the requirements in § 203.46, to all oil and gas produced from the lease:

(i) On or after December 18, 2008, if your lease is located in water more than 200 meters but less than 400 meters deep; or

(ii) On or after May 3, 2004, if your lease is located in water partly or entirely less than 200 meters deep.

(2) Production to which an RSV applies under §§ 203.31 through 203.33 and §§ 203.41 through 203.43 does not count toward the lease RSS. All other production, including production that is not subject to royalty, counts toward the lease RSS.

(c) The conversion from oil to gas for using the royalty suspension supplement is specified in § 203.73.

(d) Each lease is eligible for up to two royalty suspension supplements. Therefore, the total royalty suspension supplement for a lease cannot exceed 10 BCFE.

(1) You may not earn more than one royalty suspension supplement from a single wellbore.

(2) If you begin drilling a certified unsuccessful well on one lease but the completion target is on a second lease, the entire royalty suspension supplement belongs to the second lease. However, if the target straddles a lease line, the lease where the surface of the well is located earns the royalty suspension supplement.

(e) If the same wellbore that earns an RSS as a certified unsuccessful well later produces from a perforated interval the top of which is 15,000 feet TVD or deeper and becomes a qualified well, it will be subject to the following conditions:

(1) Beginning on the date production starts, you must stop applying the royalty suspension supplement earned by that wellbore to your lease production.

(2) If the completion of this qualified well is on your lease or, in the case of a directional well, is on another lease, then you must subtract from the royalty suspension volume earned by that qualified well the royalty suspension supplement amounts earned by that wellbore that have already been applied either on your lease or any other lease. The difference represents the royalty suspension volume earned by the qualified well.

(f) If the same wellbore that earned a royalty suspension supplement later has a sidetrack drilled from that wellbore, you are not required to subtract any royalty suspension supplement earned by that wellbore from the royalty suspension volume that may be earned by the sidetrack.

(g) You owe minimum royalties or rentals in accordance with your lease terms notwithstanding any royalty suspension supplements under this section.
