
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 18.11 Approval plate.

(a)(1) The notice of approval will be accompanied by a photograph of an approval plate, bearing the emblem of Mine Safety and Health Administration, the name of the complete assembly, the name of the applicant, and spaces for the approval number, serial number, and the type or model of machine.

(2) An extension of approval will not affect the original approval number except that the extension number shall be added to the original approval number on the approval plate. (Example: Original approval No. 2G-3000; seventh extension No. 2G-3000-7.)

(b) The applicant shall reproduce the design on a separate plate, which shall be attached in a suitable place, on each complete assembly to which it relates. The size, type, location, and method of attaching an approval plate are subject to MSHA's concurrence. The method for affixing the approval plate shall not impair any explosion-proof feature of the equipment.

(c) The approval plate identifies as permissible the machine or accessory to which it is attached, and use of the approval plate obligates the applicant to whom the approval was issued to maintain in his plant the quality of each complete assembly and guarantees that the equipment is manufactured and assembled according to the drawings, specifications, and descriptions upon which the approval and subsequent extension(s) of approval were based.

(d) A completely assembled approved machine with an integral dust collector shall bear an approval plate indicating that the requirements of part 33 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 25B), have been complied with. Approval numbers will be assigned under each part of such joint approvals.
