
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Minerals Revenue Management
#### PART 203 - RELIEF OR REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATES
##### Subpart B - OCS Oil, Gas, and Sulfur General
###### Royalty Relief for Pre-Act Deep Water Leases and for Development and Expansion Projects
####### ยง 203.69 If my application is approved, what royalty relief will I receive?
######## minimum

(e) If neither paragraph (c) nor (d) of this section apply, theroyalty suspension volumes are as shown in the following table:

(f) If your application includes pre-Act leases in different categories of water depth, we apply the minimum royalty suspension volume for the deepest such lease then assigned to the field. We base the water depth and makeup of a field on the water-depth delineations in the "Lease Terms and Economic Conditions" map and the "Fields Directory" documents and updates in effect at the time your application is deemed complete. These publications are available from the BSEE Gulf of Mexico Regional Office.

(g) You will get a royalty suspension volume above the minimum if we determine that you need more to make the field or development project economic.

(h) For expansion projects, the minimum royalty suspension volume equals 10 percent of the median of the distribution of known recoverable resources upon which we based approval of your application from all reservoirs included in your project plus any suspension volumes required under ยง 203.66. If we determine that your expansion project may be economic only with more relief, we will determine and grant you the royalty suspension volume necessary to make the project economic.

(i) The royalty suspension volume applicable to specific leases will continue through the end of the month in which cumulative production reaches that volume. You must calculate cumulative production from all the leases in the authorized field or project that are entitled to share the royalty suspension volume.
