
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Minerals Revenue Management
#### PART 203 - RELIEF OR REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATES
##### Subpart B - OCS Oil, Gas, and Sulfur General
###### Royalty Relief for Pre-Act Deep Water Leases and for Development and Expansion Projects
####### § 203.76 When might BSEE withdraw or reduce the approved size of my relief?
######## etc.

(a) You change the type of development system proposed in your application (e.g., change from a fixed platform to floating production system, or from an independent development and production system to one with subsea wells tied back to a host production facility,).

(b) You do not start building the proposed development and production system within 18 months of the date we approved your application, unless the BSEE Director grants you an extension under § 203.79(c). If you start building the proposed system and then suspend its construction before completion, and you do not restart continuous building of the proposed system within 18 months of our approval, we will withdraw the relief we granted.

(c) Your actual development costs are less than 80 percent of the eligible development costs estimated in your application's most likely scenario, and you do not report that fact in your post-production development report (§ 203.70). Development costs are those expenditures defined in § 203.89(b) incurred between the application submission date and start of production. If you report this fact in the post-production development report, you may retain the lesser of 50 percent of the original royalty suspension volume or 50 percent of the median of the distribution of the potentially recoverable resources anticipated in your application.

(d) We granted you a royalty-suspension volume after you qualified for a redetermination under § 203.74(c), and we find out your actual development costs are less than 90 percent of the eligible development costs associated with your application's most likely scenario. Development costs are those expenditures defined in § 203.89(b) incurred between your application submission date and start of production.

(e) You do not send us the fabrication confirmation report or the post-production development report, or you provide false or intentionally inaccurate information that was material to our granting royalty relief under this section. You must pay royalties and late-payment interest determined under 30 U.S.C. 1721 and 30 CFR 1218.54 on all volumes for which you used the royalty suspension. You also may be subject to penalties under other provisions of law.
