
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Minerals Revenue Management
#### PART 203 - RELIEF OR REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATES
##### Subpart B - OCS Oil, Gas, and Sulfur General
###### Required Reports
####### ยง 203.82 What is BSEE's authority to collect this information?
######## et seq.,

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved the information collection requirements in part 203 under 44 U.S.C. 3501and assigned OMB control number 1010-0071.

(a) We use the information to determine whether royalty relief will result in production that wouldn't otherwise occur. We rely largely on your information to make these determinations.

(1) Your application for royalty relief must contain enough information on finances, economics, reservoirs, G&G characteristics, production, and engineering estimates for us to determine whether:

(i) We should grant relief under the law, and

(ii) The requested relief will ultimately recover more resources and return a reasonable profit on project investments.

(2) Your fabricator confirmation and post-production development reports must contain enough information for us to verify that your application reasonably represented your plans.

(b) Applicants (respondents) are Federal OCS oil and gas lessees. Applications are required to obtain or retain a benefit. Therefore, if you apply for royalty relief, you must provide this information. We will protect information considered proprietary under applicable law and under regulations at ยง 203.63 and 30 CFR part 250.

(c) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 requires us to inform you that we may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

(d) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
