
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.20 Quality of material, workmanship, and design.

(a) Electrically operated equipment intended for use in coal mines shall be rugged in construction and shall be designed to facilitate inspection and maintenance.

(b) MSHA will test only electrical equipment that in the opinion of its qualified representatives is constructed of suitable materials, is of good quality workmanship, based on sound engineering principles, and is safe for its intended use. Since all possible designs, circuits, arrangements, or combinations of components and materials cannot be foreseen, MSHA reserves the right to modify design, construction, and test requirements to obtain the same degree of protection as provided by the tests described in Subpart C of this part.

(c) Moving parts, such as rotating saws, gears, and chain drives, shall be guarded to prevent personal injury.

(d) Flange joints and lead entrances shall be accessible for field inspection, where practicable.

(e) An audible warning device shall be provided on each mobile machine that travels at a speed greater than 2.5 miles per hour.

(f) Brakes shall be provided for each wheel-mounted machine, unless design of the driving mechanism will preclude accidental movement of the machine when parked.

(g) A headlight and red light-reflecting material shall be provided on both front and rear of each mobile transportation unit that travels at a speed greater than 2.5 miles per hour. Red light-reflecting material should be provided on each end of other mobile machines.
