
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Performance Standards
####### ยง 250.108 What requirements must I follow for cranes and other material-handling equipment?

(a) All cranes installed on fixed platforms must be operated in accordance with American Petroleum Institute's Recommended Practice for Operation and Maintenance of Offshore Cranes, API RP 2D (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198).

(b) All cranes installed on fixed platforms must be equipped with a functional anti-two block device.

(c) If a fixed platform is installed after March 17, 2003, all cranes on the platform must meet the requirements of American Petroleum Institute Specification for Offshore Pedestal Mounted Cranes, API Spec 2C (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198).

(d) All cranes manufactured after March 17, 2003, and installed on a fixed platform, must meet the requirements of API Spec 2C.

(e) You must maintain records specific to a crane or the operation of a crane installed on an OCS fixed platform, as follows:

(1) Retain all design and construction records, including installation records for any anti-two block safety devices, for the life of the crane. The records must be kept at the OCS fixed platform.

(2) Retain all inspection, testing, and maintenance records of cranes for at least 4 years. The records must be kept at the OCS fixed platform.

(3) Retain the qualification records of the crane operator and all rigger personnel for at least 4 years. The records must be kept at the OCS fixed platform.

(f) You must operate and maintain all other material-handling equipment in a manner that ensures safe operations and prevents pollution.
