
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Performance Standards
####### § 250.115 What are the procedures for, and effects of, incorporation of documents by reference in this part?

For the documents incorporated by reference in this part:

(a) Incorporation by reference of a document is limited to the edition of the document, or the specific edition and supplement or addendum, that is cited in § 250.198. Future amendments or revisions of the incorporated document are not included. BSEE will publish any changes to the incorporation of the document in theand amend § 250.198 as appropriate.

(b) BSEE may make a rule amending the incorporation of a document effective without prior opportunity for public comment when BSEE determines:

(1) That the revisions to the document result in safety improvements or represent new industry standard technology and do not impose undue costs on the affected parties; and

(2) BSEE meets the requirements for making a rule immediately effective under 5 U.S.C. 553.

(c) The effect of incorporation by reference of a document into the regulations in this part is that the incorporated document is a requirement. When a section in this part refers to an incorporated document, you are responsible for complying with the provisions of that entire document, except to the extent that the section that refers to the document provides otherwise. When a section in this part refers to a part of an incorporated document, you are responsible for complying with that part of the document as provided in that section.

(d) Under §§ 250.141 and 250.142, you may comply with a later edition of a specific document incorporated by reference, provided:

(1) You show that complying with the later edition provides a degree of protection, safety, or performance equal to or better than would be achieved by compliance with the listed edition; and

(2) You obtain prior written approval for alternative compliance from the authorized BSEE official.
