
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Naming and Identifying Facilities and Wells (Does Not Include MODUs)
####### ยง 250.150 How do I name facilities and wells in the Gulf of Mexico Region?

(a) Assign each facility a letter designation except for those types of facilities identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. For example, A, B, CA, or CB.

(1) After a facility is installed, rename each predrilled well that was assigned only a number and was suspended temporarily at the mudline or at the surface. Use a letter and number designation. The letter used must be the same as that of the production facility, and the number used must correspond to the order in which the well was completed, not necessarily the number assigned when it was drilled. For example, the first well completed for production on Facility A would be renamed Well A-1, the second would be Well A-2, and so on; and

(2) When you have more than one facility on a block, each facility installed, and not bridge-connected to another facility, must be named using a different letter in sequential order. For example, EC 222A, EC 222B, EC 222C.

(3) When you have more than one facility on multiple blocks in a local area being co-developed, each facility installed and not connected with a walkway to another facility should be named using a different letter in sequential order with the block number corresponding to the block on which the platform is located. For example, EC 221A, EC 222B, and EC 223C.

(b) In naming multiple well caissons, you must assign a letter designation.

(c) In naming single well caissons, you must use certain criteria as follows:

(1) For single well caissons not attached to a facility with a walkway, use the well designation. For example, Well No. 1;

(2) For single well caissons attached to a facility with a walkway, use the same designation as the facility. For example, rename Well No.10 as A-10; and

(3) For single well caissons with production equipment, use a letter designation for the facility name and a letter plus number designation for the well. For example, the Well No. 1 caisson would be designated as Facility A, and the well would be Well A-1.
