
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.32 Fastenings - additional requirements.

(a) Bolts, screws, or studs shall be used for fastening adjoining parts to prevent the escape of flame from an enclosure. Hinge pins or clamps will be acceptable for this purpose provided MSHA determines them to be equally effective.

(b) Lockwashers shall be provided for all bolts, screws, and studs that secure parts of explosion-proof enclosures. Special fastenings designed to prevent loosening will be acceptable in lieu of lockwashers, provided MSHA determines them to be equally effective.

(c) Fastenings shall be as uniform in size as practicable to preclude improper assembly.

(d) Holes for fastenings shall not penetrate to the interior of an explosion-proof enclosure, except as provided in paragraph (a)(9) of ยง 18.34, and shall be threaded to insure that a specified bolt or screw will not bottom even if its lockwasher is omitted.

(e) A minimum of-inch of stock shall be left at the center of the bottom of each hole drilled for fastenings.

(f) Fastenings used for joints on explosion-proof enclosures shall not be used for attaching nonessential parts or for making electrical connections.

(g) The acceptable sizes for and spacings of fastenings shall be determined by the size of the enclosure, as indicated in ยง 18.31.

(h) MSHA reserves the right to conduct explosion tests with standard bolts, nuts, cap screws, or studs substituted for any special high-tensile strength fastening(s) specified by the applicant.

(i) Coil-thread inserts, if used in holes for fastenings, shall meet the following:

(1) The inserts shall have internal screw threads.

(2) The holes for the inserts shall be drilled and tapped consistent with the insert manufacturer's specifications.

(3) The inserts shall be installed consistent with the insert manufacturer's specifications.

(4) The insert shall be of sufficient length to ensure the minimum thread engagement of fastening specified in ยง 18.31(a)(6) of this part.
