
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Naming and Identifying Facilities and Wells (Does Not Include MODUs)
####### ยง 250.154 What identification signs must I display?

(a) You must identify all facilities, artificial islands, and mobile offshore drilling units with a sign maintained in a legible condition.

(1) You must display an identification sign that can be viewed from the waterline on at least one side of the platform. The sign must use at least 3-inch letters and figures.

(2) When helicopter landing facilities are present, you must display an additional identification sign that is visible from the air. The sign must use at least 12-inch letters and figures and must also display the weight capacity of the helipad unless noted on the top of the helipad. If this sign is visible to both helicopter and boat traffic, then the sign in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not required.

(3) Your identification sign must:

(i) List the name of the lessee or designated operator;

(ii) In the GOM OCS Region, list the area designation or abbreviation and the block number of the facility location as depicted on OCS Official Protraction Diagrams or leasing maps;

(iii) In the Pacific OCS Region, list the lease number on which the facility is located; and

(iv) List the name of the platform, structure, artificial island, or mobile offshore drilling unit.

(b) You must identify singly completed wells and multiple completions as follows:

(1) For each singly completed well, list the lease number and well number on the wellhead or on a sign affixed to the wellhead;

(2) For wells with multiple completions, downhole splitter wells, and multilateral wells, identify each completion in addition to the well name and lease number individually on the well flowline at the wellhead; and

(3) For subsea wells that flow individually into separate pipelines, affix the required sign on the pipeline or surface flowline dedicated to that subsea well at a convenient location on the receiving platform. For multiple subsea wells that flow into a common pipeline or pipelines, no sign is required.
