
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Suspensions
####### ยง 250.177 What additional requirements may the Regional Supervisor order for a suspension?

If BSEE grants or directs a suspension under paragraph ยง 250.172(b), the Regional Supervisor may require you to:

(a) Conduct a site-specific study.

(1) The Regional Supervisor must approve or prescribe the scope for any site-specific study that you perform.

(2) The study must evaluate the cause of the hazard, the potential damage, and the available mitigation measures.

(3) You must pay for the study unless you request, and the Regional Supervisor agrees to arrange, payment by another party.

(4) You must furnish copies and results of the study to the Regional Supervisor.

(5) BSEE will make the results available to other interested parties and to the public.

(6) The Regional Supervisor will use the results of the study and any other information that becomes available:

(i) To decide if the suspension can be lifted; and

(ii) To determine any actions that you must take to mitigate or avoid any damage to the environment, life, or property.

(b) Submit a revised Exploration Plan (including any required mitigating measures);

(c) Submit a revised Development and Production Plan (including any required mitigating measures); or

(d) Submit a revised Development Operations Coordination Document according to 30 CFR part 550, subpart B.
