
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Information and Reporting Requirements
####### ยง 250.188 What incidents must I report to BSEE and when must I report them?

(a) You must report the following incidents to the District Manager immediately via oral communication, and provide a written follow-up report (hard copy or electronically transmitted) within 15 calendar days after the incident:

(1) All fatalities.

(2) All injuries that require the evacuation of the injured person(s) from the facility to shore or to another offshore facility.

(3) All losses of well control. "Loss of well control" means:

(i) Uncontrolled flow of formation or other fluids. The flow may be to an exposed formation (an underground blowout) or at the surface (a surface blowout);

(ii) Flow through a diverter; or

(iii) Uncontrolled flow resulting from a failure of surface equipment or procedures.

(4) All fires and explosions.

(5) All reportable releases of hydrogen sulfide (HS) gas, as defined in ยง 250.490(l).

(6) All collisions that result in property or equipment damage greater than $25,000. "Collision" means the act of a moving vessel (including an aircraft) striking another vessel, or striking a stationary vessel or object (e.g., a boat striking a drilling rig or platform). "Property or equipment damage" means the cost of labor and material to restore all affected items to their condition before the damage, including, but not limited to, the OCS facility, a vessel, helicopter, or equipment. It does not include the cost of salvage, cleaning, gas-freeing, dry docking, or demurrage.

(7) All incidents involving structural damage to an OCS facility. "Structural damage" means damage severe enough so that operations on the facility cannot continue until repairs are made.

(8) All incidents involving crane or personnel/material handling operations.

(9) All incidents that damage or disable safety systems or equipment (including firefighting systems).

(b) You must provide a written report of the following incidents to the District Manager within 15 calendar days after the incident:

(1) Any injuries that result in one or more days away from work or one or more days on restricted work or job transfer. One or more days means the injured person was not able to return to work or to all of their normal duties the day after the injury occurred;

(2) All gas releases that initiate equipment or process shutdown;

(3) All incidents that require operations personnel on the facility to muster for evacuation for reasons not related to weather or drills;

(4) All other incidents, not listed in paragraph (a) of this section, resulting in property or equipment damage greater than $25,000.

(c) On the Arctic OCS, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you must provide to the BSEE inspector on location, if one is present, or to the Regional Supervisor, both of the following:

(1) An immediate oral report if any of the following occur:

(i) Any sea ice movement or condition that has the potential to affect your operation or trigger ice management activities;

(ii) The start and termination of ice management activities; or

(iii) Any "kicks" or operational issues that are unexpected and could result in the loss of well control.

(2) Within 24 hours after completing ice management activities, a written report of such activities that conforms to the content requirements in ยง 250.190.
