
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Information and Reporting Requirements
####### ยง 250.191 How does BSEE conduct incident investigations?

Any investigation that BSEE conducts under the authority of sections 22(d)(1) and (2) of the Act (43 U.S.C. 1348(d)(1) and (2)) is a fact-finding proceeding with no adverse parties. The purpose of the investigation is to prepare a public report that determines the cause or causes of the incident. The investigation may involve panel meetings conducted by a chairperson appointed by BSEE. The following requirements apply to any panel meetings involving persons giving testimony:

(a) A person giving testimony may have legal or other representative(s) present to provide advice or counsel while the person is giving testimony. The chairperson may require a verbatim transcript to be made of all oral testimony. The chairperson also may accept a sworn written statement in lieu of oral testimony.

(b) Only panel members, and any experts the panel deems necessary, may address questions to any person giving testimony.

(c) The chairperson may issue subpoenas to persons to appear and provide testimony or documents at a panel meeting. A subpoena may not require a person to attend a panel meeting held at a location more than 100 miles from where a subpoena is served.

(d) Any person giving testimony may request compensation for mileage, and fees for services, within 90 days after the panel meeting. The compensated expenses must be similar to mileage and fees the U.S. District Courts allow.
