
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General
###### Information and Reporting Requirements
####### ยง 250.192 What reports and statistics must I submit relating to a hurricane, earthquake, or other natural occurrence?

(a) You must submit evacuation statistics to the Regional Supervisor for a natural occurrence, such as a hurricane, a tropical storm, or an earthquake. Statistics include facilities and rigs evacuated and the amount of production shut-in for gas and oil. You must:

(1) Submit the statistics by fax or e-mail (for activities in the BSEE GOM OCS Region, use Form BSEE-0132) as soon as possible when evacuation occurs. In lieu of submitting your statistics by fax or e-mail, you may submit them electronically in accordance with 30 CFR 250.186(a)(3);

(2) Submit the statistics on a daily basis by 11 a.m., as conditions allow, during the period of shut-in and evacuation;

(3) Inform BSEE when you resume production; and

(4) Submit the statistics either by BSEE district, or the total figures for your operations in a BSEE region.

(b) If your facility, production equipment, or pipeline is damaged by a natural occurrence, you must:

(1) Submit an initial damage report to the Regional Supervisor within 48 hours after you complete your initial evaluation of the damage. You must use Form BSEE-0143, Facility/Equipment Damage Report, to make this and all subsequent reports. In lieu of submitting Form BSEE-0143 by fax or e-mail, you may submit the damage report electronically in accordance with 30 CFR 250.186(a)(3). In the report, you must:

(i) Name the items damaged (e.g., platform or other structure, production equipment, pipeline);

(ii) Describe the damage and assess the extent of the damage (major, medium, minor); and

(iii) Estimate the time it will take to replace or repair each damaged structure and piece of equipment and return it to service. The initial estimate need not be provided on the form until availability of hardware and repair capability has been established (not to exceed 30 days from your initial report).

(2) Submit subsequent reports monthly and immediately whenever information submitted in previous reports changes until the damaged structure or equipment is returned to service. In the final report, you must provide the date the item was returned to service.
