
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.34 Motors.
####### General.

(a)(1) Motors shall have explosion-proof enclosures.

(2) Motors submitted to MSHA for test shall be equipped with unshielded bearings regardless of whether that type of bearing is specified.

(3) MSHA reserves the right to test motors with the maximum clearance specified between the shaft and the mating part which forms the required flame-arresting path. Also reserved is the right to remachine these parts, at the applicant's expense, to specified dimensions to provide the maximum clearance.

(4) Ball and roller bearings and oil seals will not be acceptable as flame-arresting paths; therefore, a separate path shall be provided between the shaft and another part, preferably inby the bearing. The length and clearances of such flame-arresting path shall conform to the requirements of ยง 18.31.

(5) Labyrinths or other arrangements that provide change(s) in direction of escaping gases will be acceptable but the use of small detachable pieces shall not be permitted unless structurally unavoidable. The lengths of flame-arresting path(s) and clearance(s) shall conform to the requirements of ยง 18.31.

(6) Oil seals shall be removed from motors prior to submission for explosion tests.

(7) Openings for filling and draining bearing lubricants shall be so located as to prevent escape of flame through them.

(8) An outer bearing cap will not be considered as forming any part of a flame-arresting path unless the cap is used as a bearing cartridge.

(9) If unavoidable, holes may be made through motor casings for bolts, studs, or screws to hold essential parts such as pole pieces, brush rigging, and bearing cartridges. Such parts shall be attached to the casing by at least two fastenings. The threaded holes in these parts shall be blind, unless the fastenings are inserted from the inside, in which case the fastenings shall not be accessible with the armature of the motor in place.
