
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.35 Portable (trailing) cables and cords.

(a) Portable cables and cords used to conduct electrical energy to face equipment shall conform to the following:

(1) Have each conductor of a current-carrying capacity consistent with the Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association (IPCEA) standards. (See Tables 1 and 2 in Appendix I.)

(2) Have current-carrying conductors not smaller than No. 14 (AWG). Cords with sizes 14 to 10 (AWG) conductors shall be constructed with heavy jackets, the diameters of which are given in Table 6 in Appendix I.

(3) Be accepted as flame resistant under this part or approved under subpart K of part 7 of this chapter.

(4) Have short-circuit protection at the outby (circuit-connecting) end of ungrounded conductors. (See Table 8 in Appendix I.) The fuse rating or trip setting shall be included in the assembler's specifications.

(5) Ordinarily the length of a portable (trailing) cable shall not exceed 500 feet. Where the method of mining requires the length of a portable (trailing) cable to be more than 500 feet, such length of cable shall be permitted only under the following prescribed conditions:

(i) The lengths of portable (trailing) cables shall not exceed those specified in Table 9, Appendix I, titled "Specifications for Portable Cables Longer Than 500 Feet."

(ii) Short-circuit protection shall be provided by a protective device with an instantaneous trip setting as near as practicable to the maximum starting-current-inrush value, but the setting shall not exceed the trip value specified in MSHA approval for the equipment for which the portable (trailing) cable furnishes electric power.

(6) Have nominal outside dimensions consistent with IPCEA standards. (See Tables 4, 5, 6, and 7 in Appendix I.)

(7) Have conductors of No. 4 (AWG) minimum for direct-current mobile haulage units or No. 6 (AWG) minimum for alternating-current mobile haulage units.

(8) Have not more than five well-made temporary splices in a single length of portable cable.

(b) Sectionalized portable cables will be acceptable provided the connectors used inby the last open crosscut in a gassy mine meet the requirements of ยง 18.41.

(c) A portable cable having conductors smaller than No. 6 (AWG), when used with a trolley tap and a rail clamp, shall have well insulated single conductors not smaller than No. 6 (AWG) spliced to the outby end of each conductor. All splices shall be made in a workmanlike manner to insure good electrical conductivity, insulation, and mechanical strength.

(d) Suitable provisions shall be made to facilitate disconnection of portable cable quickly and conveniently for replacement.
