
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Oil and Gas Drilling Operations
###### Hydrogen Sulfide
####### ยง 250.490 Hydrogen sulfide.
######## Requirements for submitting an H,S Contingency Plan.

(f)Before you begin operations, you must submit an HS Contingency Plan to the District Manager for approval. Do not begin operations before the District Manager approves your plan. You must keep a copy of the approved plan in the field, and you must follow the plan at all times. Your plan must include:

(1) Safety procedures and rules that you will follow concerning equipment, drills, and smoking;

(2) Training you provide for employees, contractors, and visitors;

(3) Job position and title of the person responsible for the overall safety of personnel;

(4) Other key positions, how these positions fit into your organization, and what the functions, duties, and responsibilities of those job positions are;

(5) Actions that you will take when the concentration of HS in the atmosphere reaches 20 ppm, who will be responsible for those actions, and a description of the audible and visual alarms to be activated;

(6) Briefing areas where personnel will assemble during an HS alert. You must have at least two briefing areas on each facility and use the briefing area that is upwind of the HS source at any given time;

(7) Criteria you will use to decide when to evacuate the facility and procedures you will use to safely evacuate all personnel from the facility by vessel, capsule, or lifeboat. If you use helicopters during HS alerts, describe the types of HS emergencies during which you consider the risk of helicopter activity to be acceptable and the precautions you will take during the flights;

(8) Procedures you will use to safely position all vessels attendant to the facility. Indicate where you will locate the vessels with respect to wind direction. Include the distance from the facility and what procedures you will use to safely relocate the vessels in an emergency;

(9) How you will provide protective-breathing equipment for all personnel, including contractors and visitors;

(10) The agencies and facilities you will notify in case of a release of HS (that constitutes an emergency), how you will notify them, and their telephone numbers. Include all facilities that might be exposed to atmospheric concentrations of 20 ppm or more of HS;

(11) The medical personnel and facilities you will use if needed, their addresses, and telephone numbers;

(12) HS detector locations in production facilities producing gas containing 20 ppm or more of HS. Include an "HS Detector Location Drawing" showing:

(i) All vessels, flare outlets, wellheads, and other equipment handling production containing HS;

(ii) Approximate maximum concentration of HS in the gas stream; and

(iii) Location of all HS sensors included in your contingency plan;

(13) Operational conditions when you expect to flare gas containing HS including the estimated maximum gas flow rate, HS concentration, and duration of flaring;

(14) Your assessment of the risks to personnel during flaring and what precautionary measures you will take;
