
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Oil and Gas Drilling Operations
###### Hydrogen Sulfide
####### ยง 250.490 Hydrogen sulfide.
######## What are the requirements for protective-breathing equipment?

(13)In an area classified as HS present or HS unknown, you must:

(i) Provide all personnel, including contractors and visitors on a facility, with immediate access to self-contained pressure-demand-type respirators with hoseline capability and breathing time of at least 15 minutes.

(ii) Design, select, use, and maintain respirators in conformance with ANSI Z88.2 (as specified in ยง 250.198).

(iii) Make available at least two voice-transmission devices, which can be used while wearing a respirator, for use by designated personnel.

(iv) Make spectacle kits available as needed.

(v) Store protective-breathing equipment in a location that is quickly and easily accessible to all personnel.

(vi) Label all breathing-air bottles as containing breathing-quality air for human use.

(vii) Ensure that vessels attendant to facilities carry appropriate protective-breathing equipment for each crew member. The District Manager may require additional protective-breathing equipment on certain vessels attendant to the facility.

(viii) During HS alerts, limit helicopter flights to and from facilities to the conditions specified in the HS Contingency Plan. During authorized flights, the flight crew and passengers must use pressure-demand-type respirators. You must train all members of flight crews in the use of the particular type(s) of respirator equipment made available.

(ix) As appropriate to the particular operation(s), (production, drilling, well-completion or well-workover operations, or any combination of them), provide a system of breathing-air manifolds, hoses, and masks at the facility and the briefing areas. You must provide a cascade air-bottle system for the breathing-air manifolds to refill individual protective-breathing apparatus bottles. The cascade air-bottle system may be recharged by a high-pressure compressor suitable for providing breathing-quality air, provided the compressor suction is located in an uncontaminated atmosphere.
