
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Oil and Gas Drilling Operations
###### Hydrogen Sulfide
####### ยง 250.490 Hydrogen sulfide.
######## Well testing in a zone known to contain H,S.

(o)When testing a well in a zone with HS present, you must do all of the following:

(1) Before starting a well test, conduct safety meetings for all personnel who will be on the facility during the test. At the meetings, emphasize the use of protective-breathing equipment, first-aid procedures, and the Contingency Plan. Only competent personnel who are trained and are knowledgeable of the hazardous effects of HS must be engaged in these tests.

(2) Perform well testing with the minimum number of personnel in the immediate vicinity of the rig floor and with the appropriate test equipment to safely and adequately perform the test. During the test, you must continuously monitor HS levels.

(3) Not burn produced gases except through a flare which meets the requirements of paragraph (q)(6) of this section. Before flaring gas containing HS, you must activate SOmonitoring equipment in accordance with paragraph (j)(11) of this section. If you detect SOin excess of 2 ppm, you must implement the personnel protective measures in your HS Contingency Plan, required by paragraph (f) of this section. You must also follow the requirements of ยง 250.1164. You must pipe gases from stored test fluids into the flare outlet and burn them.

(4) Use downhole test tools and wellhead equipment suitable for HS service.

(5) Use tubulars suitable for HS service. You must not use drill pipe for well testing without the prior approval of the District Manager. Water cushions must be thoroughly inhibited in order to prevent HS attack on metals. You must flush the test string fluid treated for this purpose after completion of the test.

(6) Use surface test units and related equipment that is designed for HS service.
