
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Oil and Gas Drilling Operations
###### Hydrogen Sulfide
####### ยง 250.490 Hydrogen sulfide.
######## Metallurgical properties of equipment.

(p)When operating in a zone with HS present, you must use equipment that is constructed of materials with metallurgical properties that resist or prevent sulfide stress cracking (also known as hydrogen embrittlement, stress corrosion cracking, or HS embrittlement), chloride-stress cracking, hydrogen-induced cracking, and other failure modes. You must do all of the following:

(1) Use tubulars and other equipment, casing, tubing, drill pipe, couplings, flanges, and related equipment that is designed for HS service.

(2) Use BOP system components, wellhead, pressure-control equipment, and related equipment exposed to HS-bearing fluids in conformance with NACE Standard MR0175-03 (as specified in ยง 250.198).

(3) Use temporary downhole well-security devices such as retrievable packers and bridge plugs that are designed for HS service.

(4) When producing in zones bearing HS, use equipment constructed of materials capable of resisting or preventing sulfide stress cracking.

(5) Keep the use of welding to a minimum during the installation or modification of a production facility. Welding must be done in a manner that ensures resistance to sulfide stress cracking.
