
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.47 Voltage limitation.

(a) A tool or switch held in the operator's hand or supported against his body will not be approved with a nameplate rating exceeding 300 volts direct current or alternating current.

(b) A battery-powered machine shall not have a nameplate rating exceeding 240 volts, nominal (120 lead-acid cells or equivalent).

(c) Other direct-current machines shall not have a nameplate rating exceeding 550 volts.

(d) An alternating-current machine shall not have a nameplate rating exceeding 660 volts, except that a machine may have a nameplate rating greater than 660 volts but not exceeding 4,160 volts when the following conditions are complied with:

(1) Adequate clearances and insulation for the particular voltage(s) are provided in the design and construction of the equipment, its wiring, and accessories.

(2) A continuously monitored, failsafe grounding system is provided that will maintain the frame of the equipment and the frames of all accessory equipment at ground potential. Also, the equipment, including its controls and portable (trailing) cable, will be deenergized automatically upon the occurrence of an incipient ground fault. The ground-fault-tripping current shall be limited by grounding resistor(s) to that necessary for dependable relaying. The maximum ground-fault-tripping current shall not exceed 25 amperes.

(3) All high voltage switch gear and control for equipment having a nameplate rating exceeding 1,000 volts are located remotely and operated by remote control at the main equipment. Potential for remote control shall not exceed 120 volts.

(4) Portable (trailing) cable for equipment with nameplate ratings from 661 volts through 1,000 volts shall include grounding conductors, a ground check conductor, and grounded metallic shields around each power conductor or a grounded metallic shield over the assembly; except that on machines employing cable reels, cables without shields may be used if the insulation is rated 2,000 volts or more.

(5) Portable (trailing) cable for equipment with nameplate ratings from 1,001 volts through 4,160 volts shall include grounding conductors, a ground check conductor, and grounded metallic shields around each power conductor.

(6) MSHA reserves the right to require additional safeguards for high-voltage equipment, or modify the requirements to recognize improved technology.
