
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.48 Circuit-interrupting devices.

(a) Each machine shall be equipped with a circuit-interrupting device by means of which all power conductors can be deenergized at the machine. A manually operated controller will not be acceptable as a service switch.

(b) When impracticable to mount the main-circuit-interrupting device on a machine, a remote enclosure will be acceptable. When contacts are used as a main-circuit-interrupting device, a means for opening the circuit shall be provided at the machine and at the remote contactors.

(c) Separate two-pole switches shall be provided to deenergize power conductors for headlights or floodlights.

(d) Each handheld tool shall be provided with a two-pole switch of the "dead-man-control" type that must be held closed by hand and will open when hand pressure is released.

(e) A machine designed to operate from both trolley wire and portable cable shall be provided with a transfer switch, or equivalent, which prevents energizing one from the other. Such a switch shall be designed to prevent electrical connection to the machine frame when the cable is energized.

(f) Belt conveyors shall be equipped with control switches to automatically stop the driving motor in the event the belt is stopped, or abnormally slowed down.
