
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Oil and Gas Well-Completion Operations
###### § 250.513 Approval and reporting of well-completion operations.

(a) No well-completion operation may begin until the lessee receives written approval from the District Manager. If completion is planned and the data are available at the time you submit the Application for Permit to Drill and Supplemental APD Information Sheet (Forms BSEE-0123 and BSEE-0123S), you may request approval for a well-completion on those forms (see §§ 250.410 through 250.418 of this part). If the District Manager has not approved the completion or if the completion objective or plans have significantly changed, you must submit an Application for Permit to Modify (Form BSEE-0124) for approval of such operations.

(b) You must submit the following with Form BSEE-0124 (or with Form BSEE-0123; Form BSEE-0123S):

(1) A brief description of the well-completion procedures to be followed, a statement of the expected surface pressure, and type and weight of completion fluids;

(2) A schematic drawing of the well showing the proposed producing zone(s) and the subsurface well-completion equipment to be used;

(3) For multiple completions, a partial electric log showing the zones proposed for completion, if logs have not been previously submitted;

(4) All applicable information required in § 250.731.

(5) When the well-completion is in a zone known to contain HS or a zone where the presence of HS is unknown, information pursuant to § 250.490 of this part; and

(6) Payment of the service fee listed in § 250.125.

(c) Within 30 days after completion, you must submit to the District Manager an End of Operations Report (Form BSEE-0125), including a schematic of the tubing and subsurface equipment.

(d) You must submit public information copies of Form BSEE-0125 according to § 250.186.
