
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.50 Protection against external arcs and sparks.

Provision shall be made for maintaining the frames of all off-track machines and the enclosures of related detached components at safe voltages by using one or a combination of the following:

(a) A separate conductor(s) in the portable cable in addition to the power conductors by which the machine frame can be connected to an acceptable grounding medium, and a separate conductor in all cables connecting related components not on a common chassis. The cross-sectional area of the additional conductor(s) shall not be less than 50 percent of that of one power conductor unless a ground-fault tripping relay is used, in which case the minimum size may be No. 8 (AWG). Cables smaller than No. 6 (AWG) shall have an additional conductor(s) of the same size as one power conductor.

(b) A means of actuating a circuit-interrupting device, preferably at the outby end of the portable cable.

(c) A device(s) such as a diode(s) of adequate peak inverse voltage rating and current-carrying capacity to conduct possible fault current through the grounded power conductor. Diode installations shall include: (1) An overcurrent device in series with the diode, the contacts of which are in the machine's control circuit; and (2) a blocking diode in the control circuit to prevent operation of the machine with the polarity reversed.
