
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart F - Oil and Gas Well-Workover Operations
###### § 250.613 Approval and reporting for well-workover operations.

(a) No well-workover operation except routine ones, as defined in § 250.601 of this part, shall begin until the lessee receives written approval from the District Manager. Approval for these operations must be requested on Form BSEE-0124, Application for Permit to Modify.

(b) You must submit the following with Form BSEE-0124:

(1) A brief description of the well-workover procedures to be followed, a statement of the expected surface pressure, and type and weight of workover fluids;

(2) When changes in existing subsurface equipment are proposed, a schematic drawing of the well showing the zone proposed for workover and the workover equipment to be used;

(3) All information required in § 250.731.

(4) Where the well-workover is in a zone known to contain HS or a zone where the presence of H2S is unknown, information pursuant to § 250.490 of this part; and

(5) Payment of the service fee listed in § 250.125.

(c) The following additional information shall be submitted with Form BSEE-0124 if completing to a new zone is proposed:

(1) Reason for abandonment of present producing zone including supportive well test data, and

(2) A statement of anticipated or known pressure data for the new zone.

(d) Within 30 days after completing the well-workover operation, except routine operations, Form BSEE-0124, Application for Permit to Modify, shall be submitted to the District Manager, showing the work as performed. In the case of a well-workover operation resulting in the initial recompletion of a well into a new zone, a Form BSEE-0125, End of Operations Report, shall be submitted to the District Manager and shall include a new schematic of the tubing subsurface equipment if any subsurface equipment has been changed.
