
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart F - Oil and Gas Well-Workover Operations
###### ยง 250.614 Well-control fluids, equipment, and operations.

The following requirements apply during all well-workover operations with the tree removed:

(a) Well-control fluids, equipment, and operations shall be designed, utilized, maintained, and/or tested as necessary to control the well in foreseeable conditions and circumstances, including subfreezing conditions. The well shall be continuously monitored during well-workover operations and shall not be left unattended at anytime unless the well is shut in and secured.

(b) When coming out of the hole with drill pipe or a workover string, the annulus shall be filled with well-control fluid before the change in such fluid level decreases the hydrostatic pressure 75 pounds per square inch (psi) or every five stands of drill pipe or workover string, whichever gives a lower decrease in hydrostatic pressure. The number of stands of drill pipe or workover string and drill collars that may be pulled prior to filling the hole and the equivalent well-control fluid volume shall be calculated and posted near the operator's station. A mechanical, volumetric, or electronic device for measuring the amount of well-control fluid required to fill the hold shall be utilized.

(c) The following well-control-fluid equipment shall be installed, maintained, and utilized:

(1) A fill-up line above the uppermost BOP;

(2) A well-control, fluid-volume measuring device for determining fluid volumes when filling the hole on trips; and

(3) A recording mud-pit-level indicator to determine mud-pit-volume gains and losses. This indicator shall include both a visual and an audible warning device.
