
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart F - Oil and Gas Well-Workover Operations
###### § 250.619 Tubing and wellhead equipment.

The lessee shall comply with the following requirements during well-workover operations with the tree removed:

(a) No tubing string shall be placed in service or continue to be used unless such tubing string has the necessary strength and pressure integrity and is otherwise suitable for its intended use.

(b) When reinstalling the tree, you must:

(1) Equip wells to monitor for casing pressure according to the following chart:

(2) Follow the casing pressure management requirements in subpart E of this part.

(c) Wellhead, tree, and related equipment shall have a pressure rating greater than the shut-in tubing pressure and shall be designed, installed, used, maintained, and tested so as to achieve and maintain pressure control. The tree shall be equipped with a minimum of one master valve and one surface safety valve in the vertical run of the tree when it is reinstalled.

(d) Subsurface safety equipment must be installed, maintained, and tested in compliance with the applicable sections in §§ 250.810 through 250.839.

(e) If you pull and reinstall packers and bridge plugs, you must meet the following requirements:

(1) The uppermost permanently installed packer and all permanently installed bridge plugs qualified as mechanical barriers must comply with ANSI/API Spec. 11D1 (as incorporated by reference in § 250.198).

(2) The production packer must be set at a depth that will allow for a column of weighted fluids to be placed above the packer that will exert a hydrostatic force greater than or equal to the force created by the reservoir pressure below the packer;

(3) The production packer must be set as close as practically possible to the perforated interval; and

(4) The production packer must be set at a depth that is within the cemented interval of the selected casing section.

(f) Your APM must include a description and calculations for how you determined the production packer setting depth.

(g) You must have two independent barriers, one being mechanical, in the exposed center wellbore prior to removing the tree and/or well control equipment.
