
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 18.51 Electrical protection of circuits and equipment.

(a) An automatic circuit-interrupting device(s) shall be used to protect each ungrounded conductor of a branch circuit at the junction with the main circuit when the branch-circuit conductor(s) has a current carrying capacity less than 50 percent of the main circuit conductor(s), unless the protective device(s) in the main circuit will also provide adequate protection for the branch circuit. The setting of each device shall be specified. For headlight and control circuits, each conductor shall be protected by a fuse or equivalent. Any circuit that is entirely contained in an explosion-proof enclosure shall be exempt from these requirements.

(b) Each motor shall be protected by an automatic overcurrent device. One protective device will be acceptable when two motors of the same rating operate simultaneously and perform virtually the same duty.

(1) If the overcurrent-protective device in a direct-current circuit does not open both lines, particular attention shall be given to marking the polarity at the terminals or otherwise preventing the possibility of reversing connections which would result in changing the circuit interrupter to the grounded line.

(2) Three-phase alternating-current motors shall have an overcurrent-protective device in at least two phases such that actuation of a device in one phase will cause the opening of all three phases.

(c) Circuit-interrupting devices shall be so designed that they can be reset without opening the compartment in which they are enclosed.

(d) All magnetic circuit-interrupting devices shall be mounted in a manner to preclude the possibility of their closing by gravity.
