
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart G - Well Operations and Equipment
###### Rig Requirements
####### ยง 250.712 What rig unit movements must I report?

(a) You must report the movement of all rig units on and off locations to the District Manager using Form BSEE-0144, Rig Movement Notification Report. Rig units include MODUs, platform rigs, snubbing units, wire-line units used for non-routine operations, and coiled tubing units. You must inform the District Manager 24 hours before:

(1) The arrival of a rig unit on location;

(2) The movement of a rig unit to another slot. For movements that will occur less than 24 hours after initially moving onto location (e.g., coiled tubing and batch operations), you may include your anticipated movement schedule on Form BSEE-0144; or

(3) The departure of a rig unit from the location.

(b) You must provide the District Manager with the rig name, lease number, well number, and expected time of arrival or departure.

(c) If a MODU or platform rig is to be warm or cold stacked, you must inform the District Manager:

(1) Where the MODU or platform rig is coming from;

(2) The location where the MODU or platform rig will be positioned;

(3) Whether the MODU or platform rig will be manned or unmanned; and

(4) If the location for stacking the MODU or platform rig changes.

(d) Prior to resuming operations after stacking, you must notify the appropriate District Manager of any construction, repairs, or modifications associated with the drilling package made to the MODU or platform rig.

(e) If a drilling rig is entering OCS waters, you must inform the District Manager where the drilling rig is coming from.

(f) If you change your anticipated date for initially moving on or off location by more than 24 hours, you must submit an updated Form BSEE-0144, Rig Movement Notification Report.

(g) You are not required to report rig unit movements to and from the safe zone during the course of permitted operations.

(h) If a rig unit is already on a well, you are not required to report any additional rig unit movements on that well.
