
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart G - Well Operations and Equipment
###### Rig Requirements
####### ยง 250.715 Do I need a global positioning system (GPS) for all MODUs?

All MODUs must have a minimum of two functioning GPS transponders at all times, and you must provide to BSEE real-time access to the GPS data prior to and during each hurricane season.

(a) The GPS must be capable of monitoring the position and tracking the path in real-time if the MODU moves from its location during a severe storm.

(b) You must install and protect the tracking system's equipment to minimize the risk of the system being disabled.

(c) You must place the GPS transponders in different locations for redundancy to minimize risk of system failure.

(d) Each GPS transponder must be capable of transmitting data for at least 7 days after a storm has passed.

(e) If the MODU is moved off location in the event of a storm, you must immediately begin to record the GPS location data.

(f) You must contact the Regional Office and allow real-time access to the MODU location data. When you contact the Regional Office, provide the following:

(1) Name of the lessee and operator with contact information;

(2) MODU name;

(3) Initial date and time; and

(4) How you will provide GPS real-time access.
