
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart G - Well Operations and Equipment
###### Blowout Preventer (BOP) System Requirements
####### § 250.734 What are the requirements for a subsea BOP system?

(a) When you drill or conduct operations with a subsea BOP system, you must install the BOP system before drilling to deepen the well below the surface casing or before conducting operations if the well is already deepened beyond the surface casing point. The District Manager may require you to install a subsea BOP system before drilling or conducting operations below the conductor casing if proposed casing setting depths or local geology indicate the need. The following table outlines your requirements.

(b) If you suspend operations to make repairs to any part of the subsea BOP system, you must stop operations at a safe downhole location. Before resuming operations you must:

(1) Submit a revised permit with a written statement from an independent third party documenting the repairs and certifying that the previous certification in § 250.731(c) remains valid;

(2) Upon relatch of the BOP, perform an initial subsea BOP test in accordance with § 250.737(d)(4), including deadman in accordance with § 250.737(d)(12)(vi). If repairs take longer than 30 days, once the BOP is on deck, you must test in accordance with the requirements of § 250.737;

(3) Upon relatch of the LMRP, you must test according to the following:

(i) Pressure test riser connector/gasket in accordance with § 250.737(b) and (c);

(ii) Pressure test choke and kill stabs at LMRP/BOP interface in accordance with § 250.737(b) and (c);

(iii) Full function test of both pods and both control panels;

(iv) Verify acoustic pod communication (if equipped); and

(v) Deadman test with pressure test in accordance with § 250.737(d)(12)(vi).

(4) Receive approval from the District Manager.

(c) If you plan to drill a new well with a subsea BOP, you do not need to submit with your APD the verifications required by this subpart for the open water drilling operation. Before drilling out the surface casing, you must submit for approval a revised APD, including the verifications required in this subpart.
