
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart G - Well Operations and Equipment
###### Blowout Preventer (BOP) System Requirements
####### ยง 250.737 What are the BOP system testing requirements?
######## Pressure test frequency.

(a)You must pressure test your BOP system:

(1) When installed;

(2) Before 14 days have elapsed since your last BOP pressure test, or 30 days since your last blind shear ram BOP pressure test. You must begin to test your BOP system before midnight on the 14th day (or 30th day for your blind shear rams) following the conclusion of the previous test;

(3) Before drilling out each string of casing or a liner. You may omit this pressure test requirement if you did not remove the BOP stack to run the casing string or liner, the required BOP test pressures for the next section of the hole are not greater than the test pressures for the previous BOP test, and the time elapsed between tests has not exceeded 14 days (or 30 days for blind shear rams). You must indicate in your APD which casing strings and liners meet these criteria;

(4) In lieu of meeting the schedule established in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you may request that BSEE approve a 21-day BOP testing frequency. To obtain BSEE approval, you must submit a request to the appropriate BSEE Regional Supervisor, District Field Operations. Your request must demonstrate that you have developed a BOP health monitoring plan that includes certain system capabilities. As long as your plan is consistent with recognized engineering and industry practice, BSEE will approve your request if it includes the following:

(i) Condition monitoring tools, including continuous surveillance of sensor readings from the BOP control system, real-time condition analysis and displays, functional pressure signal analysis, historical sensor data;

(ii) Failure propagation analysis;

(iii) A failure tracking and resolution system that includes detailed failure reports and identification of recurring problems; and

(iv) Submission of quarterly reports of the data collected pursuant to paragraphs (a)(4)(i)(iii) to the BSEE Regional Supervisor, District Field Operations.

(5) The District Manager may require more frequent testing if conditions or your BOP performance warrant.
