
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart G - Well Operations and Equipment
###### Records and Reporting
####### ยง 250.746 What are the recordkeeping requirements for casing, liner, and BOP tests, and inspections of BOP systems and marine risers?

You must record the time, date, and results of all casing and liner pressure tests. You must also record pressure tests, actuations, and inspections of the BOP system, system components, and marine riser in the daily report described in ยง 250.740. In addition, you must:

(a) Record test pressures on pressure charts or digital recorders;

(b) Require your onsite lessee representative, designated rig or contractor representative, and pump operator to sign and date the pressure charts or digital recordings and daily reports as correct;

(c) Document on the daily report the sequential order of BOP and auxiliary equipment testing and the pressure and duration of each test. For subsea BOP systems, you must also record the closing times for annular and ram BOPs. You may reference a BOP test plan if it is available at the facility;

(d) Identify on the daily report the control station and pod used during the test (identifying the pod does not apply to coiled tubing and snubbing units);

(e) Identify on the daily report any problems or irregularities observed during BOP system testing and record actions taken to remedy the problems or irregularities. Any leaks associated with the BOP or control system during testing must be documented in the WAR. If any problems that cannot be resolved promptly are observed during testing, operations must be suspended until the District Manager determines that you may continue; and

(f) Retain all records, including pressure charts, daily reports, and referenced documents pertaining to tests, actuations, and inspections at the rig unit for the duration of the operation. After completion of the operation, you must retain all the records listed in this section for a period of 2 years at the rig unit. You must also retain the records at the lessee's field office nearest the facility or at another location available to BSEE. You must make all the records available to BSEE upon request.
