
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### Surface and Subsurface Safety Systems - Dry Trees
####### ยง 250.814 Design, installation, and operation of SSSVs - dry trees.

You must design, install, and operate (including repair, maintain, and test) an SSSV to ensure its reliable operation.

(a) You must install the SSSV at a depth at least 100 feet below the mudline within 2 days after production is established. When warranted by conditions such as permafrost, unstable bottom conditions, hydrate formation, or paraffin problems, the District Manager may approve an alternate setting depth on a case-by-case basis.

(b) The well must not be open to flow while the SSSV is inoperable, except when flowing the well is necessary for a particular operation such as cutting paraffin or performing other routine operations as defined in ยง 250.601.

(c) Until the SSSV is installed, the well must be attended in the immediate vicinity so that any necessary emergency actions can be taken while the well is open to flow. During testing and inspection procedures, the well must not be left unattended while open to production unless you have installed a properly operating SSSV in the well.

(d) You must design, install, maintain, inspect, repair, and test all SSSVs in accordance with ANSI/API RP 14B (incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198). For additional SSSV testing requirements, refer to ยง 250.880.
