
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### Surface and Subsurface Safety Systems - Dry Trees
####### § 250.817 Temporary removal of subsurface safety devices for routine operations.

(a) You may remove a wireline- or pumpdown-retrievable subsurface safety device without further authorization or notice, for a routine operation that does not require BSEE approval of a Form BSEE-0124, Application for Permit to Modify (APM). For a list of these routine operations, see § 250.601. The removal period must not exceed 15 days.

(b) Prior to removal, you must identify the well by placing a sign on the wellhead stating that the subsurface safety device was removed. You must note the removal of the subsurface safety device in the records required by § 250.890. If the master valve is open, you must ensure that a trained person (see § 250.891) is in the immediate vicinity to attend the well and take any necessary emergency actions.

(c) You must monitor a platform well when a subsurface safety device has been removed, but a person does not need to remain in the well-bay area continuously if the master valve is closed. If the well is on a satellite structure, it must be attended by a support vessel, or a pump-through plug must be installed in the tubing at least 100 feet below the mudline and the master valve must be closed, unless otherwise approved by the appropriate District Manager.

(d) You must not allow the well to flow while the subsurface safety device is removed, except when it is necessary for the particular operation for which the SSSV is removed. The provisions of this paragraph are not applicable to the testing and inspection procedures specified in § 250.880.
