
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### Subsea and Subsurface Safety Systems - Subsea Trees
####### ยง 250.838 What are the maximum allowable valve closure times and hydraulic bleeding requirements for an electro-hydraulic control system?

(a) If you have an electro-hydraulic control system, you must:

(1) Design the subsea control system to meet the valve closure times listed in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section or your approved DWOP; and

(2) Verify the valve closure times upon installation. The District Manager may require you to verify the closure time of the USV(s) through visual authentication by diver or ROV.

(b) You must comply with the maximum allowable valve closure times and hydraulic system bleeding requirements listed in the following table or your approved DWOP as long as communication is maintained with the platform or with the MODU or other type of workover vessel:

(c) If you have an electro-hydraulic control system and experience a loss of communications (EH Loss of Comms), you must comply with the following:

(1) If you can meet the EH Loss of Comms valve closure timing conditions specified in the table in paragraph (d) of this section, you must notify the appropriate District Office within 12 hours of detecting the loss of communication.

(2) If you cannot meet the EH Loss of Comms valve closure timing conditions specified in the table in paragraph (d) of this section, you must notify the appropriate District Office immediately after detecting the loss of communication. You must shut-in production by initiating a bleed of the low pressure (LP) hydraulic system or the high pressure (HP) hydraulic system within 120 minutes after loss of communication. You must bleed the other hydraulic system within 180 minutes after loss of communication.

(3) You must obtain approval from the appropriate District Manager before continuing to produce after loss of communication when you cannot meet the EH Loss of Comms valve closure times specified in the table in paragraph (d) of this section. In your request, include an alternate valve closure timing table that your system is able to achieve. The appropriate District Manager may also approve an alternate hydraulic bleed schedule to allow for hydrate mitigation and orderly shut-in.

(d) If you experience a loss of communications, you must comply with the maximum allowable valve closure times and hydraulic system bleeding requirements listed in the following table or your approved DWOP:
