
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### PRODUCTION SAFETY SYSTEMS
####### ยง 250.842 Approval of safety systems design and installation features.

(a) Before you install or modify a production safety system, you must submit a production safety system application to the District Manager. The District Manager must approve your production safety system application before you commence production through or otherwise use the new or modified system. The application must include the design documentation prescribed as follows:

(b) You must develop and maintain the following design documents and make them available to BSEE upon request:

(c) In the production safety system application, you must also certify the following:

(1) That all electrical systems were designed according to API RP 14F or API RP 14FZ, as applicable (incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198);

(2) That the design documents for the mechanical and electrical systems that you are required to submit under paragraph (a) of this section are sealed by a licensed professional engineer. For modified systems, only the modifications are required to be sealed by a licensed professional engineer(s). The professional engineer must be licensed in a State or Territory of the United States and have sufficient expertise and experience to perform the duties; and

(3) That a hazards analysis was performed in accordance with ยง 250.1911 and API RP 14J (incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198), and that you have a hazards analysis program in place to assess potential hazards during the operation of the facility.

(d) Within 90 days after placing new or modified production safety systems in service, you must submit to the District Manager the as-built diagrams for the new or modified production safety systems outlined in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section. You must certify in an accompanying letter that the as-built design documents have been reviewed for compliance with applicable regulations and accurately represent the new or modified system as installed. The drawings must be clearly marked "as-built."

(e) You must maintain approved and supporting design documents required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section at your offshore field office nearest the OCS facility or at other locations conveniently available to the District Manager. These documents must be made available to BSEE upon request and must be retained for the life of the facility. All approved designs are subject to field verifications.
