
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### Additional Production System Requirements
####### ยง 250.859 Firefighting systems.

(a) On fixed facilities, to protect all areas where production-handling equipment is located, you must install firefighting systems that meet the requirements of this paragraph. You must install a firewater system consisting of rigid pipe with fire hose stations and/or fixed firewater monitors to protect all areas where production-handling equipment is located. Your firewater system must include installation of a fixed water spray system in enclosed well-bay areas where hydrocarbon vapors may accumulate.

(1) Your firewater system must conform to API RP 14G (incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 250.198).

(2) Fuel or power for firewater pump drivers must be available for at least 30 minutes of run time during a platform shut-in. If necessary, you must install an alternate fuel or power supply to provide for this pump operating time unless the District Manager has approved an alternate firefighting system. In addition:

(i) As of September 7, 2017, you must have equipped all new firewater pump drivers with automatic starting capabilities upon activation of the ESD, fusible loop, or other fire detection system.

(ii) For electric-driven firewater pump drivers, to provide for a potential loss of primary power, you must install an automatic transfer switch to cross over to an emergency power source in order to maintain at least 30 minutes of run time. The emergency power source must be reliable and have adequate capacity to carry the locked-rotor currents of the fire pump motor and accessory equipment.

(iii) You must route power cables or conduits with wires installed between the fire water pump drivers and the automatic transfer switch away from hazardous-classified locations that can cause flame impingement. Power cables or conduits with wires that connect to the fire water pump drivers must be capable of maintaining circuit integrity for not less than 30 minutes of flame impingement.

(3) You must post, in a prominent place on the facility, a diagram of the firefighting system showing the location of all firefighting equipment.

(4) For operations in subfreezing climates, you must furnish evidence to the District Manager that the firefighting system is suitable for those conditions.

(5) You must obtain approval from the District Manager before installing any firefighting system.

(6) All firefighting equipment located on a facility must be in good working order whether approved as the primary, secondary, or ancillary firefighting system.

(b) On floating facilities, to protect all areas where production-handling equipment is located, you must install a firewater system consisting of rigid pipe with fire hose stations and/or fixed firewater monitors. You must install a fixed water spray system in enclosed well-bay areas where hydrocarbon vapors may accumulate. Your firewater system must conform to the USCG requirements for firefighting systems on floating facilities.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) and (2) of this section, on fixed and floating facilities, if you are required to maintain a firewater system and the system becomes inoperable, you must shut-in your production operations while making the necessary repairs. For fixed facilities only, you may continue your production operations on a temporary basis while you make the necessary repairs, provided that:

(1) You request that the appropriate District Manager approve the use of a chemical firefighting system on a temporary basis (for a period up to 7 days) while you make the necessary repairs;

(2) If you are unable to complete repairs during the approved time period because of circumstances beyond your control, the District Manager may grant multiple extensions to your previously approved request to use a chemical firefighting system for periods up to 7 days each.
