
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### Additional Production System Requirements
####### ยง 250.860 Chemical firefighting system.

For fixed platforms:

(a) On minor unmanned platforms, you may use a U.S. Coast Guard type and size rating "B-II" portable dry chemical unit (with a minimum UL Rating (US) of 60-B:C) or a 30-pound portable dry chemical unit, in lieu of a water system, as long as you ensure that the unit is available on the platform when personnel are on board.

(1) A minor platform is a structure with zero to five completions and no more than one item of production processing equipment.

(2) An unmanned platform is one that is not attended 24 hours a day or one on which personnel are not quartered overnight.

(b) On major platforms and minor manned platforms, you may use a firefighting system using chemicals-only in lieu of a water-based system if the District Manager determines that the use of a chemical system provides equivalent fire-protection control and would not increase the risk to human safety.

(1) A major platform is a structure with either six or more completions or zero to five completions with more than one item of production processing equipment.

(2) A minor platform is a structure with zero to five completions and no more than one item of production processing equipment.

(3) A manned platform is one that is attended 24 hours a day or one on which personnel are quartered overnight.

(c) On major platforms and minor manned platforms, to obtain approval to use a chemical-only fire prevention and control system in lieu of a water system under paragraph (b) of this section, you must submit to the District Manager:

(1) A justification for asserting that the use of a chemical system provides equivalent fire-protection control. The justification must address fire prevention, fire protection, fire control, and firefighting on the platform; and

(2) A risk assessment demonstrating that a chemical-only system would not increase the risk to human safety. You must provide the following and any other important information in your risk assessment:

(d) On major or minor platforms, if BSEE has approved your request to use a chemical-only fire suppressant system in lieu of a water system under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and if you make an insignificant change to your platform subsequent to that approval, you must document the change and maintain the documentation for the life of the facility at either the facility or nearest field office for BSEE review and/or inspection. Do not submit this documentation to the District Manager. However, if you make a significant change to your platform (e.g., placing a storage vessel with a capacity of 100 barrels or more on the facility, adding production equipment), or if you plan to man an unmanned platform temporarily, you must submit a new request for approval, including an updated risk assessment if previously required, to the appropriate District Manager. You must maintain, for the life of the facility, the most recent documentation that you submitted to BSEE at the facility or nearest field office.
