
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### Additional Production System Requirements
####### § 250.874 Subsea water injection systems.

If you choose to install a subsea water injection system, your system must comply with your approved DWOP, which must meet the following minimum requirements:

(a) Adhere to the water injection requirements described in API RP 14C (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198) for the water injection equipment located on the platform. In accordance with § 250.830, either a surface-controlled SSSV or a water injection valve (WIV) that is self-activated and not controlled by emergency shut-down (ESD) or sensor activation must be installed in a subsea water injection well.

(b) Equip a water injection pipeline with a surface FSV and water injection shutdown valve (WISDV) on the surface facility.

(c) Install a PSHL sensor upstream (in-board) of the FSV and WISDV.

(d) Use subsea tree(s), wellhead(s), connector(s), and tree valves, and surface-controlled SSSV or WIV associated with a water injection system that are rated for the maximum anticipated injection pressure.

(e) Consider the effects of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) when designing your water flood system, as required by § 250.805.

(f) Follow the valve closure times and hydraulic bleed requirements according to your approved DWOP for the following:

(1) Electro-hydraulic control system with water injection,

(2) Electro-hydraulic control system with water injection with loss of communications, and

(3) Direct-hydraulic control system with water injection.

(g) Comply with the following injection valve testing requirements:

(1) You must test your injection valves as provided in the following table:

(2) If a designated USV on a water injection well fails the applicable test under § 250.880(c)(4)(ii), you must notify the appropriate District Manager and request approval to designate another ANSI/API Spec 6A and API Spec. 6AV1 (both incorporated by reference in § 250.198) certified subsea valve as your USV.

(3) If a USV on a water injection well fails the test and the surface-controlled SSSV or WIV cannot be tested as required under (g)(1)(ii) of this section because of low reservoir pressure, you must submit a request to the appropriate District Manager with an alternative plan that ensures subsea shutdown capabilities.

(h) If you experience a loss of communications during water injection operations, you must comply with the following:

(1) Notify the appropriate District Manager within 12 hours after detecting loss of communication; and

(2) Obtain approval from the appropriate District Manager to continue to inject during the loss of communication.
