
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart H - Oil and Gas Production Safety Systems
###### Safety Device Testing
####### ยง 250.880 Production safety system testing.
######## Subsea wells.

(d)(1) Any subsea well that is completed and disconnected from monitoring capability may not be disconnected for more than 24 months, unless authorized by BSEE.

(2) Any subsea well that is completed and disconnected from monitoring capability for more than 6 months must meet the following testing and other requirements:

(i) Each well must have 3 pressure barriers:

(A) A closed and tested surface-controlled SSSV,

(B) A closed and tested USV, and

(C) One additional closed and tested tree valve.

(ii) For new completed wells, prior to the rig leaving the well, the pressure barriers must be tested as follows:

(A) The surface-controlled SSSV must be tested for leakage in accordance with ยง 250.828(c);

(B) The USV and other pressure barrier must be tested to confirm zero leakage rate.

(iii) A sealing pressure cap must be installed on the flowline connection hub until the flowline is installed and connected. The pressure cap must be designed to accommodate monitoring for pressure between the production wing valve and cap. The pressure cap must also be designed so that a remotely operated vehicle can bleed pressure off, monitor for buildup, and confirm barrier integrity.

(iv) Pressure monitoring at the sealing pressure cap on the flowline connection hub must be performed in each well at intervals not to exceed 12 months from the time of initial testing of the pressure barrier (prior to demobilizing the rig from the field).

(v) You must have a drilling vessel capable of intervention into the disconnected well in the field or readily accessible for use until the wells are brought on line.
