
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart I - Platforms and Structures
###### General Requirements for Platforms
####### § 250.900 What general requirements apply to all platforms?

(a) You must design, fabricate, install, use, maintain, inspect, and assess all platforms and related structures on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) so as to ensure their structural integrity for the safe conduct of drilling, workover, and production operations. In doing this, you must consider the specific environmental conditions at the platform location.

(b) You must also submit an application under § 250.905 of this subpart and obtain the approval of the Regional Supervisor before performing any of the activities described in the following table:

(c) Under emergency conditions, you may make repairs to primary structural elements to restore an existing permitted condition without submitting an application or receiving prior BSEE approval for up to 120-calendar days following an event. You must notify the Regional Supervisor of the damage that occurred within 24 hours of its discovery, and you must provide a written completion report to the Regional Supervisor of the repairs that were made within 1 week after completing the repairs. If you make emergency repairs on a floating platform, you must also notify the USCG.

(d) You must determine if your new platform or major modification to an existing platform is subject to the Platform Verification Program (PVP). Section 250.910 of this subpart fully describes the facilities that are subject to the PVP. If you determine that your platform is subject to the PVP, you must follow the requirements of §§ 250.909 through 250.918 of this subpart.

(e) You must submit notification of the platform installation date and the final as-built location data to the Regional Supervisor within 45-calendar days of completion of platform installation.

(1) For platforms not subject to the Platform Verification Program (PVP), BSEE will cancel the approved platform application 1 year after the approval has been granted if the platform has not been installed. If BSEE cancels the approval, you must resubmit your platform application and receive BSEE approval if you still plan to install the platform.

(2) For platforms subject to the PVP, cancellation of an approval will be on an individual platform basis. For these platforms, BSEE will identify the date when the installation approval will be cancelled (if installation has not occurred) during the application and approval process. If BSEE cancels your installation approval, you must resubmit your platform application and receive BSEE approval if you still plan to install the platform.
