
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart J - Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
###### ยง 250.1000 General requirements.
####### etc.

(10) DOT may inspect all upstream safety equipment (including valves, over-pressure protection devices, cathodic protection equipment, and pigging devices,) that serve to protect the integrity of DOT-regulated pipeline segments.

(11) OCS pipeline segments not subject to DOT regulation under 49 CFR parts 192 and 195 are subject to all BSEE regulations.

(12) A producer may request that its pipeline operate under DOT regulations governing pipeline design, construction, operation, and maintenance.

(i) The operator's request must be in the form of a written petition to the BSEE Regional Supervisor that states the justification for the pipeline to operate under DOT regulation.

(ii) The Regional Supervisor will decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether to grant the operator's request. In considering each petition, the Regional Supervisor will consult with the appropriate DOT pipeline official.

(13) A transporter who operates a pipeline regulated by DOT may request to operate under BSEE regulations governing pipeline operation and maintenance. Any subsequent repairs or modifications will also be subject to BSEE regulations governing design and construction.

(i) The operator's request must be in the form of a written petition to the appropriate DOT pipeline official and the BSEE Regional Supervisor.

(ii) The BSEE Regional Supervisor and the appropriate DOT pipeline official will decide how to act on this petition.

(d) A pipeline which qualifies as a right-of-way pipeline (see ยง 250.1001, Definitions) shall not be installed until a right-of-way has been requested and granted in accordance with this subpart.

(e)(1) The Regional Supervisor may suspend any pipeline operation upon a determination by the Regional Supervisor that continued activity would threaten or result in serious, irreparable, or immediate harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, mineral deposits, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.

(2) The Regional Supervisor may also suspend pipeline operations or a right-of-way grant if the Regional Supervisor determines that the lessee or right-of-way holder has failed to comply with a provision of the Act or any other applicable law, a provision of these or other applicable regulations, or a condition of a permit or right-of-way grant.

(3) The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) may cancel a pipeline permit or right-of-way grant in accordance with 43 U.S.C. 1334(a)(2). A right-of-way grant may be forfeited in accordance with 43 U.S.C. 1334(e).
