
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart J - Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
###### ยง 250.1003 Installation, testing, and repair requirements for DOI pipelines.

(a)(1) Pipelines greater than 8inches in diameter and installed in water depths of less than 200 feet shall be buried to a depth of at least 3 feet unless they are located in pipeline congested areas or seismically active areas as determined by the Regional Supervisor. Nevertheless, the Regional Supervisor may require burial of any pipeline if the Regional Supervisor determines that such burial will reduce the likelihood of environmental degradation or that the pipeline may constitute a hazard to trawling operations or other uses. A trawl test or diver survey may be required to determine whether or not pipeline burial is necessary or to determine whether a pipeline has been properly buried.

(2) Pipeline valves, taps, tie-ins, capped lines, and repaired sections that could be obstructive shall be provided with at least 3 feet of cover unless the Regional Supervisor determines that such items present no hazard to trawling or other operations. A protective device may be used to cover an obstruction in lieu of burial if it is approved by the Regional Supervisor prior to installation.

(3) Pipelines shall be installed with a minimum separation of 18 inches at pipeline crossings and from obstructions.

(4) Pipeline risers installed after April 1, 1988, shall be protected from physical damage that could result from contact with floating vessels. Riser protection on pipelines installed on or before April 1, 1988, may be required when the Regional Supervisor determines that significant damage potential exists.

(b)(1) Pipelines shall be pressure tested with water at a stabilized pressure of at least 1.25 times the MAOP for at least 8 hours when installed, relocated, uprated, or reactivated after being out-of-service for more than 1 year.

(2) Prior to returning a pipeline to service after a repair, the pipeline shall be pressure tested with water or processed natural gas at a minimum stabilized pressure of at least 1.25 times the MAOP for at least 2 hours.

(3) Pipelines shall not be pressure tested at a pressure which produces a stress in the pipeline in excess of 95 percent of the specified minimum-yield strength of the pipeline. A temperature recorder measuring test fluid temperature synchronized with a pressure recorder along with deadweight test readings shall be employed for all pressure testing. When a pipeline is pressure tested, no observable leakage shall be allowed. Pressure gauges and recorders shall be of sufficient accuracy to verify that leakage is not occurring.

(4) The Regional Supervisor may require pressure testing of pipelines to verify the integrity of the system when the Regional Supervisor determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that the line has been damaged or weakened by external or internal conditions.

(c) When a pipeline is repaired utilizing a clamp, the clamp shall be a full encirclement clamp able to withstand the anticipated pipeline pressure.
