
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart J - Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
###### ยง 250.1004 Safety equipment requirements for DOI pipelines.

(a) The lessee shall ensure the proper installation, operation, and maintenance of safety devices required by this section on all incoming, departing, and crossing pipelines on platforms.

(b)(1)(i) Incoming pipelines to a platform shall be equipped with a flow safety valve (FSV).

(ii) For sulphur operations, incoming pipelines delivering gas to the power plant platform may be equipped with high- and low-pressure sensors (PSHL), which activate audible and visual alarms in lieu of requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. The PSHL shall be set at 15 percent or 5 psi, whichever is greater, above and below the normal operating pressure range.

(2) Incoming pipelines boarding a production platform shall be equipped with an automatic shutdown valve (SDV) immediately upon boarding the platform. The SDV shall be connected to the automatic- and remote-emergency shut-in systems.

(3) Departing pipelines receiving production from production facilities shall be protected by high- and low-pressure sensors (PSHL) to directly or indirectly shut in all production facilities. The PSHL shall be set not to exceed 15 percent above and below the normal operating pressure range. However, high pilots shall not be set above the pipeline's MAOP.

(4) Crossing pipelines on production or manned nonproduction platforms which do not receive production from the platform shall be equipped with an SDV immediately upon boarding the platform. The SDV shall be operated by a PSHL on the departing pipelines and connected to the platform automatic- and remote-emergency shut-in systems.

(5) The Regional Supervisor may require that oil pipelines be equipped with a metering system to provide a continuous volumetric comparison between the input to the line at the structure(s) and the deliveries onshore. The system shall include an alarm system and shall be of adequate sensitivity to detect variations between input and discharge volumes. In lieu of the foregoing, a system capable of detecting leaks in the pipeline may be substituted with the approval of the Regional Supervisor.

(6) Pipelines incoming to a subsea tie-in shall be equipped with a block valve and an FSV. Bidirectional pipelines connected to a subsea tie-in shall be equipped with only a block valve.

(7) Gas-lift or water-injection pipelines on unmanned platforms need only be equipped with an FSV installed immediately upstream of each casing annulus or the first inlet valve on the christmas tree.

(8) Bidirectional pipelines shall be equipped with a PSHL and an SDV immediately upon boarding each platform.

(9) Pipeline pumps must comply with section A7 of API RP 14C (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198). The setting levels for the PSHL devices are specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(c) If the required safety equipment is rendered ineffective or removed from service on pipelines which are continued in operation, an equivalent degree of safety shall be provided. The safety equipment shall be identified by the placement of a sign on the equipment stating that the equipment is rendered ineffective or removed from service.
