
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart J - Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
###### ยง 250.1007 What to include in applications.

(a) Applications to install a lease term pipeline or for a pipeline right-of-way grant must be submitted in quadruplicate to the Regional Supervisor. Right-of-way grant applications must include an identification of the operator of the pipeline. Each application must include the following:

(1) Plat(s) drawn to a scale specified by the Regional Supervisor showing major features and other pertinent data including area, lease, and block designations; water depths; route; length in Federal waters; width of right-of-way, if applicable; connecting facilities; size; product(s) to be transported with anticipated gravity or density; burial depth; direction of flow; X-Y coordinates of key points; and the location of other pipelines that will be connected to or crossed by the proposed pipeline(s). The initial and terminal points of the pipeline and any continuation into State jurisdiction shall be accurately located even if the pipeline is to have an onshore terminal point. A plat(s) submitted for a pipeline right-of-way shall bear a signed certificate upon its face by the engineer who made the map that certifies that the right-of-way is accurately represented upon the map and that the design characteristics of the associated pipeline are in accordance with applicable regulations.

(2) A schematic drawing showing the size, weight, grade, wall thickness, and type of line pipe and risers; pressure-regulating devices (including back-pressure regulators); sensing devices with associated pressure-control lines; PSV's and settings; SDV's, FSV's, and block valves; and manifolds. This schematic drawing shall also show input source(s), e.g., wells, pumps, compressors, and vessels; maximum input pressure(s); the rated working pressure, as specified by ANSI or API, of all valves, flanges, and fittings; the initial receiving equipment and its rated working pressure; and associated safety equipment and pig launchers and receivers. The schematic must indicate the point on the OCS at which operating responsibility transfers between a producing operator and a transporting operator.

(3) General information as follows:

(i) Description of cathodic protection system. If pipeline anodes are to be used, specify the type, size, weight, number, spacing, and anticipated life;

(ii) Description of external pipeline coating system;

(iii) Description of internal protective measures;

(iv) Specific gravity of the empty pipe;

(v) MSP;

(vi) MAOP and calculations used in its determination;

(vii) Hydrostatic test pressure, medium, and period of time that the line will be tested;

(viii) MAOP of the receiving pipeline or facility,

(ix) Proposed date for commencing installation and estimated time for construction; and

(x) Type of protection to be afforded crossing pipelines, subsea valves, taps, and manifold assemblies, if applicable.

(4) A description of any additional design precautions you took to enable the pipeline to withstand the effects of water currents, storm or ice scouring, soft bottoms, mudslides, earthquakes, permafrost, and other environmental factors.

(i) If you propose to use unbonded flexible pipe, your application must include:

(A) The manufacturer's design specification sheet;

(B) The design pressure (psi);

(C) An identification of the design standards you used; and

(D) A review by a third-party independent verification agent (IVA) according to ANSI/API Spec. 17J (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198), if applicable.

(ii) If you propose to use one or more pipeline risers for a tension leg platform or other floating platform, your application must include:

(A) The design fatigue life of the riser, with calculations, and the fatigue point at which you would replace the riser;

(B) The results of your vortex-induced vibration (VIV) analysis;

(C) An identification of the design standards you used; and

(D) A description of any necessary mitigation measures such as the use of helical strakes or anchoring devices.

(5) The application shall include a shallow hazards survey report and, if required by the Regional Director, an archaeological resource report that covers the entire length of the pipeline. A shallow hazards analysis may be included in a lease term pipeline application in lieu of the shallow hazards survey report with the approval of the Regional Director. The Regional Director may require the submission of the data upon which the report or analysis is based.

(b) Applications to modify an approved lease term pipeline or right-of-way grant shall be submitted in quadruplicate to the Regional Supervisor. These applications need only address those items in the original application affected by the proposed modification.
