
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart J - Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
###### ยง 250.1008 Reports.

(a) The lessee, or right-of-way holder, shall notify the Regional Supervisor at least 48 hours prior to commencing the installation or relocation of a pipeline or conducting a pressure test on a pipeline.

(b) The lessee or right-of-way holder shall submit a report to the Regional Supervisor within 90 days after completion of any pipeline construction. The report, submitted in triplicate, shall include an "as-built" location plat drawn to a scale specified by the Regional Supervisor showing the location, length in Federal waters, and X-Y coordinates of key points; the completion date; the proposed date of first operation; and the HPT data. Pipeline right-of-way "as-built" location plats shall be certified by a registered engineer or land surveyor and show the boundaries of the right-of-way as granted. If there is a substantial deviation of the pipeline route as granted in the right-of-way, the report shall include a discussion of the reasons for such deviation.

(c) The lessee or right-of-way holder shall report to the Regional Supervisor any pipeline taken out of service. If the period of time in which the pipeline is out of service is greater than 60 days, written confirmation is also required.

(d) The lessee or right-of-way holder shall report to the Regional Supervisor when any required pipeline safety equipment is taken out of service for more than 12 hours. The Regional Supervisor shall be notified when the equipment is returned to service.

(e) The lessee or right-of-way holder must notify the Regional Supervisor before the repair of any pipeline or as soon as practicable. Your notification must be accompanied by payment of the service fee listed in ยง 250.125. You must submit a detailed report of the repair of a pipeline or pipeline component to the Regional Supervisor within 30 days after the completion of the repairs. In the report you must include the following:

(1) Description of repairs;

(2) Results of pressure test; and

(3) Date returned to service.

(f) The Regional Supervisor may require that DOI pipeline failures be analyzed and that samples of a failed section be examined in a laboratory to assist in determining the cause of the failure. A comprehensive written report of the information obtained shall be submitted by the lessee to the Regional Supervisor as soon as available.

(g) If the effects of scouring, soft bottoms, or other environmental factors are observed to be detrimentally affecting a pipeline, a plan of corrective action shall be submitted to the Regional Supervisor for approval within 30 days of the observation. A report of the remedial action taken shall be submitted to the Regional Supervisor by the lessee or right-of-way holder within 30 days after completion.

(h) The results and conclusions of measurements of pipe-to-electrolyte potential measurements taken annually on DOI pipelines in accordance with ยง 250.1005(b) of this part shall be submitted to the Regional Supervisor by the lessee before March of each year.
