
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart J - Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
###### ยง 250.1010 General requirements for pipeline right-of-way holders.

An applicant, by accepting a right-of-way grant, agrees to comply with the following requirements:

(a) The right-of-way holder shall comply with applicable laws and regulations and the terms of the grant.

(b) The granting of the right-of-way shall be subject to the express condition that the rights granted shall not prevent or interfere in any way with the management, administration, or the granting of other rights by the United States, either prior or subsequent to the granting of the right-of-way. Moreover, the holder agrees to allow the occupancy and use by the United States, its lessees, or other right-of-way holders, of any part of the right-of-way grant not actually occupied or necessarily incident to its use for any necessary operations involved in the management, administration, or the enjoyment of such other granted rights.

(c) If the right-of-way holder discovers any archaeological resource while conducting operations within the right-of-way, the right-of-way holder shall immediately halt operations within the area of the discovery and report the discovery to the Regional Director. If investigations determine that the resource is significant, the Regional Director will inform the right-of-way holder how to protect it.

(d) The Regional Supervisor shall be kept informed at all times of the right-of-way holder's address and, if a corporation, the address of its principal place of business and the name and address of the officer or agent authorized to be served with process.

(e) The right-of-way holder shall pay the United States or its lessees or right-of-way holders, as the case may be, the full value of all damages to the property of the United States or its said lessees or right-of-way holders and shall indemnify the United States against any and all liability for damages to life, person, or property arising from the occupation and use of the area covered by the right-of-way grant.

(f)(1) The holder of a right-of-way oil or gas pipeline shall transport or purchase oil or natural gas produced from submerged lands in the vicinity of the pipeline without discrimination and in such proportionate amounts as the FERC may, after a full hearing with due notice thereof to the interested parties, determine to be reasonable, taking into account, among other things, conservation and the prevention of waste.

(2) Unless otherwise exempted by FERC pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1334(f)(2), the holder shall:

(i) Provide open and nondiscriminatory access to a right-of-way pipeline to both owner and nonowner shippers, and

(ii) Comply with the provisions of 43 U.S.C. 1334(f)(1)(B) under which FERC may order an expansion of the throughput capacity of a right-of-way pipeline which is approved after September 18, 1978, and which is not located in the Gulf of Mexico or the Santa Barbara Channel.

(g) The area covered by a right-of-way and all improvements thereon shall be kept open at all reasonable times for inspection by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE). The right-of-way holder shall make available all records relative to the design, construction, operation, maintenance and repair, and investigations on or with regard to such area.

(h) Upon relinquishment, forfeiture, or cancellation of a right-of-way grant, the right-of-way holder shall remove all platforms, structures, domes over valves, pipes, taps, and valves along the right-of-way. All of these improvements shall be removed by the holder within 1 year of the effective date of the relinquishment, forfeiture, or cancellation unless this requirement is waived in writing by the Regional Supervisor. All such improvements not removed within the time provided herein shall become the property of the United States but that shall not relieve the holder of liability for the cost of their removal or for restoration of the site. Furthermore, the holder is responsible for accidents or damages which might occur as a result of failure to timely remove improvements and equipment and restore a site. An application for relinquishment of a right-of-way grant shall be filed in accordance with ยง 250.1019 of this part.
