
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart J - Pipelines and Pipeline Rights-of-Way
###### § 250.1015 Applications for pipeline right-of-way grants.

(a) You must submit an original and three copies of an application for a new or modified pipeline ROW grant to the Regional Supervisor. The application must address those items required by § 250.1007(a) or (b) of this subpart, as applicable. It must also state the primary purpose for which you will use the ROW grant. If the ROW has been used before the application is made, the application must state the date such use began, by whom, and the date the applicant obtained control of the improvement. When you file your application, you must pay the rental required under § 250.1012 of this subpart, as well as the service fees listed in § 250.125 of this part for a pipeline ROW grant to install a new pipeline, or to convert an existing lease term pipeline into a ROW pipeline. An application to modify an approved ROW grant must be accompanied by the additional rental required under § 250.1012 if applicable. You must file a separate application for each ROW.

(b)(1) An individual applicant shall submit a statement of citizenship or nationality with the application. An applicant who is an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States shall also submit evidence of such status with the application.

(2) If the applicant is an association (including a partnership), the application shall also be accompanied by a certified copy of the articles of association or appropriate reference to a copy of such articles already filed with BSEE and a statement as to any subsequent amendments.

(3) If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall also include the following:

(i) A statement certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the corporation with the corporate seal showing the State in which it is incorporated and the name of the person(s) authorized to act on behalf of the corporation, or

(ii) In lieu of such a statement, an appropriate reference to statements or records previously submitted to BSEE (including material submitted in compliance with prior regulations).

(c) The application shall include a list of every lessee and right-of-way holder whose lease or right-of-way is intersected by the proposed right-of-way. The application shall also include a statement that a copy of the application has been sent by registered or certified mail to each such lessee or right-of-way holder.

(d) The applicant shall include in the application an original and three copies of a completed Nondiscrimination in Employment form (YN 3341-1 dated July 1982). These forms are available at each BSEE regional office.
