
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart K - Oil and Gas Production Requirements
###### Flaring, Venting, and Burning Hydrocarbons
####### ยง 250.1163 How must I measure gas flaring or venting volumes and liquid hydrocarbon burning volumes, and what records must I maintain?

(a) If your facility processes more than an average of 2,000 bopd during May 2010, you must install flare/vent meters within 180 days after May 2010. If your facility processes more than an average of 2,000 bopd during a calendar month after May 2010, you must install flare/vent meters within 120 days after the end of the month in which the average amount of oil processed exceeds 2,000 bopd.

(1) You must notify the Regional Supervisor when your facility begins to process more than an average of 2,000 bopd in a calendar month;

(2) The flare/vent meters must measure all flared and vented gas within 5 percent accuracy;

(3) You must calibrate the meters regularly, in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendation, or at least once every year, whichever is shorter; and

(4) You must use and maintain the flare/vent meters for the life of the facility.

(b) You must report all hydrocarbons produced from a well completion, including all gas flared, gas vented, and liquid hydrocarbons burned, to Office of Natural Resources Revenue on Form ONRR-4054 (Oil and Gas Operations Report), in accordance with 30 CFR 1210.102.

(1) You must report the amount of gas flared and the amount of gas vented separately.

(2) You may classify and report gas used to operate equipment on the lease, such as gas used to power engines, instrument gas, and gas used to maintain pilot lights, as lease use gas.

(3) If flare/vent meters are required at one or more of your facilities, you must report the amount of gas flared and vented at each of those facilities separately from those facilities that do not require meters and separately from other facilities with meters.

(4) If flare/vent meters are not required at your facility:

(i) You may report the gas flared and vented on a lease or unit basis. Gas flared and vented from multiple facilities on a single lease or unit may be reported together.

(ii) If you choose to install meters, you may report the gas volume flared and vented according to the method specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(c) You must prepare and maintain records detailing gas flaring, gas venting, and liquid hydrocarbon burning for each facility for 6 years.

(1) You must maintain these records on the facility for at least the first 2 years and have them available for inspection by BSEE representatives.

(2) After 2 years, you must maintain the records, allow BSEE representatives to inspect the records upon request and provide copies to the Regional Supervisor upon request, but are not required to keep them on the facility.

(3) The records must include, at a minimum:

(i) Daily volumes of gas flared, gas vented, and liquid hydrocarbons burned;

(ii) Number of hours of gas flaring, gas venting, and liquid hydrocarbon burning, on a daily and monthly cumulative basis;

(iii) A list of the wells contributing to gas flaring, gas venting, and liquid hydrocarbon burning, along with gas-oil ratio data;

(iv) Reasons for gas flaring, gas venting, and liquid hydrocarbon burning; and

(v) Documentation of all required approvals.

(d) If your facility is required to have flare/vent meters:

(1) You must maintain the meter recordings for 6 years.

(i) You must keep these recordings on the facility for 2 years and have them available for inspection by BSEE representatives.

(ii) After 2 years, you must maintain the recordings, allow BSEE representatives to inspect the recordings upon request and provide copies to the Regional Supervisor upon request, but are not required to keep them on the facility.

(iii) These recordings must include the begin times, end times, and volumes for all flaring and venting incidents.

(2) You must maintain flare/vent meter calibration and maintenance records on the facility for 2 years.

(e) If your flaring or venting of gas, or burning of liquid hydrocarbons, required written or oral approval, you must submit documentation to the Regional Supervisor summarizing the location, dates, number of hours, and volumes of gas flared, gas vented, and liquid hydrocarbons burned under the approval.
