
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart K - Oil and Gas Production Requirements
###### Flaring, Venting, and Burning Hydrocarbons
####### § 250.1163 How must I measure gas flaring or venting volumes and liquid hydrocarbon burning volumes, and what records must I maintain?
############### § 250.1164 What are the requirements for flaring or venting gas containing HS?

(a) You may not vent gas containing HS, except for minor releases during maintenance and repair activities that do not result in a 15-minute time-weighted average atmosphere concentration of HS of 20 ppm or higher anywhere on the platform.

(b) You may flare gas containing HS only if you meet the requirements of §§ 250.1160, 250.1161, 250.1163, and the following additional requirements:

(1) For safety or air pollution prevention purposes, the Regional Supervisor may further restrict the flaring of gas containing HS. The Regional Supervisor will use information provided in the lessee's HS Contingency Plan (§ 250.490(f)), Exploration Plan, DPP, DOCD submitted to BOEM, and associated documents to determine the need for restrictions; and

(2) If the Regional Supervisor determines that flaring at a facility or group of facilities may significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area, the Regional Supervisor may require you to conduct an air quality modeling analysis, under 30 CFR 550.303, to determine the potential effect of facility emissions. The Regional Supervisor may require monitoring and reporting, or may restrict or prohibit flaring, under 30 CFR 550.303 and 30 CFR 550.304.

(c) The Regional Supervisor may require you to submit monthly reports of flared and vented gas containing HS. Each report must contain, on a daily basis:

(1) The volume and duration of each flaring and venting occurrence;

(2) HS concentration in the flared or vented gas; and

(3) The calculated amount of SOemitted.
