
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart L - Oil and Gas Production Measurement, Surface Commingling, and Security
###### § 250.1203 Gas measurement.
####### What are the requirements for measuring gas?

(b)You must:

(1) Submit a written application to, and obtain approval from, the Regional Supervisor before commencing gas production, or making any changes to the previously-approved measurement and/or allocation procedures. Your application (which may also include any relevant liquid hydrocarbon measurement and surface commingling requests) must be accompanied by payment of the service fee listed in § 250.125. The service fees are divided into two levels based on complexity, see table in § 250.1202(a)(1).

(2) Design, install, use, maintain, and test measurement equipment and procedures to ensure accurate and verifiable measurement. You must follow the recommendations in API MPMS or RP and AGA as incorporated by reference in 30 CFR 250.198, including the following additional editions:

(i) API RP 86 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198);

(ii) AGA Report No. 7 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198);

(iii) AGA Report No. 9 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198);

(iv) AGA Report No. 10 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198);

(3) Ensure that the measurement components demonstrate consistent levels of accuracy throughout the system.

(4) Equip the meter with a chart or electronic data recorder. If an electronic data recorder is used, you must follow the recommendations in API MPMS(incorporated by reference as specified in § 250.198).

(5) Take proportional-to-flow or spot samples upstream or downstream of the meter at least once every 6 months.

(6) When requested by the Regional Supervisor, provide available information on the gas quality.

(7) Ensure that standard conditions for reporting gross heating value (Btu) are at a base temperature of 60 &#xB0;F and at a base pressure of 14.73 psia and reflect the same degree of water saturation as in the gas volume.

(8) When requested by the Regional Supervisor, submit copies of gas volume statements for each requested gas meter. Show whether gas volumes and gross Btu heating values are reported at saturated or unsaturated conditions; and

(9) When requested by the Regional Supervisor, provide volume and quality statements on dispositions other than those on the gas volume statement.
