
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart M - Unitization
###### ยง 250.1302 What if I have a competitive reservoir on a lease?

(a) The Regional Supervisor may require you to conduct development and production operations in a competitive reservoir under either a joint Competitive Reservoir Development Program submitted to BSEE or a unitization agreement. A competitive reservoir has one or more producing or producible well completions on each of two or more leases, or portions of leases, with different lease operating interests. For purposes of this paragraph, a producible well completion is a well which is capable of production and which is shut in at the well head or at the surface but not necessarily connected to production facilities and from which the operator plans future production.

(b) You may request that the Regional Supervisor make a preliminary determination whether a reservoir is competitive. When you receive the preliminary determination, you have 30 days (or longer if the Regional Supervisor allows additional time) to concur or to submit an objection with supporting evidence if you do not concur. The Regional Supervisor will make a final determination and notify you and the other lessees.

(c) If you conduct drilling or production operations in a reservoir determined competitive by the BSEE Regional Supervisor, you and the other affected lessees must submit for approval a joint Competitive Reservoir Development Program. You must submit the joint Competitive Reservoir Development Program within 90 days after the Regional Supervisor makes a final determination that the reservoir is competitive. The joint Competitive Reservoir Development Program must provide for the development and/or production of the reservoir. You may submit supplemental Competitive Reservoir Development Programs for the Regional Supervisor's approval.

(d) If you and the other affected lessees cannot reach an agreement on a joint Competitive Reservoir Development Program, submitted to BSEE within the approved period of time, each lessee must submit a separate Competitive Reservoir Development Program to the Regional Supervisor. The Regional Supervisor will hold a hearing to resolve differences in the separate Competitive Reservoir Development Programs. If the differences in the separate programs are not resolved at the hearing and the Regional Supervisor determines that unitization is necessary under ยง 250.1301(b), BSEE will initiate unitization under ยง 250.1304.
