
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart M - Unitization
###### ยง 250.1303 How do I apply for voluntary unitization?

(a) You must file a request for a voluntary unit with the Regional Supervisor. Your request must include:

(1) A draft of the proposed unit agreement;

(2) A proposed initial plan of operation;

(3) Supporting geological, geophysical, and engineering data; and

(4) Other information that may be necessary to show that the unitization proposal meets the criteria of ยง 250.1300.

(b) The unit agreement must comply with the requirements of this part. BSEE will maintain and provide a model unit agreement for you to follow. If BSEE revises the model, BSEE will publish the revised model in theIf you vary your unit agreement from the model agreement, you must obtain the approval of the Regional Supervisor.

(c) After the Regional Supervisor accepts your unitization proposal, you, the other lessees, and the unit operator must sign and file copies of the unit agreement, the unit operating agreement, and the initial plan of operation with the Regional Supervisor for approval.

(d) You must pay the service fee listed in ยง 250.125 of this part with your request for a voluntary unitization proposal or the expansion of a previously approved voluntary unit to include additional acreage. Additionally, you must pay the service fee listed in ยง 250.125 with your request for unitization revision.
