
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart C - Inspections and Tests
###### ยง 18.62 Tests to determine explosion-proof characteristics.

(a) In testing for explosion-proof characteristics of an enclosure, it shall be filled and surrounded with various explosive mixtures of natural gas and air. The explosive mixture within the enclosure will be ignited electrically and the explosion pressure developed therefrom recorded. The point of ignition within the enclosure will be varied. Motor armatures and/or rotors will be stationary in some tests and revolving in others. Coal dust having a minimum of 22 percent dry volatile matter and a minimum heat constant of 11,000 moist BTU (coal containing natural bed moisture but not visible surface water) ground to a fineness of minus 200 mesh U.S. Standard sieve series. At MSHA's discretion dummies may be substituted for internal electrical components during some of the tests. Not less than 16 explosion tests shall be conducted; however, the nature of the enclosure and the results obtained during the tests will determine whether additional tests shall be made.

(b) Explosion tests of an enclosure shall not result in:

(1) Discharge of flame.

(2) Ignition of an explosive mixture surrounding the enclosure.

(3) Development of afterburning.

(4) Rupture of any part of the enclosure or any panel or divider within the enclosure.

(5) Permanent distortion of the enclosure exceeding 0.040 inch per linear foot.

(c) When a pressure exceeding 125 pounds per square inch (gage) is developed during explosion tests, MSHA reserves the right to reject an enclosure(s) unless (1) constructional changes are made that result in a reduction of pressure to 125 pounds per square inch (gage) or less, or (2) the enclosure withstands a dynamic pressure of twice the highest value recorded in the initial test.
