
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart O - Well Control and Production Safety Training
###### ยง 250.1503 What are my general responsibilities for training?

(a) You must establish and implement a training program so that all of your employees are trained to competently perform their assigned well control, deepwater well control, and production safety duties. You must verify that your employees understand and can perform the assigned well control, deepwater well control, or production safety duties.

(b) If you conduct operations with a subsea BOP stack, your employees and contract personnel must be trained in deepwater well control. The trained employees and contract personnel must have a comprehensive knowledge of deepwater well control equipment, practices, and theory.

(c) You must have a training plan that specifies the type, method(s), length, frequency, and content of the training for your employees. Your training plan must specify the method(s) of verifying employee understanding and performance. This plan must include at least the following information:

(1) Procedures for training employees in well control, deepwater well control, or production safety practices;

(2) Procedures for evaluating the training programs of your contractors;

(3) Procedures for verifying that all employees and contractor personnel engaged in well control, deepwater well control, or production safety operations can perform their assigned duties;

(4) Procedures for assessing the training needs of your employees on a periodic basis;

(5) Recordkeeping and documentation procedures; and

(6) Internal audit procedures.

(d) Upon request of the District Manager or Regional Supervisor, you must provide:

(1) Copies of training documentation for personnel involved in well control, deepwater well control, or production safety operations during the past 5 years; and

(2) A copy of your training plan.
