
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1608 Well casing and cementing.
####### General requirements.

(a)(1) For the purpose of this subpart, the several casing strings in order of normal installation are:

(i) Drive or structural,

(ii) Conductor,

(iii) Cap rock casing,

(iv) Bobtail cap rock casing (required when the cap rock casing does not penetrate into the cap rock),

(v) Second cap rock casing (brine wells), and

(vi) Production liner.

(2) The lessee shall case and cement all wells with a sufficient number of strings of casing cemented in a manner necessary to prevent release of fluids from any stratum through the wellbore (directly or indirectly) into the sea, protect freshwater aquifers from contamination, support unconsolidated sediments, and otherwise provide a means of control of the formation pressures and fluids. Cement composition, placement techniques, and waiting time shall be designed and conducted so that the cement in place behind the bottom 500 feet of casing or total length of annular cement fill, if less, attains a minimum compressive strength of 160 pounds per square inch (psi).

(3) The lessee shall install casing designed to withstand the anticipated stresses imposed by tensile, compressive, and buckling loads; burst and collapse pressures; thermal effects; and combinations thereof. Safety factors in the drilling and casing program designs shall be of sufficient magnitude to provide well control during drilling and to assure safe operations for the life of the well.

(4) In cases where cement has filled the annular space back to the mud line, the cement may be washed out or displaced to a depth not exceeding the depth of the structural casing shoe to facilitate casing removal upon well abandonment if the District Manager determines that subsurface protection against damage to freshwater aquifers and against damage caused by adverse loads, pressures, and fluid flows is not jeopardized.

(5) If there are indications of inadequate cementing (such as lost returns, cement channeling, or mechanical failure of equipment), the lessee shall evaluate the adequacy of the cementing operations by pressure testing the casing shoe. If the test indicates inadequate cementing, the lessee shall initiate remedial action as approved by the District Manager. For cap rock casing, the test for adequacy of cementing shall be the pressure testing of the annulus between the cap rock and the conductor casings. The pressure shall not exceed 70 percent of the burst pressure of the conductor casing or 70 percent of the collapse pressure of the cap rock casing.
