
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1608 Well casing and cementing.
####### Conductor and cap rock casing setting and cementing requirements.

(c)(1) Conductor and cap rock casing design and setting depths shall be based upon relevant engineering and geologic factors including the presence or absence of hydrocarbons, potential hazards, and water depths. The proposed casing setting depths may be varied, subject to District Manager approval, to permit the casing to be set in a competent formation or through formations determined desirable to be isolated from the wellbore by casing for safer drilling operations. However, the conductor casing shall be set immediately prior to drilling into formations known to contain oil or gas or, if unknown, upon encountering such formations. Cap rock casing shall be set and cemented through formations known to contain oil or gas or, if unknown, upon encountering such formations. Upon encountering unexpected formation pressures, the lessee shall submit a revised casing program to the District Manager for approval.

(2) Conductor casing shall be cemented with a quantity of cement that fills the calculated annular space back to the mud line. Cement fill shall be verified by the observation of cement returns. In the event that observation of cement returns is not feasible, additional quantities of cement shall be used to assure fill to the mud line.

(3) Cap rock casing shall be cemented with a quantity of cement that fills the calculated annular space to at least 200 feet inside the conductor casing. When geologic conditions such as near surface fractures and faulting exist, cap rock casing shall be cemented with a quantity of cement that fills the calculated annular space to the mud line, unless otherwise approved by the District Manager. In brine wells, the second cap rock casing shall be cemented with a quantity of cement that fills the calculated annular space to at least 200 feet above the setting depth of the first cap rock casing.
