
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1613 Diverter systems.

(a) When drilling a conductor or cap rock hole, all drilling units shall be equipped with a diverter system consisting of a diverter sealing element, diverter lines, and control systems. The diverter system shall be designed, installed, and maintained so as to divert gases, water, mud, and other materials away from the facilities and personnel.

(b) The diverter system shall be equipped with remote-control valves in the flow lines that can be operated from at least one remote-control station in addition to the one on the drilling floor. Any valve used in a diverter system shall be full opening. No manual or butterfly valves shall be installed in any part of a diverter system. There shall be a minimum number of turns in the vent line(s) downstream of the spool outlet flange, and the radius of curvature of turns shall be as large as practicable. Flexible hose may be used for diversion lines instead of rigid pipe if the flexible hose has integral end couplings. The entire diverter system shall be firmly anchored and supported to prevent whipping and vibrations. All diverter control equipment and lines shall be protected from physical damage from thrown and falling objects.

(c) For drilling operations conducted with a surface wellhead configuration, the following shall apply:

(1) If the diverter system utilizes only one spool outlet, branch lines shall be installed to provide downwind diversion capability, and

(2) No spool outlet or diverter line internal diameter shall be less than 10 inches, except that dual spool outlets are acceptable if each outlet has a minimum internal diameter of 8 inches, and both outlets are piped to overboard lines and that each line downstream of the changeover nipple at the spool has a minimum internal diameter of 10 inches.

(d) The diverter sealing element and diverter valves shall be pressure tested to a minimum of 200 psi when nippled upon conductor casing. No more than 7 days shall elapse between subsequent pressure tests. The diverter sealing element, diverter valves, and diverter control systems (including the remote) shall be actuation tested, and the diverter lines shall be tested for flow prior to spudding and thereafter at least once each 24-hour period alternating between control stations. All test times and results shall be recorded in the driller's report.
