
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1619 Well records.

(a) Complete and accurate records for each well and all well operations shall be retained for a period of 2 years at the lessee's field office nearest the OCS facility or at another location conveniently available to the District Manager. The records shall contain a description of any significant malfunction or problem; all the formations penetrated; the content and character of sulphur in each formation if cored and analyzed; the kind, weight, size, grade, and setting depth of casing; all well logs and surveys run in the wellbore; and all other information required by the District Manager in the interests of resource evaluation, prevention of waste, conservation of natural resources, protection of correlative rights, safety of operations, and environmental protection.

(b) When drilling operations are suspended or temporarily prohibited under the provisions of ยง 250.170 of this part, the lessee shall, within 30 days after termination of the suspension or temporary prohibition or within 30 days after the completion of any activities related to the suspension or prohibition, transmit to the District Manager duplicate copies of the records of all activities related to and conducted during the suspension or temporary prohibition on, or attached to, Form BSEE-0125, End of Operations Report, or Form BSEE-0124, Application for Permit to Modify, as appropriate.

(c) Upon request by the District Manager or Regional Supervisor, the lessee shall furnish the following:

(1) Copies of the records of any of the well operations specified in paragraph (a) of this section;

(2) Copies of the driller's report at a frequency as determined by the District Manager. Items to be reported include spud dates, casing setting depths, cement quantities, casing characteristics, mud weights, lost returns, and any unusual activities; and

(3) Legible, exact copies of reports on cementing, acidizing, analyses of cores, testing, or other similar services.

(d) As soon as available, the lessee shall transmit copies of logs and charts developed by well-logging operations, directional-well surveys, and core analyses. Composite logs of multiple runs and directional-well surveys shall be transmitted to the District Manager in duplicate as soon as available but not later than 30 days after completion of such operations for each well.

(e) If the District Manager determines that circumstances warrant, the lessee shall submit any other reports and records of operations in the manner and form prescribed by the District Manager.
