
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1628 Design, installation, and operation of production systems.
####### Approval of design and installation features for sulphur production facilities.

(b)Prior to installation, the lessee shall submit a sulphur production system application, in duplicate, to the District Manager for approval. The application shall include information relative to the proposed design and installation features. Information concerning approved design and installation features shall be maintained by the lessee at the lessee's offshore field office nearest the OCS facility or at another location conveniently available to the District Manager. All approvals are subject to field verification. The application shall include the following:

(1) A schematic flow diagram showing size, capacity, design, working pressure of separators, storage tanks, compressor pumps, metering devices, and other sulphur-handling vessels;

(2) A schematic piping diagram showing the size and maximum allowable working pressures as determined in accordance with API RP 14E, Recommended Practice for Design and Installation of Offshore Production Platform Piping Systems (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198);

(3) Electrical system information including a plan of each platform deck, outlining all hazardous areas classified according to API RP 500, Recommended Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical Installations at Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class I, Division 1 and Division 2, or API RP 505, Recommended Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical Installations at Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class I, Zone 0, Zone 1, and Zone 2 (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198), and outlining areas in which potential ignition sources are to be installed;

(4) Certification that the design for the mechanical and electrical systems to be installed were approved by registered professional engineers. After these systems are installed, the lessee shall submit a statement to the District Manager certifying that the new installations conform to the approved designs of this subpart.
