
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1629 Additional production and fuel gas system requirements.
####### Design, installation, and operation of additional production systems, including fuel gas handling safety systems.

(b)(1) Pressure and fired vessels must be designed, fabricated, and code stamped in accordance with the applicable provisions of sections I, IV, and VIII of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (as specified in ยง 250.198). Pressure and fired vessels must have maintenance inspection, rating, repair, and alteration performed in accordance with the applicable provisions of API Pressure Vessel Inspections Code: In-Service Inspection, Rating, Repair, and Alteration, API 510 (except Sections 5.8 and 9.5) (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198).

(i) Pressure safety relief valves shall be designed, installed, and maintained in accordance with applicable provisions of sections I, IV, and VIII of the ANSI/ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (as specified in ยง 250.198). The safety relief valves shall conform to the valve-sizing and pressure-relieving requirements specified in these documents; however, the safety relief valves shall be set no higher than the maximum-allowable working pressure of the vessel. All safety relief valves and vents shall be piped in such a way as to prevent fluid from striking personnel or ignition sources.

(ii) The lessee shall use pressure recorders to establish the operating pressure ranges of pressure vessels in order to establish the pressure-sensor settings. Pressure-recording charts used to determine operating pressure ranges shall be maintained by the lessee for a period of 2 years at the lessee's field office nearest the OCS facility or at another location conveniently available to the District Manager. The high-pressure sensor shall be set no higher than 15 percent or 5 psi, whichever is greater, above the highest operating pressure of the vessel. This setting shall also be set sufficiently below (15 percent or 5 psi, whichever is greater) the safety relief valve's set pressure to assure that the high-pressure sensor sounds an alarm before the safety relief valve starts relieving. The low-pressure sensor shall sound an alarm no lower than 15 percent or 5 psi, whichever is greater, below the lowest pressure in the operating range.
