
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1629 Additional production and fuel gas system requirements.
####### Fire- and gas-detection system.

(4)(i) Fire (flame, heat, or smoke) sensors shall be installed in all enclosed classified areas. Gas sensors shall be installed in all inadequately ventilated, enclosed classified areas. Adequate ventilation is defined as ventilation that is sufficient to prevent accumulation of significant quantities of vapor-air mixture in concentrations over 25 percent of the lower explosive limit. One approved method of providing adequate ventilation is a change of air volume each 5 minutes or 1 cubic foot of air-volume flow per minute per square foot of solid floor area, whichever is greater. Enclosed areas (e.g., buildings, living quarters, or doghouses) are defined as those areas confined on more than four of their six possible sides by walls, floors, or ceilings more restrictive to air flow than grating or fixed open louvers and of sufficient size to allow entry of personnel. A classified area is any area classified Class I, Group D, Division 1 or 2, following the guidelines of API RP 500 (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198), or any area classified Class I, Zone 0, Zone 1, or Zone 2, following the guidelines of API RP 505 (as incorporated by reference in ยง 205.198).

(ii) All detection systems shall be capable of continuous monitoring. Fire-detection systems and portions of combustible gas-detection systems related to the higher gas concentration levels shall be of the manual-reset type. Combustible gas-detection systems related to the lower gas-concentration level may be of the automatic-reset type.

(iii) A fuel-gas odorant or an automatic gas-detection and alarm system is required in enclosed, continuously manned areas of the facility that are provided with fuel gas. Living quarters and doghouses not containing a gas source and not located in a classified area do not require a gas detection system.

(iv) The District Manager may require the installation and maintenance of a gas detector or alarm in any potentially hazardous area.

(v) Fire- and gas-detection systems must be an approved type, designed and installed according to API RP 14C, API RP 14G, and either API RP 14F or API RP 14FZ (the preceding four documents as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198).
