
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart P - Sulphur Operations
###### ยง 250.1630 Safety-system testing and records.
####### Inspection and testing.

(a)You must inspect and successfully test safety system devices at the interval specified below or more frequently if operating conditions warrant. Testing must be in accordance with API RP 14C, Appendix D (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198). For safety system devices other than those listed in API RP 14C, Appendix D, you must utilize the analysis technique and documentation specified therein for inspection and testing of these components, and the following:

(1) Safety relief valves on the natural gas feed system for power plant operations such as pressure safety valves shall be inspected and tested for operation at least once every 12 months. These valves shall be either bench tested or equipped to permit testing with an external pressure source.

(2) The following safety devices (excluding electronic pressure transmitters and level sensors) must be inspected and tested at least once each calendar month, but at no time may more than 6 weeks elapse between tests:

(i) All pressure safety high or pressure safety low, and

(ii) All level safety high and level safety low controls.

(3) The following electronic pressure transmitters and level sensors must be inspected and tested at least once every 3 months, but at no time may more than 120 days elapse between tests:

(i) All PSH or PSL, and

(ii) All LSH and LSL controls.

(4) All pumps for firewater systems shall be inspected and operated weekly.

(5) All fire- (flame, heat, or smoke) and gas-detection systems shall be inspected and tested for operation and recalibrated every 3 months provided that testing can be performed in a nondestructive manner.

(6) Prior to the commencement of production, the lessee shall notify the District Manager when the lessee is ready to conduct a preproduction test and inspection of the safety system. The lessee shall also notify the District Manager upon commencement of production in order that a complete inspection may be conducted.
