
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart Q - Decommissioning Activities
###### Site Clearance for Wells, Platforms, and Other Facilities
####### ยง 250.1741 If I drag a trawl across a site, what requirements must I meet?

If you drag a trawl across the site in accordance with ยง 250.1740, you must meet all of the requirements of this section.

(a) You must drag the trawl in a grid-like pattern as shown in the following table:

(b) You must trawl 100 percent of the limits described in paragraph (a) of this section in two directions.

(c) You must mark the area to be cleared as a hazard to navigation according to USCG requirements until you complete the site clearance procedures.

(d) You must use a trawling vessel equipped with a calibrated navigational positioning system capable of providing position accuracy of +/-30 feet.

(e) You must use a trawling net that is representative of those used in the commercial fishing industry (one that has a net strength equal or greater than that provided by No. 18 twine).

(f) You must ensure that you trawl no closer than 300 feet from a shipwreck, and 500 feet from a sensitive biological feature.

(g) If you trawl near an active pipeline, you must meet the requirements in the following table:

(h) You must ensure that any trawling contractor you may use:

(1) Has no corporate or other financial ties to you; and

(2) Has a valid commercial trawling license for both the vessel and its captain.
