
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 18 - ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN MINE EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES
##### Subpart D - Machines Assembled With Certified or Explosion-Proof Components, Field Modifications of Approved Machines, and Permits To Use Experimental Equipment
###### § 18.80 Approval of machines assembled with certified or explosion-proof components.

(a) A machine may be a new assembly, or a machine rebuilt to perform a service that is different from the original function, or a machine converted from nonpermissible to permissible status, or a machine converted from direct- to alternating-current power or vice versa. Properly identified components that have been investigated and accepted for application on approved machines will be accepted in lieu of certified components.

(b) A single layout drawing (see Figure 1 in Appendix II) or photographs will be acceptable to identify a machine that was assembled with certified or explosion-proof components. The following information shall be furnished:

(1) Overall dimensions.

(2) Wiring diagram.

(3) List of all components (see Figure 2 in Appendix II) identifying each according to its certification number or the approval number of the machine of which the component was a part.

(4) Specifications for:

(i) Overcurrent protection of motors.

(ii) All wiring between components, including mechanical protection such as hose conduits and clamps.

(iii) Portable cable, including the type, length, outside diameter, and number and size of conductors.

(iv) Insulated strain clamp for machine end of portable cable.

(v) Short-circuit protection to be provided at outby end of portable cable.

(c) MSHA reserves the right to inspect and to retest any component(s) that had been in previous service, as it deems appropriate.

(d) When MSHA has determined that all applicable requirements of this part have been met, the applicant will be authorized to attach an approval plate to each machine that is built in strict accordance with the drawings and specifications filed with MSHA and listed with MSHA's formal approval. A design of the approval plate will accompany the notification of approval. (Refer to §§ 18.10 and 18.11.)

(e) Approvals are issued only by the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059.
