
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart S - Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
###### ยง 250.1909 What are management's general responsibilities for the SEMS program?

You, through your management, must require that the program elements discussed in API RP 75 (as incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198) and in this subpart are properly documented and are available at field and office locations, as appropriate for each program element. You, through your management, are responsible for the development, support, continued improvement, and overall success of your SEMS program. Specifically you, through your management, must:

(a) Establish goals and performance measures, demand accountability for implementation, and provide necessary resources for carrying out an effective SEMS program.

(b) Appoint management representatives who are responsible for establishing, implementing and maintaining an effective SEMS program.

(c) Designate specific management representatives who are responsible for reporting to management on the performance of the SEMS program.

(d) At intervals specified in the SEMS program and at least annually, review the SEMS program to determine if it continues to be suitable, adequate and effective (by addressing the possible need for changes to policy, objectives, and other elements of the program in light of program audit results, changing circumstances and the commitment to continual improvement) and document the observations, conclusions and recommendations of that review.

(e) Develop and endorse a written description of your safety and environmental policies and organizational structure that define responsibilities, authorities, and lines of communication required to implement the SEMS program.

(f) Utilize personnel with expertise in identifying safety hazards, environmental impacts, optimizing operations, developing safe work practices, developing training programs and investigating incidents.

(g) Ensure that facilities are designed, constructed, maintained, monitored, and operated in a manner compatible with applicable industry codes, consensus standards, and generally accepted practice as well as in compliance with all applicable governmental regulations.

(h) Ensure that management of safety hazards and environmental impacts is an integral part of the design, construction, maintenance, operation, and monitoring of each facility.

(i) Ensure that suitably trained and qualified personnel are employed to carry out all aspects of the SEMS program.

(j) Ensure that the SEMS program is maintained and kept up to date by means of periodic audits to ensure effective performance.
