
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart S - Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
###### ยง 250.1911 What hazards analysis criteria must my SEMS program meet?
####### Hazards analysis (facility level).

(a)The hazards analysis must be appropriate for the complexity of the operation and must identify, evaluate, and manage the hazards involved in the operation.

(1) The hazards analysis must address the following:

(i) Hazards of the operation;

(ii) Previous incidents related to the operation you are evaluating, including any incident in which you were issued an Incident of Noncompliance or a civil or criminal penalty;

(iii) Control technology applicable to the operation your hazards analysis is evaluating; and

(iv) A qualitative evaluation of the possible safety and health effects on employees, and potential impacts to the human and marine environments, which may result if the control technology fails.

(2) The hazards analysis must be performed by a person(s) with experience in the operations being evaluated. These individuals also need to be experienced in the hazards analysis methodologies being employed.

(3) You should assure that the recommendations in the hazards analysis are resolved and that the resolution is documented.

(4) A single hazards analysis can be performed to fulfill the requirements for simple and nearly identical facilities, such as well jackets and single well caissons. You can apply this single hazards analysis to simple and nearly identical facilities after you verify that any site-specific deviations are addressed in each of your SEMS program elements.
