
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart S - Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
###### ยง 250.1911 What hazards analysis criteria must my SEMS program meet?
####### JSA.

(b)You must ensure a JSA is prepared, conducted, and approved for OCS activities that are identified or discussed in your SEMS program. The JSA is a technique used to identify risks to personnel associated with their job activities. The JSAs are also used to determine the appropriate mitigation measures needed to reduce job risks to personnel. The JSA must include all personnel involved with the job activity.

(1) You must ensure that your JSA identifies, analyzes, and records:

(i) The steps involved in performing a specific job;

(ii) The existing or potential safety, health, and environmental hazards associated with each step; and

(iii) The recommended action(s) and/or procedure(s) that will eliminate or reduce these hazards, the risk of a workplace injury or illness, or environmental impacts.

(2) The immediate supervisor of the crew performing the job onsite must conduct the JSA, sign the JSA, and ensure that all personnel participating in the job understand and sign the JSA.

(3) The individual you designate as being in charge of the facility must approve and sign all JSAs before personnel start the job.

(4) If a particular job is conducted on a recurring basis, and if the parameters of these recurring jobs do not change, then the person in charge of the job may decide that a JSA for each individual job is not required. The parameters you must consider in making this determination include, but are not limited to, changes in personnel, procedures, equipment, and environmental conditions associated with the job.

(c) All personnel, which includes contractors, must be trained in accordance with the requirements of ยง 250.1915. You must also verify that contractors are trained in accordance with ยง 250.1915 prior to performing a job.
