
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart S - Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
###### ยง 250.1913 What criteria for operating procedures must my SEMS program meet?

(a) You must develop and implement written operating procedures that provide instructions for conducting safe and environmentally sound activities involved in each operation addressed in your SEMS program. These procedures must include the job title and reporting relationship of the person or persons responsible for each of the facility's operating areas and address the following:

(1) Initial startup;

(2) Normal operations;

(3) All emergency operations (including but not limited to medical evacuations, weather-related evacuations and emergency shutdown operations);

(4) Normal shutdown;

(5) Startup following a turnaround, or after an emergency shutdown;

(6) Bypassing and flagging out-of-service equipment;

(7) Safety and environmental consequences of deviating from your equipment operating limits and steps required to correct or avoid this deviation;

(8) Properties of, and hazards presented by, the chemicals used in the operations;

(9) Precautions you will take to prevent the exposure of chemicals used in your operations to personnel and the environment. The precautions must include control technology, personal protective equipment, and measures to be taken if physical contact or airborne exposure occurs;

(10) Raw materials used in your operations and the quality control procedures you used in purchasing these raw materials;

(11) Control of hazardous chemical inventory; and

(12) Impacts to the human and marine environment identified through your hazards analysis.

(b) Operating procedures must be accessible to all employees involved in the operations.

(c) Operating procedures must be reviewed at the conclusion of specified periods and as often as necessary to assure they reflect current and actual operating practices, including any changes made to your operations.

(d) You must develop and implement safe and environmentally sound work practices for identified hazards during operations and the degree of hazard presented.

(e) Review of and changes to the procedures must be documented and communicated to responsible personnel.
