
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart S - Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
###### § 250.1915 What training criteria must be in my SEMS program?

Your SEMS program must establish and implement a training program so that all personnel are trained in accordance with their duties and responsibilities to work safely and are aware of potential environmental impacts. Training must address such areas as operating procedures (§ 250.1913), safe work practices (§ 250.1914), emergency response and control measures (§ 250.1918), SWA (§ 250.1930), UWA (§ 250.1931), EPP (§ 250.1932), reporting unsafe working conditions (§ 250.1933), and how to recognize and identify hazards and how to construct and implement JSAs (§ 250.1911). You must document your instructors' qualifications. Your SEMS program must address:

(a) Initial training for the basic well-being of personnel and protection of the environment, and ensure that persons assigned to operate and maintain the facility possess the required knowledge and skills to carry out their duties and responsibilities, including startup and shutdown.

(b) Periodic training to maintain understanding of, and adherence to, the current operating procedures, using periodic drills, to verify adequate retention of the required knowledge and skills.

(c) Communication requirements to ensure that personnel will be informed of and trained as outlined in this section whenever a change is made in any of the areas in your SEMS program that impacts their ability to properly understand and perform their duties and responsibilities. Training and/or notice of the change must be given before personnel are expected to operate the facility.

(d) How you will verify that the contractors are trained in the work practices necessary to understand and perform their jobs in a safe and environmentally sound manner in accordance with all provisions of this section.
