
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart S - Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
###### ยง 250.1916 What criteria for mechanical integrity must my SEMS program meet?

You must develop and implement written procedures that provide instructions to ensure the mechanical integrity and safe operation of equipment through inspection, testing, and quality assurance. The purpose of mechanical integrity is to ensure that equipment is fit for service. Your mechanical integrity program must encompass all equipment and systems used to prevent or mitigate uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons, toxic substances, or other materials that may cause environmental or safety consequences. These procedures must address the following:

(a) The design, procurement, fabrication, installation, calibration, and maintenance of your equipment and systems in accordance with the manufacturer's design and material specifications.

(b) The training of each employee involved in maintaining your equipment and systems so that your employees can implement your mechanical integrity program.

(c) The frequency of inspections and tests of your equipment and systems. The frequency of inspections and tests must be in accordance with BSEE regulations and meet the manufacturer's recommendations. Inspections and tests can be performed more frequently if determined to be necessary by prior operating experience.

(d) The documentation of each inspection and test that has been performed on your equipment and systems. This documentation must identify the date of the inspection or test; include the name and position, and the signature of the person who performed the inspection or test; include the serial number or other identifier of the equipment on which the inspection or test was performed; include a description of the inspection or test performed; and the results of the inspection test.

(e) The correction of deficiencies associated with equipment and systems that are outside the manufacturer's recommended limits. Such corrections must be made before further use of the equipment and system.

(f) The installation of new equipment and constructing systems. The procedures must address the application for which they will be used.

(g) The modification of existing equipment and systems. The procedures must ensure that they are modified for the application for which they will be used.

(h) The verification that inspections and tests are being performed. The procedures must be appropriate to ensure that equipment and systems are installed consistent with design specifications and the manufacturer's instructions.

(i) The assurance that maintenance materials, spare parts, and equipment are suitable for the applications for which they will be used.
