
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 250 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart S - Safety and Environmental Management Systems (SEMS)
###### ยง 250.1928 What are my recordkeeping and documentation requirements?

(a) Your SEMS program procedures must ensure that records and documents are maintained for a period of 6 years, except as provided below. You must document and keep all SEMS audits for 6 years and make them available to BSEE upon request. You must maintain a copy of all SEMS program documents at an onshore location.

(b) For JSAs, the person in charge of the job must document the results of the JSA in writing and must ensure that records are kept onsite for 30 days. In the case of a MODU, records must be kept onsite for 30 days or until you release the MODU, whichever comes first. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.

(c) You must document and date all management of change provisions as specified in ยง 250.1912. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.

(d) You must keep your injury/illness log for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.

(e) You must keep all evaluations completed on contractor's safety policies and procedures for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.

(f) For SWA, you must document all training and reviews required by ยง 250.1930(e). You must ensure that these records are kept onsite for 30 days. In the case of a MODU, records must be kept onsite for 30 days or until you release the MODU, whichever comes first. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.

(g) For EPP, you must document your employees' participation in the development and implementation of the SEMS program. You must retain these records for 2 years and make them available to BSEE upon request.

(h) You must keep all records in an orderly manner, readily identifiable, retrievable and legible, and include the date of any and all revisions.
