
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 254 - OIL-SPILL RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES LOCATED SEAWARD OF THE COAST LINE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 254.1 Who must submit an oil spill response plan (OSRP)?
####### oil, facility,,coast line

(a) If you are the owner or operator of an oil handling, storage, or transportation facility, and it is located seaward of the coast line, you must submit an oil spill response plan (OSRP) to BSEE for approval. Your OSRP must demonstrate that you can respond quickly and effectively whenever oil is discharged from your facility. Refer to ยง 254.6 for the definitions ofandif you have any doubts about whether to submit a plan.

(b) You must maintain a current OSRP for an abandoned facility until you physically remove or dismantle the facility or until the Chief, Oil Spill Preparedness Division (OSPD) notifies you in writing that a plan is no longer required.

(c) Owners or operators of offshore pipelines carrying essentially dry gas do not need to submit a plan. You must, however, submit a plan for a pipeline that carries:

(1) Oil;

(2) Condensate that has been injected into the pipeline; or

(3) Gas and naturally occurring condensate.

(d) If you are in doubt as to whether you must submit a plan for an offshore facility or pipeline, you should check with the Chief, OSPD.

(e) If your facility is located landward of the coast line, but you believe your facility is sufficiently similar to OCS facilities that it should be regulated by BSEE, you may contact the Chief, OSPD, offer to accept BSEE jurisdiction over your facility, and request that BSEE seek from the agency with jurisdiction over your facility a relinquishment of that jurisdiction.
