
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 254 - OIL-SPILL RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES LOCATED SEAWARD OF THE COAST LINE
##### Subpart B - Oil-Spill Response Plans for Outer Continental Shelf Facilities
###### ยง 254.23 What information must I include in the "Emergency response action plan" section?

The "Emergency response action plan" section is the core of the OSRP. Put information in easy-to-use formats such as flow charts or tables where appropriate. This section must include:

(a) Designation, by name or position, of a trained qualified individual (QI) who has full authority to implement removal actions and ensure immediate notification of appropriate Federal officials and response personnel.

(b) Designation, by name or position, of a trained spill management team available on a 24-hour basis. The team must include a trained spill-response coordinator and alternate(s) who have the responsibility and authority to direct and coordinate response operations on your behalf. You must describe the team's organizational structure as well as the responsibilities and authorities of each position on the spill management team.

(c) Description of a spill-response operating team. Team members must be trained and available on a 24-hour basis to deploy and operate spill-response equipment. They must be able to respond within a reasonable minimum specified time. You must include the number and types of personnel available from each identified labor source.

(d) A planned location for a spill-response operations center and provisions for primary and alternate communications systems available for use in coordinating and directing spill-response operations. You must provide telephone numbers for the response operations center. You also must provide any facsimile numbers and primary and secondary radio frequencies that will be used.

(e) A listing of the types and characteristics of the oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility.

(f) Procedures for the early detection of a spill.

(g) Identification of procedures you will follow in the event of a spill or a substantial threat of a spill. The procedures should show appropriate response levels for differing spill sizes including those resulting from a fire or explosion. These will include, as appropriate:

(1) Your procedures for spill notification. The plan must provide for the use of the oil spill reporting forms included in the Area Contingency Plan or an equivalent reporting form.

(i) Your procedures must include a current list which identifies the following by name or position, corporate address, and telephone number (including facsimile number if applicable):

(A) The qualified individual;

(B) The spill-response coordinator and alternate(s); and

(C) Other spill-response management team members.

(ii) You must also provide names, telephone numbers, and addresses for the following:

(A) OSRO's that the plan cites;

(B) Federal, State, and local regulatory agencies that you must consult to obtain site specific environmental information; and

(C) Federal, State, and local regulatory agencies that you must notify when an oil spill occurs.

(2) Your methods to monitor and predict spill movement;

(3) Your methods to identify and prioritize the beaches, waterfowl, other marine and shoreline resources, and areas of special economic and environmental importance;

(4) Your methods to protect beaches, waterfowl, other marine and shoreline resources, and areas of special economic or environmental importance;

(5) Your methods to ensure that containment and recovery equipment as well as the response personnel are mobilized and deployed at the spill site;

(6) Your methods to ensure that devices for the storage of recovered oil are sufficient to allow containment and recovery operations to continue without interruption;

(7) Your procedures to remove oil and oiled debris from shallow waters and along shorelines and rehabilitating waterfowl which become oiled;

(8) Your procedures to store, transfer, and dispose of recovered oil and oil-contaminated materials and to ensure that all disposal is in accordance with Federal, State, and local requirements; and

(9) Your methods to implement your dispersant use plan and your in situ burning plan.
