
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 254 - OIL-SPILL RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES LOCATED SEAWARD OF THE COAST LINE
##### Subpart C - Related Requirements for Outer Continental Shelf Facilities
###### ยง 254.46 Whom do I notify if an oil spill occurs?

(a) You must immediately notify the National Response Center (1-800-424-8802) if you observe:

(1) An oil spill from your facility;

(2) An oil spill from another offshore facility; or

(3) An offshore spill of unknown origin.

(b) In the event of a spill of 1 barrel or more from your facility, you must orally notify the Regional Supervisor without delay. You also must report spills from your facility of unknown size but thought to be 1 barrel or more.

(1) If a spill from your facility not originally reported to the Regional Supervisor is subsequently found to be 1 barrel or more, you must then report it without delay.

(2) You must file a written follow up report for any spill from your facility of 1 barrel or more. The Chief, OSPD must receive this confirmation within 15 days after the spillage has been stopped. All reports must include the cause, location, volume, and remedial action taken. Reports of spills of more than 50 barrels must include information on the sea state, meteorological conditions, and the size and appearance of the slick. The Regional Supervisor may require additional information if it is determined that an analysis of the response is necessary.

(c) If you observe a spill resulting from operations at another offshore facility, you must immediately notify the responsible party and the Regional Supervisor.
