
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 254 - OIL-SPILL RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES LOCATED SEAWARD OF THE COAST LINE
##### Subpart C - Related Requirements for Outer Continental Shelf Facilities
###### ยง 254.47 Determining the volume of oil of your worst case discharge scenario.

You must calculate the volume of oil of your worst case discharge scenario as follows:

(a) For an oil production platform facility, the size of your worst case discharge scenario is the sum of the following:

(1) The maximum capacity of all oil storage tanks and flow lines on the facility. Flow line volume may be estimated; and

(2) The volume of oil calculated to leak from a break in any pipelines connected to the facility considering shutdown time, the effect of hydrostatic pressure, gravity, frictional wall forces and other factors; and

(3) The daily production volume from an uncontrolled blowout of the highest capacity well associated with the facility. In determining the daily discharge rate, you must consider reservoir characteristics, casing/production tubing sizes, and historical production and reservoir pressure data. Your scenario must discuss how to respond to this well flowing for 30 days as required by ยง 254.26(d)(1).

(b) For exploratory or development drilling operations, the size of your worst case discharge scenario is the daily volume possible from an uncontrolled blowout. In determining the daily discharge rate, you must consider any known reservoir characteristics. If reservoir characteristics are unknown, you must consider the characteristics of any analog reservoirs from the area and give an explanation for the selection of the reservoir(s) used. Your scenario must discuss how to respond to this well flowing for 30 days as required by ยง 254.26(d)(1).

(c) For a pipeline facility, the size of your worst case discharge scenario is the volume possible from a pipeline break. You must calculate this volume as follows:

(1) Add the pipeline system leak detection time to the shutdown response time.

(2) Multiply the time calculated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section by the highest measured oil flow rate over the preceding 12-month period. For new pipelines, you should use the predicted oil flow rate in the calculation.

(3) Add to the volume calculated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section the total volume of oil that would leak from the pipeline after it is shut in. Calculate this volume by taking into account the effects of hydrostatic pressure, gravity, frictional wall forces, length of pipeline segment, tie-ins with other pipelines, and other factors.

(d) If your facility which stores, handles, transfers, processes, or transports oil does not fall into the categories listed in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, contact the Chief, OSPD for instructions on the calculation of the volume of your worst case discharge scenario.
