
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 254 - OIL-SPILL RESPONSE REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES LOCATED SEAWARD OF THE COAST LINE
##### Subpart D - Oil-Spill Response Requirements for Facilities Located in State Waters Seaward of the Coast Line
###### ยง 254.53 Submitting an OSRP developed under State requirements.

(a) You may submit a response plan to BSEE for approval that you developed in accordance with the laws or regulations of the appropriate State. The OSRP must contain all the elements the State and OPA require and must:

(1) Be consistent with the requirements of the National Contingency Plan and appropriate Area Contingency Plan(s).

(2) Identify a qualified individual and require immediate communication between that person and appropriate Federal officials and response personnel if there is a spill.

(3) Identify any private personnel and equipment necessary to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge as defined in ยง 254.47. The plan must provide proof of contractual services or other evidence of a contractual agreement with any OSRO's or spill management team members who are not employees of the owner or operator.

(4) Describe the training, equipment testing, periodic unannounced drills, and response actions of personnel at the facility. These must ensure both the safety of the facility and the mitigation or prevention of a discharge or the substantial threat of a discharge.

(5) Describe the procedures you will use to periodically update and resubmit the plan for approval of each significant change.

(b) Your plan developed under State requirements also must include the following information:

(1) A list of the facilities and leases the plan covers and a map showing their location;

(2) A list of the types of oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility;

(3) Name and address of the State agency to whom the plan was submitted;

(4) Date you submitted the plan to the State;

(5) If the plan received formal approval, the name of the approving organization, the date of approval, and a copy of the State agency's approval letter if one was issued; and

(6) Identification of any regulations or standards used in preparing the plan.
