
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 256 - LEASING OF SULPHUR OR OIL AND GAS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - Outer Continental Shelf Oil, Gas, and Sulphur Management, General
###### ยง 256.7 Cross references.

(a) For Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) regulations governing exploration, development and production on leases, see 30 CFR parts 250 and 270.

(b) For BSEE regulations governing the appeal of an order or decision issued under the regulations in this part, see 30 CFR part 290.

(c) For multiple use conflicts, see the Environmental Protection Agency listing of ocean dumping sites-40 CFR part 228.

(d) For related National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration programs see:

(1) Marine sanctuary regulations, 15 CFR part 922;

(2) Fishermen's Contingency Fund, 50 CFR part 296;

(3) Coastal Energy Impact Program, 15 CFR part 931;

(e) For Coast Guard regulations on the oil spill liability of vessels and operators, see 33 CFR parts 132, 135, and 136.

(f) For Coast Guard regulations on port access routes, see 33 CFR part 164.

(g) For compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act, see 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508.

(h) For Department of Transportation regulations on offshore pipeline facilities, see 49 CFR part 195.

(i) For Department of Defense regulations on military activities on offshore areas, see 32 CFR part 252.

(j) For Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) regulations, see 30 CFR chapter V.
