
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 282 - OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR
##### Subpart C - Obligations and Responsibilities of Lessees
###### ยง 282.27 Conduct of operations.

(a) The lessee shall conduct all exploration, testing, development, and production activities and other operations in a safe and workmanlike manner and shall maintain equipment in a manner which assures the protection of the lease and its improvements, the health and safety of all persons, and the conservation of property, and the environment.

(b) Nothing in this part shall preclude the use of new or alternative technologies, techniques, procedures, equipment, or activities, other than those prescribed in the regulations of this part, if such other technologies, techniques, procedures, equipment, or activities afford a degree of protection, safety, and performance equal to or better than that intended to be achieved by the regulations of this part, provided the lessee obtains the written approval of the Director prior to the use of such new or alternative technologies, techniques, procedures, equipment, or activities.

(c) The lessee shall immediately notify the Director when there is a death or serious injury; fire, explosion, or other hazardous event which threatens damage to life, a mineral deposit, or equipment; spills of oil, chemical reagents, or other liquid pollutants which could cause pollution; or damage to aquatic life or the environment associated with operations on the lease. As soon as practical, the lessee shall file a detailed report on the event and action(s) taken to control the situation and to mitigate any further damage.

(d)(1) Lessees shall provide means, at all reasonable hours either day or night, for the Director to inspect or investigate the conditions of the operation and to determine whether applicable regulations; terms and conditions of the lease; and the requirements of the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan are being met.

(2) A lessee shall, on request by the Director, furnish food, quarters, and transportation for BSEE representatives to inspect its facilities. Upon request, you will be reimbursed by BSEE for the actual costs that you incur as a result of providing transportation to BSEE representatives. In addition, you will be reimbursed for the actual costs that you incur for providing food and quarters for a BSEE representative's stay of more than 12 hours. You must submit an invoice for reimbursement within 90 days of the inspection.

(e) Mining and processing vessels, platforms, structures, artificial islands, and mobile drilling units which have helicopter landing facilities shall be identified with at least one sign using letters and figures not less than 12 inches in height. Signs for structures without helicopter landing facilities shall be identified with at least one sign using letters and figures not less than 3 inches in height. Signs shall be affixed at a location that is visible to approaching traffic and shall contain the following information which may be abbreviated:

(1) Name of the lease operator;

(2) The area designation based on Official OCS Protraction Diagrams;

(3) The block number in which the facility is located; and

(4) Vessel, platform, structure, or rig name.
