
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 7.10 MSHA acceptance of equivalent non-MSHA product safety standards.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) MSHA will accept applications for motors under Subpart J designed and tested to the International Electrotechnical Commission's (IEC) standards for Electrical Apparatus for Explosive Gas Atmospheres, Part 0, General Requirements (IEC 60079-0, Fourth Edition, 2004-01) and Part 1, Electrical Apparatus for Explosive Gas Atmospheres, Flameproof Enclosures "d" (IEC 60079-1, Fifth Edition, 2003-11) (which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof) provided the modifications to the IEC standards specified in ยง 7.10(c)(1)(i) through (ix) are met. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The IEC standards may be inspected at the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Electrical Safety Division, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:These IEC standards may be obtained from International Electrical Commission, Central Office 3, rue de Varemb&#xE9;, P.O. Box 131, CH-1211 GENEVA 20, Switzerland.

(i) Enclosures associated with an electric motor assembly shall be made of metal and not have a compartment exceeding ten (10) feet in length. External surfaces of enclosures shall not exceed 150 &#xB0;C (302 &#xB0;F) in normal operation.

(ii) Enclosures shall be rugged in construction and should meet existing requirements for minimum bolt size and spacing and for minimum wall, cover, and flange thicknesses specified in paragraph (g)(19) of ยง 7.304 Technical requirements. Enclosure fasteners should be uniform in size and length, be provided at all corners, and be secured from loosening by lockwashers or equivalent. An engineering analysis shall be provided for enclosure designs that deviate from the existing requirements. The analysis shall show that the proposed enclosure design meets or exceeds the mechanical strength of a comparable enclosure designed to 150 psig according to existing requirements, and that flamepath clearances in excess of existing requirements will not be produced at an internal pressure of 150 psig. This shall be verified by explosion testing the enclosure at a minimum of 150 psig.

(iii) Enclosures shall be designed to withstand a minimum pressure of at least 150 psig without leakage through any welds or castings, rupture of any part that affects explosion-proof integrity, clearances exceeding those permitted under existing requirements along flame-arresting paths, or permanent distortion exceeding 0.040-inch per linear foot.

(iv) Flamepath clearances, including clearances between fasteners and the holes through which they pass, shall not exceed those specified in existing requirements. No intentional gaps in flamepaths are permitted.

(v) The minimum lengths of the flame arresting paths, based on enclosure volume, shall conform to those specified in existing requirements to the nearest metric equivalent value (e.g., 12.5 mm, 19 mm, and 25 mm are considered equivalent toinch,inch and 1 inch respectively for plane and cylindrical joints). The widths of any grooves for o-rings shall be deducted in measuring the widths of flame-arresting paths.

(vi) Gaskets shall not be used to form any part of a flame-arresting path. If o-rings are installed within a flamepath, the location of the o-rings shall meet existing requirements.

(vii) Cable entries into enclosures shall be of a type that utilizes either flame-resistant rope packing material or sealing rings (grommets). If plugs and mating receptacles are mounted to an enclosure wall, they shall be of explosion-proof construction. Insulated bushings or studs shall not be installed in the outside walls of enclosures. Lead entrances utilizing sealing compounds and flexible or rigid metallic conduit are not permitted.

(viii) Unused lead entrances shall be closed with a metal plug that is secured by spot welding, brazing, or equivalent.

(ix) Special explosion tests are required for electric motor assemblies that share leads (electric conductors) through a common wall with another explosion-proof enclosure, such as a motor winding compartment and a conduit box. These tests are required to determine the presence of any pressure piling conditions in either enclosure when one or more of the insulating barriers, sectionalizing terminals, or other isolating parts are sequentially removed from the common wall between the enclosures. Enclosures that exhibit pressures during these tests that exceed those specified in existing requirements must be provided with a warning tag. The durable warning tag must indicate that the insulating barriers, sectionalizing terminals, or other isolating parts be maintained in order to insure the explosion-proof integrity for either enclosure sharing a common wall. A warning tag is not required if the enclosures withstand a static pressure of twice the maximum value observed in the explosion tests.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) After MSHA has determined that non-MSHA product safety standards are equivalent and has notified the public of such determinations, applicants may seek MSHA product approval based on such non-MSHA product safety standards.
