
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 285 - RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ALTERNATE USES OF EXISTING FACILITIES ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 285.102 What are BSEE's responsibilities under this part?

(a) BSEE will ensure that any activities authorized in this part and 30 CFR parts 585 and 586 are carried out in a manner that provides for:

(1) Safety;

(2) Protection of the environment;

(3) Prevention of waste;

(4) Conservation of the natural resources of the OCS;

(5) Coordination with relevant Federal agencies (including, in particular, those agencies involved in planning activities that are undertaken to avoid conflicts among users and maximize the economic and ecological benefits of the OCS, including multifaceted spatial planning efforts);

(6) Protection of national security interests of the United States;

(7) Protection of the rights of other authorized users of the OCS; and

(8) Oversight, inspection, research, monitoring, and enforcement of activities authorized by a lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586.

(b) BSEE will require compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, other requirements, and the terms of your lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, and approved plans. BSEE will approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions any applications or other documents submitted to BSEE for approval under the provisions of this part.

(c) Unless otherwise provided in this part, BSEE may give oral directives or decisions whenever prior BSEE approval is required under this part. BSEE will document in writing any such oral directives within 10 business days.

(d) BSEE will establish practices and procedures to govern the collection of all payments due under this part to the Federal Government, including any cost recovery fees and other fees or payments. BSEE will do this in accordance with the terms of this part, the leasing notice, the lease or grant under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, and applicable Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR) regulations or guidance.
