
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 285 - RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ALTERNATE USES OF EXISTING FACILITIES ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Lease and Grant Administration
###### Noncompliance and Cessation Orders
####### ยง 285.400 What happens if I fail to comply with this part?

(a) BSEE may take appropriate corrective action under this part if you fail to comply with applicable provisions of Federal law, the regulations in this part, other applicable regulations, any order of the Director, the provisions of a lease or grant issued under 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, or the requirements of an approved plan or other approval under this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586.

(b) BSEE may issue to you a notice of noncompliance if we determine that there has been a violation of the regulations in this part, any order of the Director, or any provision of your lease, grant or other approval issued under this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586. When issuing a notice of noncompliance, BSEE will serve you at your last known address.

(c) A notice of noncompliance will tell you how you failed to comply with this part, any order of either Director, and/or the provisions of your lease, grant or other approval, and will specify what you must do to correct the noncompliance and the time limits within which you must act.

(d) Failure of a lessee, operator, or grant holder under this part to take the actions specified in a notice of noncompliance within the time limit specified provides the basis for BSEE to issue a cessation order as provided in ยง 285.401, and/or a cancellation of the lease or grant as provided in ยง 285.437.

(e) If BSEE determines that any incident of noncompliance poses an imminent threat of serious or irreparable damage to natural resources; life (including human and wildlife); property; the marine, coastal, or human environment; or sites, structures, or objects of historical or archaeological significance, BSEE may include with its notice of noncompliance an order directing you to take immediate remedial action to alleviate threats and to abate the violation and, when appropriate, a cessation order.

(f) BSEE may assess civil penalties, as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act, if you fail to comply with any provision of this part, or any term of a lease, grant, or order issued under the authority of this part or 30 CFR parts 585 or 586, after notice of such failure and expiration of any reasonable period allowed for corrective action. Civil penalties will be determined and assessed in accordance with the procedures set forth in 30 CFR part 550, subpart N.

(g) You may be subject to criminal penalties as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act.
