
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter II - Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Appeals
#### PART 291 - OPEN AND NONDISCRIMINATORY ACCESS TO OIL AND GAS PIPELINES UNDER THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
##### ยง 291.102 May I call the BSEE Hotline to informally resolve an allegation that open and nondiscriminatory access was denied?

Before filing a complaint under ยง 291.106, you may attempt to informally resolve an allegation concerning open and nondiscriminatory access by calling the toll-free BSEE Pipeline Open Access Hotline at 1-888-232-1713.

(a) BSEE Hotline staff will informally seek information needed to resolve the dispute. BSEE Hotline staff will attempt to resolve disputes without litigation or other formal proceedings. The Hotline staff will not attempt to resolve matters that are before BSEE or FERC in docketed proceedings.

(b) BSEE Hotline staff may provide information to you and give informal oral advice. The advice given is not binding on BSEE, the Department of the Interior (DOI), or any other person.

(c) To the extent permitted by law, the BSEE Hotline staff will treat all information it obtains as non-public and confidential.

(d) You may call the BSEE Hotline anonymously.

(e) If you contact the BSEE Hotline, you may file a complaint under this part if discussions assisted by BSEE Hotline staff are unsuccessful at resolving the matter.

(f) You may terminate use of the BSEE Hotline procedure at any time.
