
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter IV - Geological Survey, Department of the Interior
### PART 401 - STATE WATER RESEARCH INSTITUTE PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Designation of Institutes; Institute Programs
##### ยง 401.6 Designation of institutes.
###### i.e.,

(1) The institute is established at the college or university in the State that was established in accordance with the Act of July 21, 1862 (12 Stat. 503; 7 U.S.C. 301ff),a "land-grant" institution, or;

(2) If established at some other institution, the institute is at a college or university that has been designated by act of the legislature for the purposes of the Act, or;

(3) If there is more than one "land-grant" institution in the State, and no designation has been made according to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the institute has been established at the one such institution designated by the Governor of the State to participate in the program, or;

(4) The institute has been designated as an interstate or regional institute by two or more cooperating States as provided in the Act.

(b) The certification of designation made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall originate following the issuance of these regulations, be signed by the highest ranking officer of the college or university at which the institute is established and be submitted to the Director within 90 days of the effective date of these regulations. It shall be accompanied either by the evidence of establishment under the provisions of 30 CFR part 401 or by new evidence of establishment made pursuant to these regulations.

(c) Any institute not previously established under the provisions of the Water Resources Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-379, 78 Stat. 331) or the Water Research and Development Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-467, 92 Stat. 1305) shall also, in addition to the annual program application specified in ยง 401.11 of this chapter, submit to the Director the following information:

(1) Evidence of the appointment by the governing authority of the college or university of an officer to receive and account for all funds paid under the provisions of the Act and to make annual reports to the granting agency on work accomplished; and

(2) A management plan for meeting the requirements of the evaluation mandated by ยง 401.26.
