
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 20 - ELECTRIC MINE LAMPS OTHER THAN STANDARD CAP LAMPS
##### ยง 20.9 Class 2 lamps.
###### Safety.

(a)(1) Unless special features of the lamp prevent ignition of explosive mixtures of methane and air by the broken bulb or other igniting sources within the lamp, the bulb and all spark-producing parts must be enclosed in explosion-proof compartments.

(2) Explosion-proof compartments will be tested while filled and surrounded with explosive mixtures of Pittsburgh natural gasand air. A sufficient number of tests of each compartment will be made to prove that there is no danger of ignition of the mixture surrounding the lamp by explosions within the compartment. The lamp will not pass the above tests, even though the surrounding explosive mixtures are not ignited, if external flame is observed, if excessive pressures are developed, or if excessive distortion of any part of the compartment takes place.

(3) Glass-enclosed parts of such compartments must be guarded and be of extra-heavy glass to withstand pick blows, and be adequately protected by shrouds or by an automatic cut-out that opens the lamp circuit if the enclosure is broken.

(4) When an explosion-proof enclosure consists of two or more parts that are held together securely by bolts or some suitable means to permit assembly, the flanges comprising the joints between parts shall have surfaces with metal-to-metal contact, except enclosures requiring glass, in which case glass-to-metal joints are permitted. Gaskets, if adequate, may be used to obtain a firm seat for the glass but not elsewhere. Rubber, putty, and plaster of paris are not acceptable as material for gaskets. For enclosures having an unoccupied volume (air space) of more than 60 cubic inches the width of the joint measured along the shortest flame path from the inside to the outside of the enclosure shall not be less than 1 inch. When the unoccupied volume (air space) is less than 60 cubic inches, this path shall not be less than three-fourths inch.
