
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 550 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Plans and Information
###### Contents of Development and Production Plans (DPP) and Development Operations Coordination Documents (DOCD)
####### ยง 550.249 What air emissions information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?
######## Projected emissions.

(a)Tables showing the projected emissions of criteria air pollutants, volatile organic compounds (VOC), and total suspended particulates (TSP) generated by your proposed development and production activities.

(1) For each source on or associated with the facility you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities, you must list:

(i) The projected peak hourly emissions;

(ii) The total annual emissions in tons per year;

(iii) Emissions over the duration of the proposed development and production activities;

(iv) The frequency and duration of emissions; and

(v) The total of all emissions listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(2) If your proposed production and development activities would result in an increase in the emissions of a criteria air pollutant, VOC, or TSP from your facility to an amount greater than the amount specified in your previously approved DPP or DOCD, you must show the revised emission rates for each source as well as the incremental change for each source.

(3) You must provide the basis for all calculations, including engine size and rating, and applicable operational information.

(4) You must base the projected emissions on the maximum rated capacity of the equipment and the maximum throughput of the facility you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities under its physical and operational design.

(5) If the specific drilling unit has not yet been determined, you must use the maximum emission estimates for the type of drilling unit you will use.
