
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 550 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart C - Pollution Prevention and Control
###### ยง 550.304 Existing facilities.
####### Process leading to review of an existing facility.

(a)(1) An affected State may request that the Regional Supervisor supply basic emission data from existing facilities when such data are needed for the updating of the State's emission inventory. In submitting the request, the State must demonstrate that similar offshore and onshore facilities in areas under the State's jurisdiction are also included in the emission inventory.

(2) The Regional Supervisor may require lessees of existing facilities to submit basic emission data to a State submitting a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) The State submitting a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may submit information from its emission inventory which indicates that emissions from existing facilities may be significantly affecting the air quality of the onshore area of the State. The lessee shall be given the opportunity to present information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates that the facility is not significantly affecting the air quality of the State.

(4) The Regional Supervisor shall evaluate the information submitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section and shall determine, based on the basic emission data, available meteorological data, and the distance of the facility or facilities from the onshore area, whether any existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area of the State.

(5) If the Regional Supervisor determines that no existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area of the State submitting information under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Regional Supervisor shall notify the State of and explain the reasons for this finding.

(6) If the Regional Supervisor determines that an existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area of the State submitting information under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Regional Supervisor shall require the lessee to refer to the information requirements under ยง 550.218 or ยง 550.249 of this part and submit only that information required to make the necessary findings under paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. The lessee shall submit this information within 120 days of the Regional Supervisor's determination or within a longer period of time at the discretion of the Regional Supervisor. The lessee shall comply with the requirements of this section as necessary.
