
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 550 - OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart K - Oil and Gas Production Requirements.
###### Classifying Reservoirs
####### ยง 550.1154 How do I determine if my reservoir is sensitive?

(a) You must determine whether each reservoir is sensitive. You must classify the reservoir as sensitive if:

(1) Under initial conditions it is an oil reservoir with an associated gas cap;

(2) At any time there are near-critical fluids; or

(3) The reservoir is undergoing enhanced recovery.

(b) For the purposes of this subpart, near-critical fluids are:

(1) Those fluids that occur in high temperature, high-pressure reservoirs where it is not possible to define the liquid-gas contact; or

(2) Fluids in reservoirs that are near bubble point or dew point conditions.

(c) The Regional Supervisor may reclassify a reservoir when available information warrants reclassification.

(d) If available information indicates that a reservoir previously classified as non-sensitive is now sensitive, you must submit a request to the Regional Supervisor to reclassify the reservoir. You must include supporting information, as listed in the table in ยง 550.1167, with your request.

(e) If information indicates that a reservoir previously classified as sensitive is now non-sensitive, you may submit a request to the Regional Supervisor to reclassify the reservoir. You must include supporting information, as listed in the table in ยง 550.1167, with your request.
