
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 551 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL (G&G) EXPLORATIONS OF THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### ยง 551.14 Protecting and disclosing data and information submitted to BOEM under a permit.
###### Disclosure of data and information to the public by BOEM.

(a)(1) In making data and information available to the public, the Regional Director will follow the applicable requirements of:

(i) The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);

(ii) The implementing regulations at 43 CFR part 2;

(iii) The Act; and

(iv) The regulations at 30 CFR parts 550 and 552.

(2) Except as specified in this section or in 30 CFR parts 550 and 552, if the Regional Director determines any data or information is exempt from public disclosure under this paragraph (a), BOEM will not provide the data and information to any State or to the executive of any local government or to the public, unless you and all third parties agree to the disclosure.

(3) BOEM will keep confidential the identity of third party recipients of data and information collected under a permit. BOEM will not release the identity unless you and the third parties agree to the disclosure.

(4) When you detect any significant hydrocarbon occurrences or environmental hazards on unleased lands during drilling operations, the Regional Director will immediately issue a public announcement. The announcement must further the National interest, but without unduly damaging your competitive position.
