
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 551 - GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL (G&G) EXPLORATIONS OF THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### ยง 551.14 Protecting and disclosing data and information submitted to BOEM under a permit.
###### Timetable for release of G&G data and information related to oil, gas, and sulphur that BOEM acquires.

(b)Except for high-resolution data and information released under 30 CFR 550.197(b)(2), BOEM will release or disclose acquired data and information in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) If the data and information are not related to a deep stratigraphic test, BOEM will release them to the public in accordance with the following table:

(2) Permittees and third parties may apply to BOEM for an extension of the 25-year proprietary term for geophysical information reprocessed 20 or more years after BOEM issued the germane permit. You must submit the application to BOEM within 90 days after completion of the reprocessing, except during the initial 1-year grace period as provided in paragraph (b)(5) below. Filing locations are listed in ยง 551.5(d). Your application must include:

(i) Name and address of the permittee or third party;

(ii) Product name;

(iii) Identification of the geophysical information area;

(iv) Identification of originating permit number and date;

(v) Description of reprocessing performed;

(vi) Identification of the date of completion of reprocessing the geophysical information;

(vii) Certification that the product meets the definition of processed geophysical information and that all other information in the application is accurate; and

(viii) Signature and date.

(3) With each new reprocessing of permitted data, you may apply for an extension of up to 5 years. However, the maximum proprietary term for geophysical information is 50 years after the permit was issued. Once the maximum term is reached, the BOEM Regional Director will release the information to the public.

(4) Geophysical information processed or reprocessed 20 or more years after the germane permit was issued and granted the extension will be subject to submission, inspection, and selection criteria under ยง 551.12 and reimbursement criteria identified under ยง 551.13.

(5) There was a 1-year grace period, that started September 14, 2009, that allowed permittees and third parties sufficient time to meet the above requirements and apply for all eligible extensions. During that time, BOEM did not release geophysical information which was reprocessed 20 or more years after the date that the germane permit was issued.

(6) Since September 14, 2010, BOEM has resumed releasing eligible reprocessed information. If an application for extension was not filed, not filed on time, or not approved by BOEM, the original 25-year proprietary term applies to the release date of the reprocessed geophysical information.

(7) If the data and information are related to a deep stratigraphic test, BOEM will release them to the public at the earlier of the following times:

(i) Twenty-five years after you complete the test; or

(ii) If a lease sale is held after you complete a test well, 60-calendar days after BOEM issues the first lease, any portion of which is located within 50 geographic miles (92.7 kilometers) of the test.

(8) BOEM may allow limited inspection, but only by persons with a direct interest in related BOEM decisions and issues in specific geographic areas, and who agree in writing to its confidentiality, of G&G data and information submitted under this part that BOEM uses to:

(i) Make unitization determinations on two or more leases;

(ii) Make competitive reservoir determinations;

(iii) Ensure proper plans of development for competitive reservoirs;

(iv) Promote operational safety;

(v) Protect the environment;

(vi) Make field determinations; or

(vii) Determine eligibility for royalty relief.
