
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 552 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF (OCS) OIL AND GAS INFORMATION PROGRAM
##### ยง 552.4 Summary Report to affected States.

(a) The Director, as soon as practicable after analysis, interpretation, and compilation of oil and gas data and information developed by BOEM or furnished by lessees, permittees, or other government agencies, shall make available to affected States and, upon request, to the executive of any affected local government, a Summary Report of data and information designed to assist them in planning for the onshore impacts of potential OCS oil and gas development and production. The Director shall consult with affected States and other interested parties to define the nature, scope, content, and timing of the Summary Report. The Director may consult with affected States and other interested parties regarding subsequent revisions in the definition of the nature, scope, content, and timing of the Summary Report. The Summary Report shall not contain data or information which the Director determines is exempt from disclosure in accordance with this part. The Summary Report shall not contain data or information the release of which the Director determines would unduly damage the competitive position of the lessee or permittee who provided the data or information which the Director has processed, analyzed, or interpreted during the development of the Summary Report. The Summary Report shall include:

(1) Estimates of oil and gas reserves; estimates of the oil and gas resources that may be found within areas which the Secretary has leased or plans to offer for lease; and when available, projected rates and volumes of oil and gas to be produced from leased areas;

(2) Magnitude of the approximate projections and timing of development, if and when oil or gas, or both, is discovered;

(3) Methods of transportation to be used, including vessels and pipelines and approximate location of routes to be followed; and

(4) General location and nature of near-shore and onshore facilities expected to be utilized.

(b) When the Director determines that significant changes have occurred in the information contained in a Summary Report, the Director shall prepare and make available the new or revised information to each affected State, and, upon request, to the executive of any affected local government.
