
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 553 - OIL SPILL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR OFFSHORE FACILITIES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 553.5 What is the authority for collecting Oil Spill Financial Responsibility (OSFR) information?
####### et seq.,

(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part 553 under 44 U.S.C. 3501and assigned OMB control number 1010-0106.

(b) BOEM collects the information to ensure that the designated applicant for a COF has the financial resources necessary to pay for cleanup and damages that could be caused by oil discharges from the COF. BOEM uses the information to ensure compliance of offshore lessees, owners, and operators of covered facilities with OPA; to establish eligibility of designated applicants for OSFR certification (OSFRC); and to establish a reference source of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of responsible parties for covered facilities and their designated agents, guarantors, and U.S. agents for service of process for claims associated with oil pollution from designated covered facilities. The requirement to provide the information is mandatory. No information submitted for OSFRC is confidential or proprietary.

(c) An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

(d) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
