
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 553 - OIL SPILL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR OFFSHORE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Applicability and Amount of OSFR
###### ยง 553.11 Who must demonstrate OSFR?

(a) A designated applicant must demonstrate OSFR. A designated applicant may be a responsible party or another person authorized under this section. Each COF must have a single designated applicant.

(1) If there is more than one responsible party, those responsible parties must use Form BOEM-1017 to select a designated applicant. The designated applicant must submit Form BOEM-1016 and agree to demonstrate OSFR on behalf of all the responsible parties.

(2) If you are a designated applicant who is not a responsible party, you must agree to be liable for claims made under OPA jointly and severally with the responsible parties.

(b) The designated applicant for a COF on a lease must be either:

(1) A lessee; or

(2) The designated operator for the OCS lease under 30 CFR 550.143 or the unit operator designated under a Federally approved unit including the OCS lease. For a lease or unit not in the OCS, the operator designated under the lease or unit operating agreement for the lease may be the designated applicant only if the operator has agreed to be responsible for compliance with all the laws and regulations applicable to the lease or unit.

(c) The designated applicant for a COF on a permit must be the permittee.

(d) The designated applicant for a COF on a RUE must be the holder of the RUE or, if there is a pipeline on the RUE, the owner or operator of the pipeline.

(e) BOEM may require the designated applicant for a lease, permit, or RUE to be a person other than a person identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section if BOEM determines that a person identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) cannot adequately demonstrate OSFR.

(f) If you are a responsible party and you fail to designate an applicant, then you must demonstrate OSFR under the requirements of this part.
