
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 553 - OIL SPILL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR OFFSHORE FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - Applicability and Amount of OSFR
###### ยง 553.15 What are my general OSFR compliance responsibilities?

(a) You must maintain continuous OSFR coverage for all your leases, permits, and RUEs with COFs for which you are the designated applicant.

(b) You must ensure that new OSFR evidence is submitted before your current evidence lapses or is canceled and that coverage for your new COF is submitted before the COF goes into operation.

(c) If you use self-insurance to demonstrate OSFR and find that you no longer qualify to self-insure the required OSFR amount based upon your latest audited annual financial statements, then you must demonstrate OSFR using other methods acceptable to BOEM by whichever of the following dates comes first:

(1) Sixty calendar days after you receive your latest audited annual financial statement; or

(2) The first calendar day of the 5th month after the close of your fiscal year.

(d) You may use a surety bond to demonstrate OSFR. If you find that your bonding company has lost its state license or has had its U.S. Treasury Department certification revoked, then you must replace the surety bond within 15 calendar days using a method of OSFR that is acceptable to BOEM.

(e) You must notify BOEM in writing within 15 calendar days after a change occurs that would prevent you from meeting your OSFR obligations (e.g., if you or your indemnitor petition for bankruptcy under chapters 7 or 11 of Title 11, U.S.C.). You must take any action BOEM directs to ensure an acceptable OSFR demonstration.

(f) If you deny payment of a claim presented to you under ยง 553.60, then you must give the claimant a written explanation for your denial.
