
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 553 - OIL SPILL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR OFFSHORE FACILITIES
##### Subpart C - Methods for Demonstrating OSFR
###### ยง 553.29 How can I use insurance as OSFR evidence?
####### i.e.,

(2) No more than one insurance certificate may be used to cover each OSFR layer specified in ยง 553.13(b) (four layers for an OCS COF, and five layers for a non-OCS COF);

(3) You may use one insurance certificate to cover any number of consecutive OSFR layers;

(4) Each insurer's participation in the covered insurance risk must be on a proportional (quota share) basis, must be expressed as a percentage of a whole layer, and the certificate must not contain intermediate, horizontal layers;

(5) You may use an insurance deductible. If you use more than one insurance certificate, the deductible amount must apply only to the certificate that covers the base OSFR amount layer. To satisfy an insurance deductible, you may use only those methods that are acceptable as evidence of OSFR under this part; and

(6) You must identify a U.S. agent for service of process on each insurance certificate you submit to BOEM. The agent may be different for each insurance certificate.

(d) You may submit to BOEM a temporary insurance confirmation (fax binder) for each insurance certificate you use as OSFR evidence. Submit your fax binder on Form BOEM-1019, and each form must include the signature of an underwriter for at least one of the participating insurers. BOEM will accept your fax binder as OSFR evidence during a period that ends 90 days after the date that you need the insurance to demonstrate OSFR.
