
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 556.103 Cross references.

The following includes some of the major regulations relevant to offshore oil and gas development:

(a) For other applicable Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) oil and gas regulations, see 30 CFR parts 550 through 560.

(b) For Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) regulations governing exploration, development and production, and oil spill response, see 30 CFR chapter II.

(c) For Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR) regulations related to rentals, royalties, and fees, see 30 CFR chapter XII.

(d) For BOEM regulations governing the appeal of an order or decision issued under the regulations in this part, see 30 CFR part 590.

(e) For regulations on the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), see 40 CFR 1500-1508 and 43 CFR part 46.

(f) For ocean dumping sites, see the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) listing-40 CFR part 228.

(g) For air quality, see USEPA regulations at 40 CFR part 55 and BOEM regulations at 30 CFR part 550 subparts B and C.

(h) For related National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) programs, see:

(1) Marine Sanctuary regulations, 15 CFR part 922;

(2) Fishermen's Contingency Fund, 50 CFR part 296;

(3) Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), 15 CFR part 930;

(4) Essential Fish Habitat, 50 CFR 600.90.

(i) For U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) regulations on the oil spill liability of vessels and operators, see 33 CFR parts 132, 135, and 136.

(j) For USCG regulations on port access routes, see 33 CFR part 164.

(k) For Department of Transportation regulations on offshore pipeline facilities, see 49 CFR part 195.

(1) For Department of Defense regulations on military activities on offshore areas, see 32 CFR part 252.
