
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart C - Planning and Holding a Lease Sale
###### ยง 556.302 What does BOEM do with the information from the Call?

(a) Based upon information and nominations received in response to the Call, and in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, the Director will develop a recommendation of areas proposed for leasing for the Secretary for further consideration for leasing and/or environmental analysis.

(1) In developing the recommendation, the Director will consider available information concerning the environment, conflicts with other uses, resource potential, industry interest, and other relevant information, including comments received from State and local governments and other interested parties in response to the Call.

(2) The Director, on his/her own motion, may include in the recommendation areas in which interest has not been indicated in response to a Call. In making a recommendation, the Director will consider all available environmental information.

(3) Upon approval by the Secretary, the Director will announce the area identified in the.

(b) BOEM will evaluate the area(s) identified for further consideration for the potential effects of leasing on the human, marine, and coastal environments, and may develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts, including lease stipulations, for the options to be analyzed. The Director may hold public hearings on the environmental analysis after an appropriate notice.

(c) BOEM will seek to inform the public, as soon as possible, of changes from the area(s) proposed for leasing that occur after the Call process.

(d) Upon request, the Director will provide relative indications of interest in areas, as well as any comments filed in response to a Call for a proposed sale. However, no information transmitted will identify any particular area with the name of any particular party so as not to compromise the competitive position of any participants in the process of indicating interest.

(e) For supplemental sales provided for by ยง 556.308, the Director's recommendation will be replaced by a statement describing the results of the Director's consideration of the factors specified above in this section.
