
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Issuance of a Lease
###### How To Bid
####### ยง 556.501 What information do I need to submit with my bid?

In accordance with OCSLA section 18(a)(4) (43 U.S.C. 1344(a)(4)), BOEM must evaluate every bid to ensure that the federal government receives fair market value for every lease. Section 26(a)(1)(A) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1352(a)(1)(A)) provides that, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, any lessee or permittee conducting any exploration for, or development or production of, oil or gas must provide the Secretary access to all data and information (including processed, analyzed, and interpreted information) obtained from that activity and must provide copies of that data and information as the Secretary may request.

(a) As part of the lease sale process, every bidder submitting a bid on a tract, or participating as a joint bidder in such a bid, may at the time of bid be required to submit various information, including a Geophysical Data and Information Statement (GDIS) corresponding to that tract, as well as the bidder's exclusive/proprietary geophysical data in order for BOEM to properly evaluate the bid. If a GDIS required, each GDIS must include, as required by ยง 551.12(b) and (c) of this chapter:

(1) A list of geophysical surveys or other information used as part of the decision to bid or participate in a bid on the block.

(2) An accurate and complete record of each geophysical survey conducted, including digital navigational data and final location maps. The bidder and any joint bidder must include a map for each survey identified in the GDIS that illustrates the actual areal extent of the proprietary geophysical data.

(b) If a bidder is required to submit a GDIS, the GDIS must be submitted even if the bidder did not rely on proprietary geophysical data and information in deciding to bid or participate as a joint bidder in the bid for any particular block, and must include entries for all such blocks.

(c) The bidder must submit each GDIS in a separate and sealed envelope, or in an electronically readable spreadsheet format, with proprietary seismic data maps also available in an electronic format. Each bidder must submit the GDIS even if its joint bidder or bidders on a specific block also have submitted a GDIS.

(d) If BOEM requires additional information related to bidding, it will describe the additional information requirements in the final notice of sale.

(e) BOEM will reimburse bidders for the costs of complying with the requirements of this section, in accordance with ยง 550.196 (on lease) and/or ยง 551.13 (off lease) of this chapter.

(f) Bids that are not made in compliance with this section will be considered incomplete and invalid.
