
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Issuance of a Lease
###### Restrictions on Joint Bidding
####### ยง 556.513 When must I file a statement of production?

(a) You must file a statement of production if your average worldwide daily production exceeded 1.6 million barrels for the prior production period, as determined using the method set forth in ยง 556.514. Your statement of production must specify that you were chargeable with an average daily production in excess of 1.6 million barrels for the prior production period.

(b) The prior production periods are as follows:

(c) You must file the statement of production by the following deadlines:

(d) If you are required to file a statement of production, BOEM may require you to submit a detailed report of production.

(1) The detailed report of production must list crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas produced worldwide from reservoirs during the prior production period, and therefore chargeable to the prior production period.

(i) The amount of crude oil chargeable to the prior production period will be established by measurement of volumes delivered at the point of custody transfer (e.g., from storage tanks to pipelines, trucks, tankers, or other media for transport to refineries or terminals), with adjustments for net differences between opening and closing inventories, and basic sediment and water.

(ii) The amount of natural gas liquids chargeable to the prior production period must include gas liquefied at surface separators, field facilities, or gas processing plants.

(iii) The amount of natural gas chargeable to the prior production period must include adjustments, where applicable, to reflect the volume of gas returned to natural reservoirs, and the reduction of volume resulting from the removal of natural gas liquids and non-hydrocarbon gases.

(2) You must submit the detailed report of production within 30 days after receiving BOEM's request.

(3) BOEM may inspect and copy any document, record of production, analysis, and other material to verify the accuracy of any earlier statement of production.

(e) If you submit a statement of production that misrepresents your chargeable production, the Department may cancel any lease awarded in reliance upon the statement.
