
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Issuance of a Lease
###### How Does BOEM Act on Bids?
####### ยง 556.516 What does BOEM do with my bid?

(a) BOEM opens the sealed bids at the place, date, and hour specified in the final notice of sale for the sole purpose of publicly announcing and recording the bids. BOEM does not accept or reject any bids at that time.

(b) BOEM reserves the right to reject any and all bids received, regardless of the amount offered. BOEM accepts or rejects all bids within 90 days of opening. BOEM reserves the right to extend that time if necessary, and in that event, BOEM will notify bidder(s) in writing prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period, or of any extension. Any bid not accepted within the prescribed 90-day period, or any extension thereof, will be deemed rejected. If your bid is rejected, BOEM will refund any money deposited with your bid, plus any interest accrued.

(c) If the highest bids are a tie, BOEM will notify the bidders who submitted the tie bids. Within 15 days after notification, those bidders, if qualified, and not otherwise prohibited from bidding together, may:

(1) Agree to accept the lease jointly. The bidders must notify BOEM of their decision and submit a copy of their agreement to accept the lease jointly.

(2) Agree between/among themselves which bidder will accept the lease. The bidders must notify BOEM of their decision.

(d) If no agreement is submitted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, BOEM will reject all the tie bids.

(e) The Attorney General, in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, has 30 days to review the results of the lease sale before BOEM may accept the bid(s) and issue the lease(s).
