
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart I - Bonding or Other Financial Assurance
###### ยง 556.900 Bond requirements for an oil and gas or sulfur lease.

This section establishes bond requirements for the lessee of an OCS oil and gas or sulfur lease.

(a) Before BOEM will issue a new lease or approve the assignment of an existing lease to you as lessee, you or another record title owner for the lease must:

(1) Maintain with the Regional Director a $50,000 lease bond that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease; or

(2) Maintain a $300,000 area-wide bond that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of all your oil and gas and sulfur leases in the area where the lease is located; or

(3) Maintain a lease or area-wide bond in the amount required in ยง 556.901(a) or (b).

(b) For the purpose of this section, there are three areas. The three areas are:

(1) The Gulf of Mexico and the area offshore the Atlantic Coast;

(2) The area offshore the Pacific Coast States of California, Oregon, Washington, and Hawaii; and

(3) The area offshore the Coast of Alaska.

(c) The requirement to maintain a lease bond (or substitute security instrument) under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and ยง 556.901(a) and (b) may be satisfied if your operator or an operating rights owner provides a lease bond in the required amount that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease. Your operator or an operating rights owner may use an areawide bond under this paragraph to satisfy your bond obligation.

(d) If a surety makes payment to the United States under a bond or alternative form of security maintained under this section, the surety's remaining liability under the bond or alternative form of security is reduced by the amount of that payment. See paragraph (e) of this section for the requirement to replace the reduced bond coverage.

(e) If the value of your surety bond or alternative security is reduced because of a default or for any other reason, you must provide additional bond coverage sufficient to meet the security required under this subpart within 6 months, or such shorter period of time as the Regional Director may direct.

(f) You may pledge United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury) securities instead of a bond. The Treasury securities you pledge must be negotiable for an amount of cash equal to the value of the bond they replace.

(1) If you pledge Treasury securities under this paragraph (f), you must monitor their value. If their market value falls below the level of bond coverage required under this subpart, you must pledge additional Treasury securities to raise the value of the securities pledged to the required amount.

(2) If you pledge Treasury securities, you must include authority for the Regional Director to sell them and use the proceeds in the event that the Regional Director determines that you fail to satisfy any lease obligation.

(g) You may pledge alternative types of security instruments instead of providing a bond if the Regional Director determines that the alternative security protects the interests of the United States to the same extent as the required bond.

(1) If you pledge an alternative type of security under this paragraph, you must monitor the security's value. If its market value falls below the level of bond coverage required under this subpart, you must pledge additional securities to raise the value of the securities pledged to the required amount.

(2) If you pledge an alternative type of security, you must include authority for the Regional Director to sell the security and use the proceeds when the Regional Director determines that you failed to satisfy any lease obligation.

(h) If you fail to replace a deficient bond or to provide additional bond coverage upon demand, the Regional Director may:

(1) Assess penalties under part 550, subpart N of this chapter;

(2) Suspend production and other operations on your leases in accordance with 30 CFR 250.173; and

(3) Initiate action to cancel your lease.
