
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart I - Bonding or Other Financial Assurance
###### ยง 556.901 Additional bonds.

(a) This paragraph explains what bonds you must provide before lease exploration activities commence.

(1)(i) You must furnish the Regional Director a $200,000 bond that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease by the earliest of:

(A) The date you submit a proposed exploration plan (EP) for approval; or

(B) The date you submit a request for approval of the assignment of a lease on which an EP has been approved.

(ii) The Regional Director may authorize you to submit the $200,000 lease exploration bond after you submit an EP, but before approval of drilling activities under the EP.

(iii) You may satisfy the bond requirement of this paragraph (a) by providing a new bond or by increasing the amount of your existing bond.

(2) A $200,000 lease exploration bond pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section need not be submitted and maintained if the lessee either:

(i) Furnishes and maintains an areawide bond in the sum of $1 million issued by a qualified surety and conditioned on compliance with all the terms and conditions of oil and gas and sulfur leases held by the lessee on the OCS for the area in which the lease is situated; or

(ii) Furnishes and maintains a bond pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(b) This paragraph explains what bonds you (the lessee) must provide before lease development and production activities commence.

(1)(i) You must furnish the Regional Director a $500,000 bond that guarantees compliance with all the terms and conditions of the lease by the earliest of:

(A) The date you submit a proposed development and production plan (DPP) or development operations coordination document (DOCD) for approval; or

(B) The date you submit a request for approval of the assignment of a lease on which a DPP or DOCD has been approved.

(ii) The Regional Director may authorize you to submit the $500,000 lease development bond after you submit a DPP or DOCD, but before he/she approves the installation of a platform or the commencement of drilling activities under the DPP or DOCD.

(iii) You may satisfy the bond requirement of this paragraph by providing a new bond or by increasing the amount of your existing bond.

(2) You need not submit and maintain a $500,000 lease development bond pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section if you furnish and maintain an areawide bond in the sum of $3 million issued by a qualified surety and conditioned on compliance with all the terms and conditions of oil and gas and sulfur leases you hold on the OCS for the area in which the lease is located.

(c) If you can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the authorized officer that you can satisfy your decommissioning obligations for less than the amount of lease bond coverage required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the authorized officer may accept a lease surety bond in an amount less than the prescribed amount, but not less than the amount of the cost for decommissioning.
