
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart I - Bonding or Other Financial Assurance
###### ยง 556.901 Additional bonds.
####### i.e.,

(d) The Regional Director may determine that additional security (security above the amounts prescribed in ยง 556.900(a) and paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section) is necessary to ensure compliance with the obligations under your lease, the regulations in this chapter, and the regulations in 30 CFR chapters II and XII.

(1) The Regional Director's determination will be based on his/her evaluation of your ability to carry out present and future financial obligations demonstrated by:

(i) Financial capacity substantially in excess of existing and anticipated lease and other obligations, as evidenced by audited financial statements (including auditor's certificate, balance sheet, and profit and loss sheet);

(ii) Projected financial strength significantly in excess of existing and future lease obligations based on the estimated value of your existing OCS lease production and proven reserves for future production;

(iii) Business stability based on five years of continuous operation and production of oil and gas or sulfur in the OCS or in the onshore oil and gas industry;

(iv) Reliability in meeting obligations based on:

(A) Credit rating; or

(B) Trade references, including names and addresses of other lessees, drilling contractors, and suppliers with whom you have dealt; and

(v) Record of compliance with laws, regulations, and lease terms.

(2) You may satisfy the Regional Director's demand for additional security by increasing the amount of your existing bond or by providing additional bond or bonds.

(e) The Regional Director will determine the amount of additional bond required to guarantee compliance. The Regional Director will consider potential underpayment of royalty and cumulative decommissioning obligations.

(f) If your cumulative potential obligations and liabilities either increase or decrease, the Regional Director may adjust the amount of additional bond required.

(1) If the Regional Director proposes an adjustment, the Regional Director will:

(i) Notify you and the surety of any proposed adjustment to the amount of bond required; and

(ii) Give you an opportunity to submit written or oral comment on the adjustment.

(2) If you request a reduction of the amount of additional bond required, you must submit evidence to the Regional Director demonstrating that the projected amount of royalties due the Government and the estimated costs of decommissioning are less than the required bond amount. If the Regional Director finds that the evidence you submit is convincing, the Regional Director may reduce the amount of additional bond required.
