
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart I - Bonding or Other Financial Assurance
###### ยง 556.902 General requirements for bonds.

(a) Any bond or other security that you, as lessee, operating rights owner or operator, provide under this part must:

(1) Be payable upon demand to the Regional Director;

(2) Guarantee compliance with all of your obligations under the lease, regulations in this chapter, and regulations under 30 CFR chapters II and XII; and

(3) Guarantee compliance with the obligations of all lessees, operating rights owners and operators on the lease.

(b) All bonds and pledges you furnish under this part must be on a form or in a form approved by the Director. Surety bonds must be issued by a surety that the Treasury certifies as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds and that is listed in the current Treasury Circular No. 570. You may obtain a copy of the current Treasury Circular No. 570 from the Surety Bond Branch, Financial Management Service, Department of the Treasury, East-West Highway, Hyattsville, MD 20782.

(c) You and a qualified surety must execute your bond. When either party is a corporation, an authorized official for the party must sign the bond and attest to it by an imprint of the corporate seal.

(d) Bonds must be non-cancellable, except as provided in ยง 556.906 of this part. Bonds must continue in full force and effect even though an event occurs that could diminish, terminate, or cancel a surety obligation under State surety law.

(e) Lease bonds must be:

(1) A surety bond;

(2) Treasury securities as provided in ยง 556.900(f);

(3) Another form of security approved by the Regional Director; or

(4) A combination of these security methods.

(f) You may submit a bond to the Regional Director executed on a form approved under paragraph (b) of this section that you have reproduced or generated by use of a computer. If you do, and if the document omits terms or conditions contained on the form approved by the Director, the bond you submit will be deemed to contain the omitted terms and conditions.
