
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart I - Bonding or Other Financial Assurance
###### ยง 556.904 Lease-specific abandonment accounts.

(a) The Regional Director may authorize you to establish a lease-specific abandonment account in a federally insured institution in lieu of the bond required under ยง 556.901(d). The account must provide that, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, funds may not be withdrawn without the written approval of the Regional Director.

(1) Funds in a lease-specific abandonment account must be payable upon demand to BOEM and pledged to meet your decommissioning obligations.

(2) You must fully fund the lease-specific abandonment account to cover all decommissioning costs as estimated by BOEM within the timeframe the Regional Director prescribes.

(3) You must provide binding instructions under which the institution managing the account is to purchase Treasury securities pledged to BOEM under paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) Any interest paid on funds in a lease-specific abandonment account will be treated as other funds in the account unless the Regional Director authorizes in writing the payment of interest to the party who deposits the funds.

(c) The Regional Director may allow you to pledge Treasury securities that are made payable upon demand to the Regional Director to satisfy your obligation to make payments into a lease-specific abandonment account.

(d) Before the amount of funds in a lease-specific abandonment account equals the maximum insurable amount as determined by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, the institution managing the account must use the funds in the account to purchase Treasury securities pledged to BOEM under paragraph (c) of this section. The institution managing the lease specific-abandonment account will join with the Regional Director to establish a Federal Reserve Circular 154 account to hold these Treasury securities, unless the Regional Director authorizes the managing institution to retain the pledged Treasury securities in a separate trust account. You may obtain a copy of the current Treasury Circular No. 154 from the Surety Bond Branch, Financial Management Service, Department of the Treasury, East-West Highway, Hyattsville, MD 20782.

(e) The Regional Director may require you to create an overriding royalty or production payment obligation for the benefit of a lease-specific account pledged for the decommissioning of a lease. The required obligation may be associated with oil and gas or sulfur production from a lease other than the lease bonded through the lease-specific abandonment account.
