
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart I - Bonding or Other Financial Assurance
###### ยง 556.905 Using a third-party guarantee instead of a bond.
####### Required criteria for indemnity agreements.

(e)If the Regional Director approves your third-party guarantee, the guarantor must submit an indemnity agreement.

(1) The indemnity agreement must be executed by your guarantor and all persons and parties bound by the agreement.

(2) The indemnity agreement must bind each person and party executing the agreement jointly and severally.

(3) When a person or party bound by the indemnity agreement is a corporate entity, two corporate officers who are authorized to bind the corporation must sign the indemnity agreement.

(4) Your guarantor and the other corporate entities bound by the indemnity agreement must provide the Regional Director copies of:

(i) The authorization of the signatory corporate officials to bind their respective corporations;

(ii) An affidavit certifying that the agreement is valid under all applicable laws; and

(iii) Each corporation's corporate authorization to execute the indemnity agreement.

(5) If your third-party guarantor or another party bound by the indemnity agreement is a partnership, joint venture, or syndicate, the indemnity agreement must:

(i) Bind each partner or party who has a beneficial interest in your guarantor; and

(ii) Provide that, upon demand by the Regional Director under your third-party guarantee, each partner is jointly and severally liable for compliance with all terms and conditions of your lease.

(6) When forfeiture is called for under ยง 556.907, the indemnity agreement must provide that your guarantor will either:

(i) Bring your lease into compliance; or

(ii) Provide, within 7 calendar days, sufficient funds to permit the Regional Director to complete corrective action.

(7) The indemnity agreement must contain a confession of judgment. It must provide that, if the Regional Director determines that you, your operator, or an operating rights owner is in default of the lease, the guarantor:

(i) Will not challenge the determination; and

(ii) Will remedy the default.

(8) Each indemnity agreement is deemed to contain all terms and conditions contained in this paragraph (e), even if the guarantor has omitted them.
