
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 556 - LEASING OF SULFUR OR OIL AND GAS AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart K - Ending a Lease
###### ยง 556.1102 Under what circumstances will BOEM cancel my lease?

(a) BOEM may cancel your non-producing lease if you fail to comply with any provision of OCSLA, the lease, or applicable regulations if the failure continues for 30 days after mailing of notice to your post office address of record by registered mail and you have not requested and been granted any additional time within which to correct the failure. Such cancellation is subject to judicial review under section 23 of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1349).

(b) Your producing lease may be cancelled if you fail to comply with any provision of OCSLA, the lease, or applicable regulations. The Secretary will cancel a producing lease after the judicial proceedings required under section 5(d) of OCSLA (43 U.S.C. 1334(d)).

(c) BOEM may cancel your lease if it determines that the lease was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation. You will have notice and an opportunity to be heard before BOEM cancels your lease.

(d) BOEM may cancel your lease at any time if it determines, after a hearing, that continued activity will probably cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any mineral, national security or defense, or the marine, coastal, or human environment; that the threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable level within a reasonable period of time; and the advantages of cancellation outweigh the advantages of continuing the lease.

(e) BOEM may cancel your lease at any time after operations under the lease have been suspended or temporarily prohibited by the Department continuously for a period of five years pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, absent your request for a shorter period.

(f) If, upon demand, you fail to provide a bond, or alternative type of security instrument acceptable to BOEM, the Regional Director may assess penalties or cancel your lease in accordance with part 550, subpart N of this chapter;

(g) Title 30, part 550, subpart A of the CFR provides the procedures for lease cancellation and compensation, if applicable.
