
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 560 - OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS LEASING
##### Subpart B - Bidding Systems
###### Royalty Suspension (RS) Leases
####### § 560.224 How will royalty suspension apply if BOEM assigns a lease issued in a sale held after November 2000 to a field that has a pre-Act lease?

(a) We will assign your lease that has a qualifying well (under 30 CFR part 250, subpart A) to an existing field or designate a new field and will notify you and other affected lessees and operating rights holders in the field of that assignment.

(1) Within 15 days of the final notification, you or any of the other affected lessees or operating rights holders may file a written request with the Director for reconsideration, accompanied by a Statement of Reasons.

(2) The Director will respond in writing either affirming or reversing the assignment decision. The Director's decision is the final action of the Department of the Interior and is not subject to appeal to the Interior Board of Land Appeals under 30 CFR part 590 and 43 CFR part 4.

(b) If we establish a royalty suspension volume for a field as a result of an approved application for royalty relief submitted for a pre-Act lease under 30 CFR part 203, then:

(1) Royalty-free production from your RS lease shares from and counts as part of any royalty suspension volume under § 560.114(d) for the field to which we assign your lease; and

(2) Your RS lease may continue to produce royalty-free up to the royalty suspension we specified for your lease, even if the field to which we assign your RS lease has produced all of its royalty suspension volume.

(c) Your lease may share in a suspension volume larger than the royalty suspension with which we issued it and to the extent we grant a larger volume in response to an application by a pre-Act lease submitted under 30 CFR part 203. To share in any larger royalty suspension volume, you must file an application described in 30 CFR part 203 (§§ 203.71 and 203.83). In no case will royalty-free production for your RS lease be less than the royalty suspension specified for your lease.
