
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 580 - PROSPECTING FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Data Requirements
###### Geophysical Data and Information
####### ยง 580.50 When do I notify BOEM that geophysical data and information are available for submission, inspection, and selection?

(a) You must notify the Regional Director in writing when you complete the initial processing and interpretation of any geophysical data and information. Initial processing is the stage of processing where the data and information become available for in-house interpretation by the permittee, or become available commercially to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.

(b) The Regional Director may ask whether you have further processed or interpreted any geophysical data and information. When asked, you must respond to us in writing within 30 days.

(c) The Regional Director may request that the permittee or third party submit geophysical data and information before making a final selection for retention. Our representatives may inspect and select the data and information on your premises, or the Regional Director can request delivery of the data and information to the appropriate regional office for review.

(d) You must submit the geophysical data and information within 30 days of receiving the request, unless the Regional Director extends the delivery time.

(e) At any time before final selection, the Regional Director may review and return any or all geophysical data and information. We will notify you in writing of any data the RD decides to retain.
