
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 580 - PROSPECTING FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Data Requirements
###### Protections
####### ยง 580.73 Will BOEM share data and information with coastal States?

(a) We can disclose proprietary data, information, and samples submitted to us by permittees or third parties that we receive under this part to the Governor of any adjacent State that requests it according to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. The permittee or third parties who submitted proprietary data, information, and samples will be notified about the disclosure and will have at least five working days to comment on the action.

(b) We will make a disclosure under this section only after the Governor and the Secretary have entered into an agreement containing all of the following provisions:

(1) The confidentiality of the information will be maintained.

(2) In any action taken for failure to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information, neither the Federal Government nor the State may raise as a defense:

(i) Any claim of sovereign immunity; or

(ii) Any claim that the employee who revealed the proprietary information was acting outside the scope of his/her employment in revealing the information.

(3) The State agrees to hold the Federal Government harmless for any violation by the State or its employees or contractors of the agreement to protect the confidentiality of proprietary data and information and samples.

(4) The materials containing the proprietary data, information, and samples will remain the property of the Federal Government.

(c) The data, information, and samples available for reproduction to the State(s) under an agreement must be related to leased lands. Data and information on unleased lands may be viewed but not copied or reproduced.

(d) The State must return to us the materials containing the proprietary data, information, and samples when we ask for them or when the State no longer needs them.

(e) Information received and knowledge gained by a State official under paragraph (d) of this section is subject to confidentiality requirements of:

(1) The Act; and

(2) The regulations at 30 CFR parts 580, 581, and 582.
