
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 580 - PROSPECTING FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Information Collection
###### ยง 580.80 Paperwork Reduction Act statement - information collection.
####### et seq.

(a) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements in this part under 44 U.S.C. 3501and assigned OMB control number 1010-0072. The title of this information collection is "30 CFR part 580, Prospecting for Minerals other than Oil, Gas, and Sulphur on the Outer Continental Shelf."

(b) We may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

(c) We use the information collected under this part to:

(1) Evaluate permit applications and monitor scientific research activities for environmental and safety reasons.

(2) Determine that prospecting does not harm resources, result in pollution, create hazardous or unsafe conditions, or interfere with other users in the area.

(3) Approve reimbursement of certain expenses.

(4) Monitor the progress and activities carried out under an OCS prospecting permit.

(5) Inspect and select G&G data and information collected under an OCS prospecting permit.

(d) Respondents are Federal OCS permittees and notice filers. Responses are mandatory or are required to obtain or retain a benefit. We will protect information considered proprietary under applicable law and under regulations at ยง 580.70 and 30 CFR part 581.

(e) Send comments regarding any aspect of the collection of information under this part, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 45600 Woodland Road, Sterling, VA 20166.
