
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 581 - LEASING OF MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Leasing Procedures
###### ยง 581.11 Unsolicited request for a lease sale.

(a) Any person may at any time request that OCS minerals be offered for lease. A request that OCS minerals be offered for lease shall be submitted to the Director and shall contain the following information:

(1) The area to be offered for lease.

(2) The OCS minerals of primary interest.

(3) The available OCS mineral resource and environmental information pertaining to the area of interest to be offered for lease which supports the request.

(b) Within 45 days after receipt of a request submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, the Director shall either initiate steps leading to the offer of OCS minerals for lease and notify the applicant of the action taken or inform the applicant of the reasons for not initiating steps leading to the offer of OCS minerals for lease.

(c) Any interested party may at any time submit information to the Director concerning the scheduling of proposed lease sales of OCS minerals in any area of the OCS. Such information may include but not be limited to any of the following:

(1) Benefits of conducting a lease sale in an area.

(2) Costs of conducting a lease sale in an area.

(3) Geohazards which could be encountered in an area.

(4) Geological information about an area and mineral resource potential.

(5) Environmental information about an area.

(6) Information about known archaeological resources in an area.
