
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 581 - LEASING OF MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Leasing Procedures
###### ยง 581.18 Bidding system.

(a) The OCS minerals shall be offered by competitive, cash bonus bidding under terms and conditions specified in the leasing notice and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.

(b)(1) When the leasing notice specifies the use of sealed bids, such bids received in response to the leasing notice shall be opened at the place, date, and time specified in the leasing notice. The sole purpose of opening bids is to publicly announce and record the bids received, and no bids shall be accepted or rejected at that time.

(2) The Secretary reserves the right to reject any and all sealed bids received for any tract, regardless of the amount offered.

(3) In the event the highest bids are tie bids when using sealed bidding procedures, the tied bidders may be permitted to submit oral bids to determine the highest cash bonus bidder.

(c)(1) When the leasing notice specifies the use of oral bids, oral bids shall be received at the place, time, and date and in accordance with the procedures specified in the leasing notice.

(2) The Secretary reserves the right to reject all oral bids received for any tract, regardless of the amount offered.

(d) When the leasing notice specifies the use of deferred cash bonus bidding, bids shall be received in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as appropriate. The high bid will be determined based upon the net present value of each total bid. The appropriate discount rate will be specified in the leasing notice. High bidders using the deferred bonus option shall pay a minimum of 20 percent of the cash bonus bid prior to lease issuance. At least a total of 60 percent of the cash bonus bid shall be due on or before the 5th anniversary of the lease, and payment of the remainder of the cash bonus bid shall be due on the 10th anniversary of the lease. The lessee shall submit a bond guaranteeing payment of the deferred portion of the bonus, in accordance with ยง 581.33.
