
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 581 - LEASING OF MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Leasing Procedures
###### ยง 581.20 Submission of bids.

(a) If the bidder is an individual, a statement of citizenship shall accompany the bid.

(b) If the bidder is an association (including a partnership), the bid shall be accompanied by a certified statement indicating the State in which it is registered and that the association is authorized to hold mineral leases on the OCS, or appropriate reference to statements or records previously submitted to a BOEM OCS office (including material submitted in compliance with prior regulations).

(c) If the bidder is a corporation, the bid shall be accompanied by the following information:

(1) Either a statement certified by the corporate Secretary or Assistant Secretary over the corporate seal showing the State in which it was incorporated and that it is authorized to hold mineral leases on the OCS or appropriate reference to statements or record previously submitted to a BOEM OCS office (including material submitted in compliance with prior regulations).

(2) Evidence of authority of persons signing to bind the corporation. Such evidence may be in the form of a certified copy of either the minutes of the board of directors or of the bylaws indicating that the person signing has authority to do so, or a certificate to that effect signed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the corporation over the corporate seal, or appropriate reference to statements or records previously submitted to a BOEM OCS office (including material submitted in compliance with prior regulations). Bidders are advised to keep their filings current.

(3) The bid shall be executed in conformance with corporate requirements.

(d) Bidders should be aware of the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1860, which prohibits unlawful combination or intimidation of bidders.

(e) When sealed bidding is specified in the leasing notice, a separate sealed bid shall be submitted for each bid unit that is bid upon as described in the leasing notice. A bid may not be submitted for less than a bidding unit identified in the leasing notice.

(f) When oral bidding is specified in the leasing notice, information which must accompany a bid pursuant to paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, shall be presented to BOEM at the lease sale prior to the offering of an oral bid.
