
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 581 - LEASING OF MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Leasing Procedures
###### ยง 581.21 Award of leases.

(a)(1) The decision of the Director on bids shall be the final action of the Department, subject only to reconsideration by the Secretary, pursuant to a written request in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The delegation of review authority to the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall not be applicable to decisions on high bids for leases in the OCS.

(2) Any bidder whose bid is rejected by the Director may file a written request for reconsideration with the Secretary within 15 days of notice of rejection, accompanied by a statement of reasons with a copy to the Director. The Secretary shall respond in writing either affirming or reversing the decision.

(b) Written notice of the Director's action in accepting or rejecting bids shall be transmitted promptly to those bidders whose deposits have been held. If a bid is accepted, such notice shall transmit three copies of the lease form to the successful bidder. As provided in ยง 581.26 of this part, the bidder shall, not later than the 10th business day after receipt of the lease, execute the lease, pay the first year's rental, and unless payment of a portion of the bid is deferred, pay the balance of the bonus bid. When payment of a portion of the bid is deferred, the successful bidder shall also file a bond to guarantee payment of the deferred portion as required in ยง 581.33. Deposits shall be refunded on high bids subsequently rejected. When three copies of the lease have been executed by the successful bidder and returned to the Director, the lease shall be executed on behalf of the United States; and one fully executed copy shall be transmitted to the successful bidder.

(c) If the successful bidder fails to execute the lease within the prescribed time or to otherwise comply with the applicable regulations, the successful bidder's deposit shall be forfeited and disposed of in the same manner as other receipts under the Act.

(d) If, before the lease is executed on behalf of the United States, the land which would be subject to the lease is withdrawn or restricted from leasing, the deposit shall be refunded.

(e) If the awarded lease is executed by an agent acting on behalf of the bidder, the bidder shall submit with the executed lease, evidence that the agent is authorized to act on behalf of the bidder.
