
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 581 - LEASING OF MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart C - Financial Considerations
###### ยง 581.26 Payments.

(a) For sealed bids, a bonus bid deposit of a specified percentage of the total amount bid is required to be submitted with the bid. The percentage of bonus bid required to be deposited will be specified in the leasing notice. The remittance may be made in cash or by Federal Reserve check, commercial check, bank draft, money order, certified check, or cashier's check made payable to "Department of the Interior-BOEM." Payment of this portion of the bonus bid may not be made by Electronic Funds Transfer.

(b) For oral bids, a bonus bid deposit of a specified percentage of the total amount bid must be submitted to the official designated in the leasing notice following the completion of the oral bidding. The percentage of bonus bid required to be deposited will be specified in the leasing notice. Payment of this portion of the bonus bid must be made by Electronic Fund Transfer within the timeframe specified in the leasing notice.

(c) The deposit received from high bidders will be placed in a Treasury account pending acceptance or rejection of the bid. Other bids submitted under paragraph (a) of this section will be returned to the bidders. If the high bid is subsequently rejected, an amount equal to that deposited with the high bid will be returned according to applicable regulations.

(d) The balance of the winning bonus bid and all rentals and royalties must be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of this part, the Leasing Notice, and subchapter A of this chapter.

(e) For each lease issued pursuant to this subpart, there shall be one person identified who shall be solely responsible for all payments due and payable under the provisions of the lease. The single responsible person shall be designated as the payor for the lease and shall be so identified on the Solid Minerals Production and Royalty Report (P&R) (Form ONRR-4430) in accordance with 30 CFR 1210.201 of this title. The designated person shall be responsible for all bonus, rental, and royalty payments.

(f) Royalty shall be computed at the rate specified in the leasing notice, and paid in value unless the Secretary elects to have the royalty delivered in kind.

(g) For leases which provide for minimum royalty payments, each lessee shall pay the minimum royalty specified in the lease at the end of each lease year beginning with the lease year in which production royalty is paid (whether the full amount specified in the lease orthe amount specified in the lease pursuant to ยง 581.28(b) on this part) of OCS minerals produced (sold, transferred, used, or otherwise disposed of) from the leasehold.

(h)(1) Unless stated otherwise in the lease, product valuation will be in accordance with the regulations in part 1206 of chapter XII. The value used in the computation of royalty shall be determined by the Director of the Office of Natural Resources Revenue. The value, for royalty purposes, shall be the gross proceeds received by the lessee for produced substances at the point the product is produced and placed in its first marketable condition, consistent with prevailing practices in the industry. In establishing the value, the Director shall consider, in this order:

(i) The price received by the lessee;

(ii) Commodity and spot market transactions;

(iii) Any other valuation method proposed by the lessee and approved by the Director; and

(iv) Value or cost netback.

(2) For non-arm's length transactions, the first benchmark will only be accepted if it is not less than the second benchmark.

(i) All payors must submit payments and payment forms and maintain auditable records in accordance with 30 CFR chapter XII, Subchapter A-Natural Resources Revenue.
