
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart B - Brattice Cloth and Ventilation Tubing
###### ยง 7.26 Flame test apparatus.

The principal parts of the apparatus used to test for flame-resistance of brattice cloth and ventilation tubing shall be constructed as follows:

(a) A 16-gauge stainless steel gallery lined on the top, bottom and both sides withinch thick Marinite or equivalent insulating material yielding inside dimensions approximately 58 inches long, 41 inches high, and 30 inches wide;

(b) Two-inch diameter steel J hooks and a-inch diameter steel rod to support the sample located approximately 2-inches from the front and back ends of the test gallery, 1-inches from the ceiling insulation and centrally located in the gallery along its length. Samples shall be suspended to preclude folds or wrinkles;

(c) A tapered 16-gauge stainless steel duct section tapering from a cross sectional area measuring 2 feet 7 inches wide by 3 feet 6 inches high at the test gallery to a cross-sectional area 1 foot 6 inches square over a length of 3 feet. The tapered duct section must be tightly connected to the test gallery;

(d) A 16-gauge stainless steel fan housing, consisting of a 1 foot 6 inches square section 6 inches long followed by a 10 inch long section which tapers from 1 foot 16 inches square to 12 inches diameter round and concluding with a 12 inch diameter round collar 3 inches long. A variable speed fan capable of producing an air velocity of 125 ft./min. in the test gallery must be secured in the fan housing. The fan housing must be tightly connected to the tapered duct section;

(e) A methane-fueled impinged jet burner igniting source, measuring 12 inches long from the threaded ends of the first and last jets and 4 inches wide with 12 impinged jets, approximately 1-inches long and spaced alternately along the length of the burner tube. The burner jets must be canted so that they point toward each other in pairs and the flame from these pairs impinge upon each other.
