
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 582 - OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 582.4 Opportunities for review and comment.

(a) In carrying out BOEM's responsibilities under the Act and regulations in this part, the Director shall provide opportunities for Governors of adjacent States, State/Federal task forces, lessees and operators, other Federal Agencies, and other interested parties to review proposed activities described in a Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan together with an analysis of potential impacts on the environment and to provide comments and recommendations for the disposition of the proposed plan.

(b)(1) For Delineation Plans, the adjacent State Governor(s) shall be notified by the Director within 15 days following the submission of a request for approval of a Delineation Plan. Notification shall include a copy of the proposed Delineation Plan and the accompanying environmental information. The adjacent State Governor(s) who wishes to comment on a proposed Delineation Plan may do so within 30 days of the receipt of the proposed plan and the accompanying information.

(2) In cases where an Environmental Assessment is to be prepared, the Director's invitation to provide comments may allow the adjacent State Governor(s) more than 30 days following receipt of the proposed plan to provide comments.

(3) The Director shall notify Federal Agencies, as appropriate, with a copy of the proposed Delineation Plan and the accompanying environmental information within 15 days following the submission of the request. Agencies that wish to comment on a proposed Delineation Plan shall do so within 30 days following receipt of the plan and the accompanying information.

(c)(1) For Testing Plans, the adjacent State Governor(s) shall be notified by the Director within 20 days following submission of a request for approval of a proposed Testing Plan. Notification shall include a copy of the proposed Testing Plan and the accompanying environmental information. The adjacent State Governor(s) who wishes to comment on a proposed Testing Plan may do so within 60 days of the receipt of a plan and the accompanying information.

(2) In cases where an EIS is to be prepared, the Director's invitation to provide comments may allow the adjacent State Governor(s) more than 60 days following receipt of the proposed plan to provide comments.

(3) The Director shall notify Federal Agencies, as appropriate, with a copy of the proposed Testing Plan and the accompanying environmental information within 20 days following the submission of the request. Agencies that wish to comment on a proposed Testing Plan shall do so within 60 days following receipt of the plan and the accompanying information.

(d)(1) For Mining Plans, the adjacent State Governor(s) shall be notified by the Director within 20 days following the submission of a request for approval of a proposed Mining Plan. Notification shall include a copy of the proposed Mining Plan and the accompanying environmental information. The adjacent State Governor(s) who wishes to comment on a proposed Mining Plan may do so within 60 days of the receipt of a plan and the accompanying information.

(2) In cases where an EIS is to be prepared, the Director's invitation to provide comments may allow the adjacent State Governor(s) more than 60 days following receipt of the proposed plan to provide comments.

(3) The Director shall notify Federal Agencies, as appropriate, with a copy of the proposed Mining Plan and the accompanying environmental information within 20 days following the submission of the request. Agencies that wish to comment on a proposed Mining Plan shall do so within 60 days following receipt of the plan and the accompanying information.

(e) When an adjacent State Governor(s) has provided comments pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Governor(s) shall be given, in writing, a list of recommendations which are adopted and the reasons for rejecting any of the recommendations of the Governor(s) or for implementing any alternative means identified during consultations with the Governor(s).
