
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 582 - OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR
##### Subpart C - Obligations and Responsibilities of Lessees
###### ยง 582.22 Delineation Plan.

All exploration activities shall be conducted in accordance with a Delineation Plan submitted by the lessee and approved by the Director. The Delineation Plan shall describe the proposed activities necessary to locate leased OCS minerals, characterize the quantity and quality of the minerals, and generate other information needed for the development of a comprehensive Testing or Mining Plan. A Delineation Plan at a minimum shall include the following:

(a) The OCS mineral(s) or primary interest.

(b) A brief narrative description of the activities to be conducted and how the activities will lead to the discovery and evaluation of a commercially minable deposit on the lease.

(c) The name, registration, and type of equipment to be used, including vessel types as well as their navigation and mobile communication systems, and transportation corridors to be used between the lease and shore.

(d) Information showing that the equipment to be used (including the vessel) is capable of performing the intended operation in the environment which will be encountered.

(e) Maps showing the proposed locations of test drill holes, the anticipated depth of penetration of test drill holes, the locations where surficial samples were taken, and the location of proposed geophysical survey lines for each surveying method being employed.

(f) A description of measures to be taken to avoid, minimize, or otherwise mitigate air, land, and water pollution and damage to aquatic and wildlife species and their habitats; any unique or special features in the lease area; aquifers; other natural resources of the OCS; and hazards to public health, safety, and navigation.

(g) A schedule indicating the starting and completion dates for each proposed exploration activity.

(h) A list of any known archaeological resources on the lease and measures to assure that the proposed exploration activities do not damage those resources.

(i) A description of any potential conflicts with other uses and users of the area.

(j) A description of measures to be taken to monitor the effects of the proposed exploration activities on the environment in accordance with ยง 582.28(c) of this part.

(k) A detailed description of practices and procedures to effect the abandonment of exploration activities, e.g., plugging of test drill holes. The proposed procedures shall indicate the steps to be taken to assure that test drill holes and other testing procedures which penetrate the seafloor to a significant depth are properly sealed and that the seafloor is left free of obstructions or structures that may present a hazard to other uses or users of the OCS such as navigation or commercial fishing.

(l) A detailed description of the cycle of all materials, the method for discharge and disposal of waste and refuse, and the chemical and physical characteristics of waste and refuse.

(m) A description of the potential environmental impacts of the proposed exploration activities including the following:

(1) The location of associated port, transport, processing, and waste disposal facilities and affected environment (e.g., maps, land use, and layout);

(2) A description of the nature and degree of environmental impacts and the domestic socioeconomic effects of construction and operation of the associated facilities, including waste characteristics and toxicity;

(3) Any proposed mitigation measures to avoid or minimize adverse impacts on the environment;

(4) A certificate of consistency with the federally approved State coastal zone management program, where applicable; and

(5) Alternative sites and technologies considered by the lessee and the reasons why they were not chosen.

(n) Any other information needed for technical evaluation of the planned activity, such as sample analyses to be conducted at sea, and the evaluation of potential environmental impacts.
