
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 582 - OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR
##### Subpart C - Obligations and Responsibilities of Lessees
###### § 582.28 Environmental protection measures.

(a) Exploration, testing, development, production, and processing activities proposed to be conducted under a lease will only be approved by the Director upon the determination that the adverse impacts of the proposed activities can be avoided, minimized, or otherwise mitigated. The Director shall take into account the information contained in the sale-specific environmental evaluation prepared in association with the lease offering as well as the site- and operational-specific environmental evaluations prepared in association with the review and evaluation of the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan. The Director's review of the air quality consequences of proposed OCS activities will follow the practices and procedures specified in 30 CFR 250.194, §§ 550.194, 550.218, 550.249, and 550.303.

(b) If the baseline data available are judged by the Director to be inadequate to support an environmental evaluation of a proposed Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan, the Director may require the lessee to collect additional environmental baseline data prior to the approval of the activities proposed.

(c)(1) [Reserved]

(2) Monitoring of environmental effects shall include determination of the spatial and temporal environmental changes induced by the exploration, testing, development, production, and processing activities on the flora and fauna of the sea surface, the water column, and/or the seafloor.

(3)-(4) [Reserved]

(5) When prototype test mining is proposed, the lessee shall include a monitoring strategy for assessing the impacts of the testing activities and for developing a strategy for monitoring commercial-scale recovery and mitigating the impacts of commercial-scale recovery more effectively. At a minimum, the proposed monitoring activities shall address specific concerns expressed in the lease-sale environmental analysis.

(6) When required, the monitoring plan shall specify:

(i) The sampling techniques and procedures to be used to acquire the needed data and information;

(ii) The format to be used in analysis and presentation of the data and information;

(iii) The equipment, techniques, and procedures to be used in carrying out the monitoring program; and

(iv) The name and qualifications of person(s) designated to be responsible for carrying out the environmental monitoring.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) In the event that equipment or procedural failure might result in significant additional damage to the environment, the lessee shall submit a Contingency Plan which specifies the procedures to be followed to institute corrective actions in response to such a failure and to minimize adverse impacts on the environment. Such procedures shall be designed for the site and mining activities described in the approved Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan.
