
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 582 - OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF FOR MINERALS OTHER THAN OIL, GAS, AND SULPHUR
##### Subpart D - Payments
###### ยง 582.40 Bonds.

(a) Pursuant to the requirements for a bond in ยง 581.33 of this title, prior to the commencement of any activity on a lease, the lessee shall submit a surety or personal bond to cover the lessee's royalty and other obligations under the lease as specified in this section.

(b) All bonds furnished by a lessee or operator must be in a form approved by the Deputy Director. A single copy of the required form is to be executed by the principal or, in the case of surety bonds, by both the principal and an acceptable surety.

(c) Only those surety bonds issued by qualified surety companies approved by the Department of the Treasury shall be accepted (see Department of Treasury Circular No. 570 and any supplemental or replacement circulars).

(d) Personal bonds shall be accompanied by a cashier's check, certified check, or negotiable U.S. Treasury bonds of an equal value to the amount specified in the bond. Negotiable Treasury bonds shall be accompanied by a proper conveyance of full authority to the Director to sell such securities in case of default in the performance of the terms and conditions of the lease.

(e) A bond in the minimum amount of $50,000 to cover the lessee's obligations under the lease shall be submitted prior to the commencement of any activity on a leasehold. A $50,000 bond shall not be required on a lease if the lessee already maintains or furnishes a $300,000 bond conditioned on compliance with the terms of leases for OCS minerals other than oil, gas, and sulphur held by the lessee on the OCS for the area in which the lease is located. A bond submitted pursuant to ยง 556.58(a) of this chapter may be amended to include the aforementioned condition for compliance. Prior to approval of a Delineation, Testing, or Mining Plan, the bond amount shall be adjusted, if appropriate, to cover the operations and activities described in the proposed plan.

(f) For the purposes of this section there are three areas:

(1) The Gulf of Mexico and the area offshore the Atlantic Ocean;

(2) The area offshore the Pacific Coast States of California, Oregon, Washington, and Hawaii; and

(3) The area offshore the coast of Alaska.

(g) A separate bond shall be required for each area. An operator's bond may be submitted for a specific lease(s) in the same amount as the lessee's bond(s) applicable to the lease(s) involved.

(h) Where, upon a default, the surety makes a payment to the United States of an obligation incurred under a lease, the face amount of the surety bond and the surety's liability thereunder shall be reduced by the amount of such payment.

(i) After default, the principal shall, within 6 months after notice or within such shorter period as may be fixed by the Director, either post a new bond or increase the existing bond to the amount previously held. In lieu thereof, the principal may, within that time, file separate or substitute bonds for each lease. Failure to meet these requirements may result in a suspension of operations including production on leases covered by such bonds.

(j) The Director shall not consent to termination of the period of liability of any bond unless an acceptable alternative bond has been filed or until all the terms and conditions of the lease covered by the bond have been met.
