
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 583 - NEGOTIATED NONCOMPETITIVE AGREEMENTS FOR THE USE OF OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF SAND, GRAVEL, AND/OR SHELL RESOURCES
##### Subpart C - Outer Continental Shelf Sand, Gravel, and/or Shell Resources Negotiated Agreements
###### § 583.315 What is the process for negotiating and executing an agreement?

(a) Upon completion of the technical, environmental and other evaluations established in §§ 583.305 and 583.310, BOEM will decide whether to enter into a negotiated noncompetitive agreement with the applicant for use of OCS sand, gravel, or shell resources for its proposed project.

(b) If BOEM decides not to enter into such an agreement, BOEM will inform the applicant of its reasons for not doing so. An applicant may ask the BOEM Director for reconsideration of this decision, in accordance with § 583.125(a).

(c) If BOEM has decided to enter into a negotiated noncompetitive agreement with the applicant, BOEM will negotiate the terms and conditions of the agreement with the applicant and prepare a draft agreement for the applicant's review.

(d) After considering comments and suggestions from the applicant, BOEM, at its discretion, may finalize the agreement and distribute it to the applicant for signature.

(e) Upon receipt of the agreement with the applicant's signature, BOEM will execute the agreement. A copy of the executed agreement will be mailed to the parties.
