
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 585.106 What happens if I fail to comply with this part?

(a) BOEM may take appropriate corrective action under this part if you fail to comply with applicable provisions of Federal law, the regulations in this part, other applicable regulations, any order of the Director, the provisions of a lease or grant issued under this part, or the requirements of an approved plan or other approval under this part.

(b) BOEM may issue to you a notice of noncompliance if we determine that there has been a violation of the regulations in this part, any order of the Director, or any provision of your lease, grant, or other approval issued under this part. When issuing a notice of noncompliance, BOEM will serve you at your last known address.

(c) A notice of noncompliance will tell you how you failed to comply with this part, any order of the Director and/or the provisions of your lease, grant or other approval, and will specify what you must do to correct the noncompliance and the time limits within which you must act.

(d) Failure of a lessee, operator, or grant holder to take the actions specified in a notice of noncompliance issued under this part within the time limit specified provides the basis for issuance of a cessation order by BSEE, as provided in 30 CFR 285.401 and/or cancellation of the lease or grant by the Secretary as provided in ยง 585.422.

(e) BOEM may assess civil penalties, as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act, if you fail to comply with any provision of this part or any term of a lease, grant, or order issued under the authority of this part, after notice of such failure and expiration of any reasonable period allowed for corrective action. Civil penalties will be determined and assessed in accordance with the procedures set forth in 30 CFR part 550, subpart N.

(f) You may be subject to criminal penalties as authorized by section 24 of the OCS Lands Act.
