
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 585.112 When and how does BOEM charge me processing fees on a case-by-case basis?

(a) BOEM will charge a processing fee on a case-by-case basis under the procedures in this section with regard to any application or request under this part if we decide at any time that the preparation of a particular document or study is necessary for the application or request and it will have a unique processing cost, such as the preparation of an environmental assessment (EA) or environmental impact statement (EIS).

(1) Processing costs will include contract oversight and efforts to review and approve documents prepared by contractors, whether the contractor is paid directly by the applicant or through BOEM.

(2) We may apply a standard overhead rate to direct processing costs.

(b) We will assess the ongoing processing fee for each individual application or request according to the following procedures:

(1) Before we process your application or request, we will give you a written estimate of the proposed fee based on reasonable processing costs.

(2) You may comment on the proposed fee.

(3) You may:

(i) Ask for our approval to perform, or to directly pay a contractor to perform, all or part of any document, study, or other activity according to standards we specify, thereby reducing our costs for processing your application or request; or

(ii) Ask to pay us to perform, or contract for, all or part of any document, study, or other activity.

(4) We will then give you the final estimate of the processing fee amount with payment terms and instructions after considering your comments and any BOEM-approved work you will do.

(i) If we encounter higher or lower processing costs than anticipated, we will re-estimate our reasonable processing costs following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, but we will not stop ongoing processing unless you do not pay in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(ii) Once processing is complete, we will refund to you the amount of money that we did not spend on processing costs.

(5)(i) Consistent with the payment and billing terms provided in the final estimate, we will periodically estimate what our reasonable processing costs will be for a specific period and will bill you for that period. Payment is due to us 30 days after you receive your bill. We will stop processing your document if you do not pay the bill by the date payment is due.

(ii) If a periodic payment turns out to be more or less than our reasonable processing costs for the period, we will adjust the next billing accordingly or make a refund. Do not deduct any amount from a payment without our prior written approval.

(6) You must pay the entire fee before we will issue the final document or take final action on your application or request.

(7) You may appeal our estimated processing costs in accordance with the regulations in 43 CFR part 4. We will not process the document further until the appeal is resolved, unless you pay the fee under protest while the appeal is pending. If the appeal results in a decision changing the proposed fee, we will adjust the fee in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section. If we adjust the fee downward, we will not pay interest.
