
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 7 - TESTING BY APPLICANT OR THIRD PARTY
##### Subpart B - Brattice Cloth and Ventilation Tubing
###### ยง 7.27 Test for flame resistance of brattice cloth.
####### Test procedures.

(a)(1) Prepare 6 samples of brattice cloth 40 inches wide by 48 inches long.

(2) Prior to testing, condition each sample for a minimum of 24 hours at a temperature of 70 +/-10 &#xB0;F (21 +/-5.5 &#xB0;C) and a relative humidity of 55 +/-10%.

(3) For each test, suspend the sample in the gallery by wrapping the brattice cloth around the rod and clamping each end and the center. The brattice cloth must hang 4 inches from the gallery floor.

(4) Use a front exhaust system to remove smoke escaping from the gallery. The exhaust system must remain on during all testing, but not affect the air flow in the gallery.

(5) Set the methane-fueled impinged jet burner to yield a flame height of 12 inches as measured at the outermost tip of the flame.

(6) Apply the burner to the front lower edge of the brattice cloth and keep it in contact with the material for 25 seconds or until 1 foot of material, measured horizontally, is consumed, whichever occurs first. If the material shrinks during application of the burner flame, move the burner flame to maintain contact with 1 foot of the material. If melting material might clog the burner orifices, rotate the burner slightly during application of the flame.

(7) Test 3 samples in still air and 3 samples with an average of 125 ft./min. of air flowing past the sample.

(8) Record the propagation length and duration of burning for each of the 6 samples. The duration of burning is the total burning time of the specimen during the flame test. This includes the burn time of any material that falls on the floor of the test gallery during the igniting period. However, the suspended specimen is considered burning only after the burner is removed. Should the burning time of a suspended specimen and a specimen on the floor coincide, count the coinciding burning time only once.

(9) Calculate the average duration of burning for the first 3 samples (still air) and the second 3 samples (125 ft./min. air flow).
