
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 27 - METHANE-MONITORING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 27.4 Application procedures and requirements.

(a)(1) No investigation or testing for certification will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application, accompanied by all drawings, specifications, descriptions, and related materials. The application and all related matters and correspondence shall be addressed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059. Fees calculated in accordance with part 5 of this title shall be submitted in accordance with ยง 5.40.

(2) Where the applicant for approval has used an independent laboratory under part 6 of this chapter to perform, in whole or in part, the necessary testing and evaluation for approval under this part, the applicant must provide to MSHA as part of the approval application:

(i) Written evidence of the laboratory's independence and current recognition by a laboratory accrediting organization;

(ii) Complete technical explanation of how the product complies with each requirement in the applicable MSHA product approval requirements;

(iii) Identification of components or features of the product that are critical to the safety of the product; and

(iv) All documentation, including drawings and specifications, as submitted to the independent laboratory by the applicant and as required by this part.

(3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to non-MSHA product safety standards which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent, under ยง 6.20 of this chapter, to the product approval requirements under this part.

(b) Drawings, specifications, and descriptions shall be adequate in detail to identify fully all components and subassemblies that are submitted for investigation, and shall include wiring and block diagrams. All drawings shall include title, number, and date; any revision dates and the purpose of each revision shall also be shown on the drawing.

(c) For a complete investigation leading to certification, the applicant shall furnish all necessary components and material to MSHA. MSHA reserves the right to require more than one of each component, subassembly, or assembly for the investigation. Spare parts and expendable components, subject to wear in normal operation, shall be supplied by the applicant to permit continuous operation during test periods. The applicant shall furnish special tools necessary to assemble or disassemble any component or subassembly for inspection or test.

(d) The applicant shall submit a plan of inspection of components at the place of manufacture or assembly. The applicant shall furnish to MSHA a copy of any factory-inspection form or equivalent with the application. The form shall direct attention to the points that must be checked to make certain that all components or subassemblies of the complete assembly are in proper condition, complete in all respects, and in agreement with the drawings, specifications, and descriptions filed with MSHA.

(e) The applicant shall furnish to MSHA complete instructions for operating the assembly and servicing components. After completion of MSHA's investigation, and before certification, if any revision of the instructions is required, a revised copy thereof shall be submitted to MSHA for inclusion with the drawings and specifications.
