
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Issuance of OCS Renewable Energy Leases
###### Competitive Lease Process
####### ยง 585.216 What information will BOEM publish in the Proposed Sale Notice and Final Sale Notice?

For each competitive lease sale, BOEM will publish a Proposed Sale Notice and a Final Sale Notice in theIn the Proposed Sale Notice, we will request public comment on the items listed in this section. We will consider all public comments received in developing the final lease sale terms and conditions. We will publish the final terms and conditions in the Final Sale Notice. The Proposed Sale Notice and Final Sale Notice will include, or describe the availability of, information pertaining to:

(a) The area available for leasing.

(b) Proposed and final lease provisions and conditions, including, but not limited to:

(1) Lease size;

(2) Lease term;

(3) Payment requirements;

(4) Performance requirements; and

(5) Site-specific lease stipulations.

(c) Auction details, including:

(1) Bidding procedures and systems;

(2) Minimum bid;

(3) Deposit amount;

(4) The place and time for filing bids and the place, date, and hour for opening bids;

(5) Lease award method; and

(6) Bidding or application instructions.

(d) The official BOEM lease form to be used or a reference to that form.

(e) Criteria BOEM will use to evaluate competing bids or applications and how the criteria will be used in decision-making for awarding a lease.

(f) Award procedures, including how and when BOEM will award leases and how BOEM will handle unsuccessful bids or applications.

(g) Procedures for appealing the lease issuance decision.

(h) Execution of the lease instrument.
