
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Issuance of OCS Renewable Energy Leases
###### Noncompetitive Lease Award Process
####### ยง 585.230 May I request a lease if there is no Call?

You may submit an unsolicited request for a commercial lease or a limited lease under this part. Your unsolicited request must contain the following information:

(a) The area you are requesting for lease.

(b) A general description of your objectives and the facilities that you would use to achieve those objectives.

(c) A general schedule of proposed activities including those leading to commercial operations.

(d) Available and pertinent data and information concerning renewable energy and environmental conditions in the area of interest, including energy and resource data and information used to evaluate the area of interest. BOEM will withhold trade secrets and commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential from public disclosure under exemption 4 of the FOIA and as provided in ยง 585.114.

(e) If available from the appropriate State or local government authority, a statement that the proposed activity conforms with State and local energy planning requirements, initiatives, or guidance.

(f) Documentation showing that you meet the qualifications to become a lessee, as specified in ยง 585.107.

(g) An acquisition fee, as specified in ยง 585.502(a).
