
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Issuance of OCS Renewable Energy Leases
###### Noncompetitive Lease Award Process
####### § 585.231 How will BOEM process my unsolicited request for a noncompetitive lease?

(a) BOEM will consider unsolicited requests for a lease on a case-by-case basis and may issue a lease noncompetitively in accordance with this part. We will not consider an unsolicited request for a lease under this part that is proposed in an area of the OCS that is scheduled for a lease sale under this part.

(b) BOEM will issue a public notice of a request for interest relating to your proposal and consider comments received to determine if competitive interest exists.

(c) If BOEM determines that competitive interest exists in the lease area:

(1) BOEM will proceed with the competitive process set forth in §§ 585.210 through 585.225;

(2) If you submit a bid for the lease area in a competitive lease sale, your acquisition fee will be applied to the deposit for your bonus bid; and

(3) If you do not submit a bid for the lease area in a competitive lease sale, BOEM will not refund your acquisition fee.

(d) If BOEM determines that there is no competitive interest in a lease, we will publish in thea notice of Determination of No Competitive Interest. After BOEM publishes this notice, you will be responsible for submitting any required consistency certification and necessary data and information pursuant to 15 CFR part 930, subpart D, to the applicable State CZMA agency or agencies and BOEM.

(e) BOEM will coordinate and consult with affected Federal agencies, State, and local governments, and affected Indian Tribes in the review of noncompetitive lease requests.

(f) After completing the review of your lease request, BOEM may offer you a noncompetitive lease.

(g) If you accept the terms and conditions of the lease, then we will issue the lease, and you must comply with all terms and conditions of your lease and all applicable provisions of this part and 30 CFR part 285. If we issue you a lease, we will send you a notice with 3 copies of the lease form.

(1) Within 10 business days after you receive the lease copies you must:

(i) Execute the lease;

(ii) File financial assurance as required under §§ 585.515 through 585.537; and

(2) Within 45 days after you receive the lease copies, you must pay the first 12 months' rent, as required in § 585.503.

(h) BOEM will publish in thea notice announcing the issuance of your lease.

(i) If you do not accept the terms and conditions, BOEM will not issue a lease and will not refund your acquisition fee.
