
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart B - Issuance of OCS Renewable Energy Leases
###### Commercial and Limited Lease Terms
####### ยง 585.239 Are there any other renewable energy research activities that will be allowed on the OCS?

(a) The Director may issue OCS leases, ROW grants, and RUE grants to a Federal agency or a State for renewable energy research activities that support the future production, transportation, or transmission of renewable energy.

(b) In issuing leases, ROW grants, and RUE grants to a Federal agency or a State on the OCS for renewable energy research activities under this provision, BOEM will coordinate and consult with other relevant Federal agencies, any other affected State(s), affected local government executives, and affected Indian Tribes.

(c) BOEM may issue leases, RUEs, and ROWs for research activities managed by a Federal agency or a State only in areas for which the Director has determined, after public notice and opportunity to comment, that no competitive interest exists.

(d) The Director and the head of the Federal agency or the Governor of a requesting State, or their authorized representatives, will negotiate the terms and conditions of such renewable energy leases, RUEs, or ROWs under this provision on a case-by-case basis. The framework for such negotiations, and standard terms and conditions of such leases, RUEs, or ROWs may be set forth in a memorandum of agreement (MOA) or other agreement between BOEM and a Federal agency or a State. The MOA must include the agreement of the head of the Federal agency or the Governor to assure that all subcontractors comply with this part and 30 CFR part 285, other applicable laws, and terms and conditions of such leases or grants.

(e) Any lease, RUE, or ROW that BOEM issues to a Federal agency or to a State that authorizes access to an area of the OCS for research activities managed by a Federal agency or a State must include:

(1) Requirements to comply with all applicable Federal laws; and

(2) Requirements to comply with these regulations and 30 CFR part 285, except as otherwise provided in the lease or grant.

(f) BOEM will issue a public notice of any lease, RUE, ROW issued to a Federal agency or to a State, or an approved MOA for such research activities.

(g) BOEM will not charge any fees for the purpose of ensuring a fair return for the use of such research areas on the OCS.
