
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart D - Lease and Grant Administration
###### Designation of Operator
####### ยง 585.405 How do I designate an operator?

(a) If you intend to designate an operator who is not the lessee or grant holder, you must identify the proposed operator in your SAP (under ยง 585.610(a)(3)), COP (under ยง 585.626(b)(2)), or GAP (under ยง 585.645(b)(3)), as applicable. If no operator is designated in a SAP, COP, or GAP, BOEM will deem the lessee or grant holder to be the operator.

(b) An operator must be designated in any SAP, COP, or GAP if there is more than one lessee or grant holder for any individual lease or grant.

(c) Once approved in your plan, the designated operator is authorized to act on your behalf and required to perform activities necessary to comply with the OCS Lands Act, the lease or grant, and the regulations in this part.

(d) You, or your designated operator, must immediately provide BOEM with a written notification of change of address of the lessee or operator.

(e) If there is a change in the designated operator, you must provide written notice to BOEM and identify the new designated operator within 72 hours on a form approved by BOEM. The lessee(s) or grantee(s) is the operator and responsible for compliance until BOEM approves designation of the new operator.

(f) Designation of an operator under any lease or grant issued under this part does not relieve the lessee or grant holder of its obligations under this part or its lease or grant.

(g) A designated operator performing activities on the lease must comply with all regulations governing those activities and may be held liable or penalized for any noncompliance during the time it was the operator, notwithstanding its subsequent resignation.
