
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Payments and Financial Assurance Requirements
###### Payments
####### § 585.503 What are the rent and operating fee requirements for a commercial lease?

(a) The rent for a commercial lease is $3 per acre per year, unless otherwise established in the Final Sale Notice or lease.

(1) You must pay ONRR the initial 12 months' rent 45 days after you receive the lease copies from BOEM in accordance with the requirements provided in § 585.500(a).

(2) You must pay ONRR, under the regulations at 30 CFR part 1218, rent at the beginning of each subsequent 1-year period in accordance with the regulations at 30 CFR 1218.51 for the entire lease area until the facility begins to generate commercially, as specified in § 585.506 or as otherwise specified in the Final Sale Notice or lease instrument:

(i) For leases issued competitively, BOEM will specify in the Final Sale Notice and lease any adjustment to the rent fee to take effect during the operations term and prior to the commercial generation.

(ii) For leases issued noncompetitively, BOEM will specify in the lease any adjustment to the rent fee to take effect during the operations term and prior to the commercial generation.

(3) You must pay ONRR, under the regulations at 30 CFR part 1218, the rent for a project easement in addition to the lease rent, as provided in § 585.507. You must commence rent payments for your project easement upon our approval of your COP or GAP.

(b) After your lease begins commercial generation of electricity or on the date specified by BOEM, you must pay operating fees in the amount specified in § 585.506:

(1) For leases issued competitively, BOEM will specify in the Final Sale Notice and lease the date when operating fees commence; and

(2) For leases issued noncompetitively, BOEM will specify in the lease the date when operating fee commences.
