
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Payments and Financial Assurance Requirements
###### Financial Assurance for Limited Leases, ROW Grants, and RUE Grants
####### § 585.521 Do my financial assurance requirements change as activities progress on my limited lease or grant?

(a) BOEM may require you to increase the level of your financial assurance as activities progress on your limited lease or grant. We will base the determination for the amount of financial assurance requirements on our estimate of the cost to meet all accrued lease or grant obligations, including:

(1) The projected amount of rent and other payments due the Government over the next 12 months;

(2) Any past due rent and other payments;

(3) Other monetary obligations; and

(4) The estimated cost of facility decommissioning.

(b) You may satisfy the requirement for increased financial assurance levels for the limited lease or grant by increasing the amount of your existing bond or replacing your existing bond.

(c) BOEM will authorize you to establish a separate decommissioning bond or other financial assurance for your limited lease or grant.

(1) The separate decommissioning bond or other financial assurance instrument must meet the requirements specified in §§ 585.525 through 585.529.

(2) BOEM will allow you to provide your financial assurance for decommissioning in accordance with the number of facilities installed or being installed. BOEM must approve the schedule for providing the appropriate financial assurance coverage.
