
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Payments and Financial Assurance Requirements
###### Requirements for Financial Assurance Instruments
####### ยง 585.527 May I demonstrate financial strength and reliability to meet the financial assurance requirement for lease or grant activities?

BOEM may allow you to use your financial strength and reliability to meet financial assurance requirements. We will make this determination based on audited financial statements, business stability, reliability, and compliance with regulations.

(a) You must provide the following information if you want to demonstrate financial strength and reliability to meet your financial assurance requirements:

(1) Audited financial statements (including auditor's certificate, balance sheet, and profit and loss sheet) that show you have financial capacity substantially in excess of existing and anticipated lease and other obligations;

(2) Evidence that shows business stability based on 5 years of continuous operation and generation of renewable energy on the OCS or onshore;

(3) Evidence that shows reliability in meeting obligations based on credit ratings or trade references, including names and addresses of other lessees, contractors, and suppliers with whom you have dealt; and

(4) Evidence that shows a record of compliance with laws, regulations, and lease, ROW, or RUE terms.

(b) If we approve your request to use your financial strength and reliability to meet your financial assurance requirements, you must submit annual updates to the information required by paragraph (a) of this section. You must submit this information no later than March 31 of each year.

(c) If the annual updates to the information required by paragraph (a) of this section do not continue to demonstrate financial strength and reliability or BOEM has reason to believe that you are unable to meet the financial assurance requirements of this section, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, BOEM will terminate your ability to use financial strength and reliability for financial assurance and require you to provide another type of financial assurance. You must provide this new financial assurance instrument within 90 days after we terminate your use of financial strength and reliability.
