
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 585 - RENEWABLE ENERGY ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart E - Payments and Financial Assurance Requirements
###### Requirements for Financial Assurance Instruments
####### ยง 585.528 May I use a third-party guaranty to meet the financial assurance requirement for lease or grant activities?

(a) You may use a third-party guaranty if the guarantor meets the criteria prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section and submits an agreement meeting the criteria prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. The agreement must guarantee compliance with the obligations of all lessees and operators and grant holders.

(b) BOEM will consider the following factors in deciding whether to accept an agreement:

(1) The length of time that your guarantor has been in continuous operation as a business entity. You may exclude periods of interruption that are beyond the guarantor's control by demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the Director, that the interruptions do not affect the likelihood of your guarantor remaining in business during the SAP, COP, and decommissioning stages of activities covered by the indemnity agreement.

(2) Financial information available in the public record or submitted by your guarantor in sufficient detail to show us that your guarantor meets the criterion stated in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Such detail includes:

(i) The current rating for your guarantor's most recent bond issuance by a generally recognized bond rating service such as Moody's Investor Service or Standard and Poor's Corporation;

(ii) Your guarantor's net worth, taking into account liabilities for compliance with all terms and conditions of your lease, regulations, and other guarantees;

(iii) Your guarantor's ratio of current assets to current liabilities, taking into account liabilities for compliance with all terms and conditions of your lease, regulations, and other guarantees; and

(iv) Your guarantor's unencumbered domestic fixed assets.

(3) If the information in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is not publicly available, your guarantor must submit the information in the following table, to be updated annually within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year (FY) or as otherwise prescribed.

(4) Your guarantor's total outstanding and proposed guarantees must not exceed 25 percent of its unencumbered domestic net worth.

(c) Your guarantor must submit an agreement executed by the guarantor and all parties bound by the agreement. All parties are bound jointly and severally and must meet the qualifications set forth in ยง 585.107.

(1) When any party is a corporation, two corporate officers authorized to execute the guaranty agreement on behalf of the corporation must sign the agreement.

(2) When any party is a partnership, joint venture, or syndicate, the guaranty agreement must bind each party who has a beneficial interest in your guarantor and provide that, upon BOEM demand under your guaranty, each party is jointly and severally liable for compliance with all terms and conditions of your lease(s) or grant(s) covered by the agreement.

(3) When forfeiture of the guaranty is called for, the agreement must provide that your guarantor will either bring your lease(s) or grant(s) into compliance or provide, within 7 days, sufficient funds to permit BOEM to complete corrective action.

(4) The guaranty agreement must contain a confession of judgment, providing that, if we determine that you are, or your operator or operating rights owner is, in default, the guarantor must not challenge the determination and must remedy the default.

(5) If you fail, or your operator or operating rights owner fails, to comply with any law, term, or regulation, your guarantor must either take corrective action or provide, within 7 days or other agreed upon time period, sufficient funds for BOEM to complete corrective action. Such compliance must not reduce your guarantor's liability.

(6) If your guarantor wants to terminate the period of liability, your guarantor must notify you and us at least 90 days before the proposed termination date, obtain our approval for termination of all or a specified portion of the guarantee for liabilities arising after that date, and remain liable for all your work performed during the period the agreement is in effect.

(7) Each guaranty submitted pursuant to this section is deemed to contain all the above terms, even if they are not actually in the agreement.

(d) Before the termination of your guaranty, you must provide an acceptable replacement in the form of a bond or other security.
