
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter V - Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Offshore
#### PART 586 - ALTERNATE USES OF EXISTING FACILITIES ON THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 586.108 How do I show that I am qualified to be a grant holder?

(a) You must demonstrate your technical and financial capability to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate/decommission projects for which you are requesting authorization. Documentation can include:

(1) Descriptions of international or domestic experience with renewable energy projects or other types of electric-energy-related projects; and

(2) information establishing access to sufficient capital to carry out development.

(b) An individual must submit a written statement of citizenship status attesting to U.S. citizenship. It does not need to be notarized nor give the age of individual. A resident alien may submit a photocopy of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services form evidencing legal status of the resident alien.

(c) A corporation or association must submit evidence, as specified in the table in paragraph (d) of this section, acceptable to BOEM that:

(1) It is qualified to hold grants under this part;

(2) It is authorized to conduct business under the laws of its State;

(3) It is authorized to hold grants on the OCS under the operating rules of its business; and

(4) The persons holding the titles listed are authorized to bind the corporation or association when conducting business with BOEM.

(d) Acceptable evidence under paragraph (c) of this section includes, but is not limited to the following:

(e) A local, State, or Federal executive entity must submit a written statement that:

(1) It is qualified to hold grants under this part; and

(2) The person(s) acting on behalf of the entity is authorized to bind the entity when conducting business with us.

(f) BOEM may require you to submit additional information at any time considering your bid or request for a noncompetitive grant.
