
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 700 - GENERAL
##### ยง 700.5 Definitions.
###### Anthracite,Standard Specification for Classification of Coals by Rank,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

means coal classified as anthracite in ASTM Standard D 388-77. Coal classifications are published by the American Society of Testing and Materials under the title,ASTM D 388-77, on pages 220 through 224. Table 1 which classifies the coals by rank is presented on page 223. This publication is hereby incorporated by reference as it exists on the date of adoption of these regulations. Notices of changes made to this publication will be periodically published by the Office of Surface Mining in theThis ASTM Standard is on file and available for inspection at the OSM Office, U.S. Department of the Interior, South Interior Building, Washington, DC 20240, at each OSM Regional Office, District Office and Field Office, and at the central office of the applicable State Regulatory Authority, if any. Copies of this publication may also be obtained by writing to the above locations. A copy of this publication will also be on file for public inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Incorporation by reference provisions approved by the Director of the Federal Register February 7, 1979. The Director's approval of this incorporation by reference expires on July 1, 1981.
