
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 700 - GENERAL
##### ยง 700.11 Applicability.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this chapter applies to all coal exploration and surface coal mining and reclamation operations, except:

(1) The extraction of coal by a landowner for his or her own noncommercial use from land owned or leased by him or her. Noncommercial use does not include the extraction of coal by one unit of an integrated company or other business or nonprofit entity which uses the coal in its own manufacturing or power plants;

(2) The extraction of 250 tons of coal or less by a person conducting a surface coal mining and reclamation operation. A person who intends to remove more than 250 tons is not exempted;

(3) The extraction of coal as an incidental part of Federal, State or local government-financed highway or other construction in accordance with part 707 of this chapter;

(4) The extraction of coal incidental to the extraction of other minerals where coal does not exceed 16percent of the total tonnage of coal and other minerals removed for purposes of commercial use or sale in accordance with part 702 of this chapter.

(5) Coal exploration on lands subject to the requirement of 43 CFR parts 3480-3487.

(b) This chapter does not apply to the extraction of coal for commercial purposes where the surface coal mining and reclamation operation, together with any related operations, has or will have an affected area of two acres or less. For purposes of this paragraph:

(1) Where a segment of a road is used for access or coal haulage by more than one surface coal mining operation, the entire segment shall be included in the affected area of each of those operations; provided, that two or more operations which are deemed related pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be considered as one operation for purposes of this paragraph.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, surface coal mining operations shall be deemed related if they occur within twelve months of each other, are physically related, and are under common ownership or control.

(i) Operations shall be deemed physically related if drainage from both operations flows into the same watershed at or before a point within five aerial miles of either operation.

(ii) Operations shall be deemed under common ownership or control if they are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of:

(A) The same person;

(B) Two or more persons, one of whom controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by the other; or

(C) Members of the same family and their relatives, unless it is established that there is no direct or indirect business relationship between or among them;
