
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 700 - GENERAL
##### ยง 700.13 Notice of citizen suits.

(a) A person who intends to initiate a civil action on his or her own behalf under section 520 of the Act shall give notice of intent to do so, in accordance with this section.

(b) Notice shall be given by certified mail to the Secretary and the Director in all cases and to the head of the State regulatory authority, if a complaint involves or relates to a specific State. A copy of the notice shall be sent by first class mail to the Regional Director, if the complaint involves or relates to surface coal mining and reclamation operations in a specific region of the Office.

(c) Notice shall be given by certified mail to the alleged violator, if the complaint alleges a violation of the Act or any regulation, order, or permit issued under the Act.

(d) Service of notice under this section is complete upon mailing to the last known address of the person being notified.

(e) A person giving notice regarding an alleged violation shall state, to the extent known-

(1) Sufficient information to identify the provision of the Act, regulation, order, or permit allegedly violated;

(2) The act or omission alleged to constitute a violation;

(3) The name, address, and telephone numbers of the person or persons responsible for the alleged violation;

(4) The date, time, and location of the alleged violation;

(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the person giving notice; and

(6) The name, address, and telephone number of legal counsel, if any, of the person giving notice.

(f) A person giving notice of an alleged failure by the Secretary or a State regulatory authority to perform a mandatory act or duty under the Act shall state, to the extent known:

(1) The provision of the Act containing the mandatory act or duty allegedly not performed;

(2) Sufficient information to identify the omission alleged to constitute the failure to perform a mandatory act or duty under the Act;

(3) The name, address, and telephone number of the person giving notice; and

(4) The name, address, and telephone number of legal counsel, if any, of the person giving notice.
