
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 28 - FUSES FOR USE WITH DIRECT CURRENT IN PROVIDING SHORT-CIRCUIT PROTECTION FOR TRAILING CABLES IN COAL MINES
##### Subpart B - Application for Approval
###### ยง 28.10 Application procedures.

(a) Each applicant seeking approval of a fuse for use with direct current in providing short-circuit protection for trailing cables shall arrange for submission, at applicant's own expense, of the number of fuses necessary for testing to a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory capable of performing the examination, inspection, and testing requirements of this part.

(b) The applicant shall insure, at his own expense, that the examination, inspection, and testing requirements of this part are properly and thoroughly performed by the independent testing laboratory of his choice.

(c) Upon satisfactory completion by the independent testing laboratory of the examination, inspection, and testing requirements of this part, the data and results of such examination, inspection, and tests shall be certified by both the applicant and the laboratory and shall be sent for evaluation of such data and results to the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059. Fees calculated in accordance with part 5 of this title shall be submitted in accordance with ยง 5.40.

(d) The certified data and results of the examinations, inspections, and tests required by this part and submitted to MSHA for evaluation shall be accompanied by a proposed plan for quality control which meets the minimum requirements set forth in Subpart D of this part.

(e) Each applicant shall deliver to MSHA at his own expense, three fuses of each size and type which may be necessary for evaluation of the examination, inspection, and test results by the Bureau.

(f) Applicants or their representatives may visit or communicate with Approval and Certification Center in order to discuss the requirements for approval of any fuse, or to obtain criticism of proposed designs; no charge shall be made for such consultation and no written report shall be issued by MSHA as a result of such consultation.
