
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 28 - FUSES FOR USE WITH DIRECT CURRENT IN PROVIDING SHORT-CIRCUIT PROTECTION FOR TRAILING CABLES IN COAL MINES
##### Subpart C - Approval and Disapproval
###### ยง 28.23 Approval labels or markings; approval of contents; use.

(a) Approval labels shall bear the emblem of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, an approval number, the restrictions, if any, placed upon the use of the fuse by MSHA, and where appropriate, the applicant's name and address.

(b) Upon receipt of a certificate of approval, the applicant shall submit to MSHA, for approval of contents, full-scale reproductions of approval labels or markings, as appropriate, and a sketch or description of the method of application and position on the fuse, together with instructions for the installation, use, and maintenance of the fuse.

(c) Legible reproductions or abbreviated forms of the label or markings approved by MSHA shall be attached to or printed on each fuse.

(d) Each fuse shall be marked with the rating of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.

(e) MSHA shall, where necessary, notify the applicant when additional labels, markings, or instructions will be required.

(f) Approval labels or markings shall only be used by the applicant to whom they were issued.

(g) The use of any MSHA approval label or marking obligates the applicant to whom it is issued to maintain or cause to be maintained the approved quality control sampling procedure and the acceptable quality level for each characteristic tested, and to guarantee that the approved fuse is manufactured according to the specifications upon which the certificate of approval is based.

(h) The use of any MSHA approval label or marking obligates the applicant to whom it is issued to retest the approved fuse within a 2-year period from the date of the certificate of approval, and every 2 years thereafter, in accordance with the provisions of ยง 28.10.
