
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 702 - EXEMPTION FOR COAL EXTRACTION INCIDENTAL TO THE EXTRACTION OF OTHER MINERALS
##### ยง 702.11 Application requirements and procedures.

(a)(1) Any person who plans to commence or continue coal extraction after April 1, 1990, under a Federal program or on Indian lands, or after the effective date of counterpart provisions in a State program, in reliance on the incidental mining exemption shall file a complete application for exemption with the regulatory authority for each mining area.

(2) Following incorporation of an exemption application approval process into a regulatory program, a person may not commence coal extraction based upon the exemption until the regulatory authority approves such application, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(b) Existing operations. Any person who has commenced coal extraction at a mining area in reliance upon the incidental mining exemption prior to April 1, 1990, in a State with a Federal program or on Indian lands, or prior to the effective date of counterpart provisions in a State program, may continue mining operations for 60 days after such effective date. Coal extraction may not continue after such 60-day period unless that person files an administratively complete application for exemption with the regulatory authority. If an administratively complete application is filed within 60 days, the person may continue extracting coal in reliance on the exemption beyond the 60-day period until the regulatory authority makes an administrative decision on such application.

(c) Additional information. The regulatory authority shall notify the applicant if the application for exemption is incomplete and may at any time require submittal of additional information.

(d) Public comment period. Following publication of the newspaper notice required by ยง 702.12(g), the regulatory authority shall provide a period of no less than 30 days during which time any person having an interest which is or may be adversely affected by a decision on the application may submit written comments or objections.

(e) Exemption determination. (1) No later than 90 days after filing of an administratively complete application, the regulatory authority shall make a written determination whether, and under what conditions, the persons claiming the exemption are exempt under this part, and shall notify the applicant and persons submitting comments on the application of the determination and the basis for the determination.

(2) The determination of exemption shall be based upon information contained in the application and any other information available to the regulatory authority at that time.

(3) If the regulatory authority fails to provide an applicant with the determination as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, an applicant who has not begun may commence coal extraction pending a determination on the application unless the regulatory authority issues an interim finding, together with reasons therefor, that the applicant may not begin coal extraction.

(f) Administrative review. (1) Any adversely affected person may request administrative review of a determination under paragraph (e) of this section within 30 days of the notification of such determination in accordance with procedures established under 43 CFR 4.1280 when OSM is the regulatory authority or under corresponding State procedures when a State is the regulatory authority.

(2) A petition for administrative review filed under 43 CFR 4.1280 or under corresponding State procedures shall not suspend the effect of a determination under paragraph (e) of this section.
