
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 702 - EXEMPTION FOR COAL EXTRACTION INCIDENTAL TO THE EXTRACTION OF OTHER MINERALS
##### ยง 702.17 Revocation and enforcement.

(a) Regulatory authority responsibility. The regulatory authority shall conduct an annual compliance review of the mining area, utilizing the annual report submitted pursuant to ยง 702.18, an on-site inspection and any other information available to the regulatory authority.

(b) If the regulatory authority has reason to believe that a specific mining area was not exempt under the provisions of this part or counterpart provisions of the State regulatory program at the end of the previous reporting period, is not exempt, or will be unable to satisfy the exemption criteria at the end of the current reporting period, the regulatory authority shall notify the operator that the exemption may be revoked and the reason(s) therefor. The exemption will be revoked unless the operator demonstrates to the regulatory authority within 30 days that the mining area in question should continue to be exempt.

(c)(1) If the regulatory authority finds that an operator has not demonstrated that activities conducted in the mining area qualify for the exemption, the regulatory authority shall revoke the exemption and immediately notify the operator and intervenors. If a decision is made not to revoke an exemption, the regulatory authority shall immediately notify the operator and intervenors.

(2) Any adversely affected person may request administrative review of a decision whether to revoke an exemption within 30 days of the notification of such decision in accordance with procedures established under 43 CFR 4.1280 when OSM is the regulatory authority or under corresponding State procedures when a State is the regulatory authority.

(3) A petition for administrative review filed under 43 CFR 4.1280 or under corresponding State procedures shall not suspend the effect of a decision whether to revoke an exemption.
