
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 705 - RESTRICTION ON FINANCIAL INTERESTS OF STATE EMPLOYEES
##### § 705.10 Information collection.
###### et seq.

The collections of information contained in §§ 705.11 and 705.17 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501and assigned clearance number 1029-0067. The information is being collected on OSM Form 23 and will be used to meet the requirements of section 517(g) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, which provides that no employee of the State regulatory authority shall have direct or indirect financial interests in any underground or surface coal mining operation. This information will be used by officials of the state regulatory authority to determine whether each State employee complies with the financial interest provisions of section 517(g). The obligation to respond is mandatory in accordance with section 517(g). Public reporting burden for this information is estimated to average 20 minutes per response per state employee and 30 minutes per response per State regulatory authority, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Office of Surface Mining, 1951 Constitution Avenue NW., room 5415-L, Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project 1029-0067, Washington, DC 20503.
