
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 705 - RESTRICTION ON FINANCIAL INTERESTS OF STATE EMPLOYEES
##### ยง 705.11 Who shall file.

(a) Any employee who performs any function or duty under the Act is required to file a statement of employment and financial interests. Members of advisory boards and commissions established in accordance with State laws or regulations to represent multiple interests, who perform a function or duty under the Act, must file a statement of employment and financial interests. An employee who occupies a position which has been determined by the Head of the State Regulatory Authority not to involve performance of any function or duty under the Act or who is no longer employed by the State Regulatory Authority at the time a filing is due, is not required to file a statement.

(b) The Head of each State Regulatory Authority shall prepare a list of those positions within the State Regulatory Authority that do not involve performance of any functions or duties under the Act. State Regulatory Authorities may be organized to include more activities than are covered by the Act. For example, if a State has identified its Department of Natural Resources as the State Regulatory Authority there may be only one or two offices within that Department which have employees who perform any functions, or duties under the Act. In those cases, the Head of the State Regulatory Authority shall list the title of boards, offices, bureaus or divisions within the State Regulatory Authority which do not perform any functions or duties under the Act and list the positions not performing functions or duties under the Act for only those boards, offices, bureaus or divisions that do have some employees performing functions or duties under the Act. Only those employees who are employed in a listed organizational unit or who occupy a listed position will be exempted from the filing requirements of section 517(g) of the Act.

(c) The Head of each State Regulatory Authority shall prepare and submit to the director, an initial listing of positions that do not involve performance of any functions or duties under the Act within 60 days of the effective date of these regulations.

(d) The Head of each State Regulatory Authority shall annually review and update this listing. For monitoring and reporting reasons, the listing must be submitted to the Director and must contain a written justification for inclusion of the positions listed. Proposed revisions or a certification that revision is not required shall be submitted to the Director by no later than September 30 of each year. The Head of each State Regulatory Authority may revise the listing by the addition or deletion of positions at any time he or she determines such revisions are required to carry out the purpose of the law or the regulations of this part. Additions to and deletions from the listing of positions are effective upon notification to the incumbents of the positions added or deleted.

(e) The Secretary or the Director may modify the listing at any time one or both of them determines that the listing submitted by the Head of a State Regulatory Authority indicates that coverage is not sufficient to carry out the purpose of the law or the regulations of this part.
