
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 705 - RESTRICTION ON FINANCIAL INTERESTS OF STATE EMPLOYEES
##### ยง 705.19 Resolving prohibited interests.

(a) Actions to be taken by the Head of the State Regulatory Authority:

(1) Remedial action to effect resolution. If an employee has a prohibited financial interest, the Head of the State Regulatory Authority shall promptly advise the employee that remedial action which will resolve the prohibited interest is required within 90 days.

(2) Remedial action may include:

(i) Reassignment of the employee to a position which performs no function or duty under the Act, or

(ii) Divestiture of the prohibited financial interest, or

(iii) Other appropriate action which either eliminates the prohibited interest or eliminates the situation which creates the conflict.

(3) Reports of noncompliance. If 90 days after an employee is notified to take remedial action that employee is not in compliance with the requirements of the Act and these regulations, the Head of the State Regulatory Authority shall report the facts of the situation to the Director who shall determine whether action to impose the penalties prescribed by the Act should be initiated. The report to the Director shall include the original or a certified true copy of the employee's statement and any other information pertinent to the Director's determination, including a statement of actions being taken at the time the report is made.

(b) Actions to be taken by the Director:

(1) Remedial action to effect resolution. Violations of the regulations in this part of the Head of a State Regulatory Authority, will be cause for remedial action by the Governor of the State or other appropriate State official based on recommendations from the Director on behalf of the Secretary. The Governor or other appropriate State official shall promptly advise the Head of the State Regulatory Authority that remedial action which will resolve the prohibited interest is required within 90 days.

(2) Remedial action should be consistent with the procedures prescribed for other State employees by ยง 705.19(a)(2).

(3) Reports on noncompliance.

(i) If 90 days after the Head of State Regulatory Authority is notified to take remedial action the Governor or other appropriate State official notifies the Director that the Head of the State Regulatory Authority is not in compliance with the Act and these regulations, the Director shall report the facts of the situation to the Secretary who shall determine whether the action to impose the penalties prescribed by the Act, or to impose the eligibility restrictions prescribed by ยง 705.1 should be initiated.

(ii) Within 30 days of receipt of a noncompliance report from the Head of a Regulatory Authority under ยง 705.19(a)(3), the Director shall notify the Head of the State Regulatory Authority and the employee involved of additional action to be taken. Actions which the Director may take include but are not limited to the granting of additional time for resolution or the initiation of action to impose the penalties prescribed by the Act.
