
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 28 - FUSES FOR USE WITH DIRECT CURRENT IN PROVIDING SHORT-CIRCUIT PROTECTION FOR TRAILING CABLES IN COAL MINES
##### Subpart E - Construction, Performance, and Testing Requirements
###### ยง 28.41 Testing requirements; general.

(a) The open circuit voltage of the test circuit shall be 300 volts d.c., or 600 volts d.c., depending on the voltage rating of the fuse being tested.

(b) Time constant of the circuit (defined as T = L/R, where T is the time in seconds, L is the inductance in henries, and R is the resistance in ohms) shall be as follows:

(1) For 10,000 amperes and greater currents, T = 0.016 second or more;

(2) For 1,000 amperes to 10,000 amperes, T = 0.008 second or more;

(3) For 100 amperes to 1,000 amperes, T = 0.006 second or more; and

(4) For less than 100 amperes, T = 0.002 seconds or more.

(c) Test currents shall be as follows:

(1) 200 percent of rated current for fuses having 200 or less ampere rating, or 300 percent of rated current for fuses having greater than 200 ampere rating;

(2) 900 percent of rated current;

(3) 10,000 amperes; and

(4) 20,000 amperes.

(d) The voltage shall continue to be applied for at least 30 seconds after completion of circuit interruption.

(e) Five fuses of each case size shall be tested at each test current specified in paragraph (c) of this section, with the value of the fuse being the maximum value for the case size.

(f) Three of each lot of five fuses shall be preconditioned at 95 +/-5 percent RH for not less than 5 days immediately prior to testing; and the other two fuses of each lot of five shall be preconditioned by heating to 90 &#xB0;C. for 24 hours, and tested within 1 hour after removal from the preconditioning chamber.

(g) At least three of each lot of five fuses shall be tested in a fuse holder of a trolley-tap type, and the fuse holder shall remain intact and shall readily accept and retain a replacement fuse.
