
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.11 General obligations.
###### Mine maps.

(c)(1)Any person conducting surface coal mining and reclamation operations on and after May 3, 1978, shall submit two copies of an accurate map of the mine and permit area at a scale of 1:6000 or larger. The map shall show as of May 3, 1978, the lands from which coal has not yet been removed and the lands and structures which have been used or disturbed to facilitate mining. One copy of the mine map shall be submitted to the State regulatory authority and one copy shall be submitted to the Regional Director, OSM, before July 3, 1978.

(2) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, any person who conducted surface coal mining and reclamation operations pursuant to a small operator's exemption shall submit before March 15, 1979, two copies of an accurate map of each mine showing the permit area at a scale of 1:6000 or larger. One copy shall be submitted to the state regulatory authority and one copy to the appropriate Regional Director, OSM. The map shall show as of December 31, 1978 or the expiration date of the exemption (whichever is earlier) the lands from which coal had not yet been removed, the lands and structures which had been used or disturbed to facilitate mining, and the lands which had not been disturbed. The map need not be submitted if these areas have already been shown on mine maps submitted to the state regulatory authority, if a copy is available to the appropriate Regional Director pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section or 30 CFR 720.13(b).
