
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.13 Postmining use of land.
###### Criteria for approving alternative postmining use of land.

(d)An alternative postmining land use shall be approved by the regulatory authority, after consultation with the landowner or the land-management agency having jurisdiction over State or Federal lands, if the following criteria are met. Proposals to remove an entire coal seam running through the upper part of a mountain, ridge, or hill must also meet these criteria in addition to the requirements of ยง 716.3 of this chapter.

(1) The proposed land use is compatible with adjacent land use and, where applicable, with existing local, State or Federal land use policies and plans. A written statement of the views of the authorities with statutory responsibilities for land use policies and plans shall accompany the request for approval. The permittee shall obtain any required approval of local, State or Federal land management agencies, including any necessary zoning or other changes necessarily required for the final land use.

(2) Specific plans have been prepared which show the feasibility of the proposed land use as related to needs, projected land use trends, and markets and that include a schedule showing how the proposed use will be developed and achieved within a reasonable time after mining and be sustained. The regulatory authority may require appropriate demonstrations to show that the planned procedures are feasible, reasonable, and integrated with mining and reclamation, and that the plans will result in successful reclamation.

(3) Provision of any necessary public facilities is assured as evidenced by letters of commitment from parties other than the permittee, as appropriate, to provide them in a manner compatible with the permittee's plans.

(4) Specific and feasible plans for financing attainment and maintenance of the postmining land use including letters of commitment from parties other than the permittee as appropriate, if the postmining land use is to be developed by such parties.

(5) The plans are designed under the general supervision of a registered professional engineer, or other appropriate professional, who will ensure that the plans conform to applicable accepted standards for adequate land stability, drainage, and vegetative cover, and aesthetic design appropriate for the postmining use of the site.

(6) The proposed use or uses will neither present actual or probable hazard to public health or safety nor will they pose any actual or probable threat of water flow diminution or pollution.

(7) The use or uses will not involve unreasonable delays in reclamation.

(8) Necessary approval of measures to prevent or mitigate adverse effects on fish and wildlife has been obtained from the regulatory authority and appropriate State and Federal fish and wildlife management agencies.

(9) Proposals to change premining land uses of range, fish and wildlife habitat, forest land, hayland, or pasture to a postmining cropland use, where the cropland would require continuous maintenance such as seeding, plowing, cultivation, fertilization, or other similar practices to be practicable or to comply with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, shall be reviewed by the regulatory authority to assure that-

(i) There is a firm written commitment by the permittee or by the landowner or land manager to provide sufficient crop management after release of applicable performance bonds to assure that the proposed postmining cropland use remains practical and reasonable;

(ii) There is sufficient water available and committed to maintain crop production; and

(iii) Topsoil quality and depth are shown to be sufficient to support the proposed use.

(10) The regulatory authority has provided by public notice not less than 45 days nor more than 60 days for interested citizens and local, State and Federal agencies to review and comment on the proposed land use.
