
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.14 Backfilling and grading.
###### Final graded slopes.

(b)(1) The final graded slopes shall not exceed either the approximate premining slopes as determined according to paragraph (a)(1) and approved by the regulatory authority or any lesser slope specified by the regulatory based on consideration of soil, climate, or other characteristics of the surrounding area. Postmining final graded slopes need not be uniform. The requirements of this paragraph may be modified by the regulatory authority where the mining is reaffecting previously mined lands that have not been restored to the standards of this section and sufficient spoil is not available to return to the slope determined according to paragraph (a)(1). Where such modifications are approved, the permittee shall, as a minimum, be required to-

(i) Retain all overburden and spoil on the solid portion of existing or new benches; and

(ii) Backfill and grade to the most moderate slope possible to eliminate the highwall which does not exceed the angle of repose or such lesser slopes as is necessary to assure stability.

(2) On approval by the regulatory authority and in order to conserve soil moisture, ensure stability, and control erosion on final graded slopes, cut-and-fill terraces may be allowed if the terraces are compatible with the postmining land use approved under ยง 715.13, and are appropriate substitutes for construction of lower grades on the reclaimed lands. The terraces shall meet the following requirements:

(i) Where specialized grading, foundation conditions, or roads are required for the approved postmining land use, the final grading may include a terrace of adequate width to ensure the safety, stability, and erosion control necessary to implement the postmining land use plan.

(ii) The vertical distance between terraces shall be as specified by the regulatory authority to prevent excessive erosion and to provide long-term stability.
