
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### § 715.15 Disposal of excess spoil.
###### General requirements.

(a)(1) Spoil not required to achieve the approximate original contour within the area where overburden has been removed shall be hauled or conveyed to and placed in designated disposal areas within a permit area, if the disposal areas are authorized for such purposes in the approved permit application in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. The spoil shall be placed in a controlled manner to ensure-

(i) That leachate and surface runoff from the fill will not degrade surface or ground waters or exceed the effluent limitations of § 715.17(a)

(ii) Stability of the fill; and

(iii) That the land mass designated as the disposal area is suitable for reclamation and revegetation compatible with the natural surroundings.

(2) The fill shall be designed using recognized professional standards, certified by a registered professional engineer, and approved by the regulatory authority.

(3) All vegetative and organic materials shall be removed from the disposal area and the topsoil shall be removed, segregated, and stored or replaced under § 715.16. If approved by the regulatory authority, organic material may be used as mulch or may be included in the topsoil to control erosion, promote growth of vegetation, or increase the moisture retention of the soil.

(4) Slope protection shall be provided to minimize surface erosion at the site. Diversion design shall conform with the requirements of § 715.17(c). All disturbed areas, including diversion ditches that are not riprapped, shall be vegetated upon completion of construction.

(5) The disposal areas shall be located on the most moderately sloping and naturally stable areas available as approved by the regulatory authority. If such placement provides additional stability and prevents mass movement, fill materials suitable for disposal shall be placed upon or above a natural terrace, bench, or berm.

(6) The spoil shall be hauled or conveyed and placed in horizontal lifts in a controlled manner, concurrently compacted as necessary to ensure mass stability and prevent mass movement, covered, and graded to allow surface and subsurface drainage to be compatible with the natural surroundings and ensure a long-term static safety factor of 1.5.

(7) The final configuration of the fill must be suitable for postmining land uses approved in accordance with § 715.13, except that no depressions or impoundments shall be allowed on the completed fill.

(8) Terraces may be utilized to control erosion and enhance stability if approved by the regulatory authority and consistent with § 715.14(b)(2).
