
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.15 Disposal of excess spoil.
###### v:,h

(9) Where the slope in the disposal area exceeds 12.8(36 percent), or such lesser slope as may be designated by the regulatory authority based on local conditions, keyway cuts (excavations to stable bedrock) or rock toe buttresses shall be constructed to stabilize the fill. Where the toe of the spoil rests on a downslope, stability analyses shall be performed to determine the size of rock toe buttresses and key way cuts.

(10) The fill shall be inspected for stability by a registered engineer or other qualified professional specialist experienced in the construction of earth and rockfill embankments at least quarterly throughout construction and during the following critical construction periods: (i) Removal of all organic material and topsoil, (ii) placement of underdrainage systems, (iii) installation of surface drainage systems, (iv) placement and compaction of fill materials, and (v) revegetation. The registered engineer or other qualified professional specialist shall provide to the regulatory authority a certified report within 2 weeks after each inspection that the fill has been constructed as specified in the design approved by the regulatory authority. A copy of the report shall be retained at the minesite.

(11) Coal processing wastes shall not be disposed of in head-of-hollow or valley fills, and may only be disposed of in other excess spoil fills, if such waste is-

(i) Demonstrated to be nontoxic and nonacid forming; and

(ii) Demonstrated to be consistent with the design stability of the fill.

(12) If the disposal area contains springs, natural or manmade watercourses, or wet-weather seeps, an underdrain system consisting of durable rock shall be constructed from the wet areas in a manner that prevents infiltration of the water into the spoil material. The underdrain system shall be protected by an adequate filter and shall be designed and constructed using standard geotechnical engineering methods.

(13) The foundation and abutments of the fill shall be stable under all conditions of construction and operation. Sufficient foundation investigation and laboratory testing of foundation materials shall be performed in order to determine the design requirements for stability of the foundation. Analyses of foundation conditions shall include the effect of underground mine workings, if any, upon the stability of the structure.

(14) Excess spoil may be returned to underground mine workings, but only in accordance with a disposal program approved by the regulatory authority and MSHA.

(15) Disposal of excess spoil from an upper actively mined bench to a lower pre-existing bench by means of gravity transport is permitted provided that:

(i) The operator receives the prior written approval of the regulatory authority upon demonstration by the operator that the spoil to be disposed of by gravity transport is not necessary for elimination of the highwall and return of the upper bench to approximate original contour;

(ii) The following conditions and performance standards in addition to the environmental performance standards of this part are met:

(A) The highwall of the lower bench intersects (meets) the upper actively mined bench with no natural slope between them;

(B) The gravity transport points are determined on a site specific basis by the operator and approved by the regulatory authority to minimize hazards to health and safety and to ensure that damage will be minimized should spoil accidentally move down-slope of the lower bench;

(C) The excess spoil is placed only on solid portions of the lower pre-existing bench;

(D) All excess spoil on the lower solid bench, including that spoil immediately below the gravity transport points, is rehandled and placed in a controlled manner to eliminate as much of the lower highwall as practicable. Rehandling and placing the excess spoil on the lower solid bench shall consist of placing the excess spoil in horizontal lifts in a controlled manner, concurrently compacted as necessary to ensure mass stability and prevent mass movement, and graded to allow surface and subsurface drainage to be compatible with the natural surroundings to ensure a long term static safety factor of 1.3. Spoil on the bench prior to the current mining operation need not be rehandled except to ensure stability of the fill.

(E) A safety berm is constructed on the solid portion of the lower bench prior to gravity transport of the excess spoil. Where there is insufficient material on the lower bench to construct a safety berm, only that amount of spoil necessary for the construction of the berm may be gravity transported to the lower bench prior to construction of the berm. The safety berm must be removed by the operator by final grading operations;

(F) The area of the lower bench used to facilitate the disposal of excess spoil is considered a disturbed area.
