
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.15 Disposal of excess spoil.
###### Valley fills.

(b)Valley fills shall meet all of the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and the additional requirements of this section.

(1) The fill shall be designed to attain a long-term static safety factor of 1.5 based upon data obtained from subsurface exploration, geotechnical testing, foundation design, and accepted engineering analyses.

(2) A subdrainage system for the fill shall be constructed in accordance with the following:

(i) A system of underdrains constructed of durable rock shall meet the requirements of paragraph (2)(iv) of this section and:

(A) Be installated along the natural drainage system;

(B) Extend from the toe to the head of the fill; and

(C) Contain lateral drains to each area of potential drainage or seepage.

(ii) A filter system to insure the proper functioning of the rock underdrain system shall be designed and constructed using standard geotechnical engineering methods.

(iii) In constructing the underdrains, no more than 10 percent of the rock may be less than 12 inches in size and no single rock may be larger than 25 percent of the width of the drain. Rock used in underdrains shall meet the requirements of paragraph (2)(iv) of this section. The minimum size of the main underdrain shall be:

(iv) Underdrains shall consist of nondegradable, non-acid or toxic forming rock such as natural sand and gravel, sandstone, limestone, or other durable rock that will not slake in water and will be free of coal, clay or shale.

(3) Spoil shall be hauled or conveyed and placed in a controlled manner and concurrently compacted as specified by the regulatory authority, in lifts no greater than 4 feet or less if required by the regulatory authority to-

(i) Achieve the densities designed to ensure mass stability;

(ii) Prevent mass movement;

(iii) Avoid contamination of the rock underdrain or rock core; and

(iv) Prevent formation of voids.

(4) Surface water runoff from the area above the fill shall be diverted away from the fill and into stabilized diversion channels designed to pass safely the runoff from a 100-year, 24-hour precipitation event or larger event specified by the regulatory authority. Surface runoff from the fill surface shall be diverted to stabilized channels off the fill which will safely pass the runoff from a 100-year, 24-hour precipitation event. Diversion design shall comply with the requirements of ยง 715.17(c).
