
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.15 Disposal of excess spoil.
###### Head-of-hollow fills.

(c)Disposal of spoil in the head-of-hollow fill shall meet all standards set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) and the additional requirements of this section.

(1) The fill shall be designed to completely fill the disposal site to the approximate elevation of the ridgeline. A rock-core chimney drain may be utilized instead of the subdrain and surface diversion system required for valley fills. If the crest of the fill is not approximately at the same elevation as the low point of the adjacent ridgeline, the fill must be designed as specified in paragraph (b), with diversion of runoff around the fill. A fill associated with contour mining and placed at or near the coal seam, and which does not exceed 250,000 cubic yards may use the rock-core chimney drain.

(2) The alternative rock-core chimney drain system shall be designed and incorporated into the construction of head-of-hollow fills as follows:

(i) The fill shall have, along the vertical projection of the main buried stream channel or rill a vertical core of durable rock at least 16 feet thick which shall extend from the toe of the fill to the head of the fill, and from the base of the fill to the surface of the fill. A system of lateral rock underdrains shall connect this rock core to each area of potential drainage or seepage in the disposal area. Rocks used in the rock core and underdrains shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iv).

(ii) A filter system to ensure the proper functioning of the rock core shall be designed and constructed using standard geotechnical engineering methods.
