
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.15 Disposal of excess spoil.
###### Durable rock fills.

(d)In lieu of the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section the regulatory authority may approve alternate methods for disposal of hard rock spoil, including fill placement by dumping in a single lift, on a site specific basis, provided the services of a registered professional engineer experienced in the design and construction of earth and rockfill embankments are utilized and provided the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (a) are met. For this section, hard rock spoil shall be defined as rockfill consisting of at least 80 percent by volume of sandstone, limestone, or other rocks that do not slake in water. Resistance of the hard rock spoil to slaking shall be determined by using the slake index and slake durability tests in accordance with guidelines and criteria established by the regulatory authority.

(1) Spoil is to be transported and placed in a specified and controlled manner which will ensure stability of the fill.

(i) The method of spoil placement shall be designed to ensure mass stability and prevent mass movement in accordance with the additional requirements of this section.

(ii) Loads of noncemented clay shale and/or clay spoil in the fill shall be mixed with hard rock spoil in a controlled manner to limit on a unit basis concentrations of noncemented clay shale and clay in the fill. Such materials shall comprise no more than 20 percent of the fill volume as determined by tests performed by a registered engineer and approved by the regulatory authority.

(2)(i) Stability analyses shall be made by the registered professional engineer. Parameters used in the stability analyses shall be based on adequate field reconnaissance, subsurface investigations, including borings, and laboratory tests.

(ii) The embankment which constitutes the valley fill or head-of-hollow fill shall be designed with the following factors of safety:

(3) The design of a head-of-hollow fill shall include an internal drainage system which will ensure continued free drainage of anticipated seepage from precipitation and from springs or wet weather seeps.

(i) Anticipated discharge from springs and seeps and due to precipitation shall be based on records and/or field investigations to determine seasonal variation. The design of the internal drainage system shall be based on the maximum anticipated discharge.

(ii) All granular material used for the drainage system shall be free of clay and consist of durable particles such as natural sands and gravels, sandstone, limestone or other durable rock which will not slake in water.

(iii) The internal drain shall be protected by a properly designed filter system.

(4) Surface water runoff from the areas adjacent to and above the fill shall not be allowed to flow onto the fill and shall be diverted into stabilized channels which are designed to pass safely the runoff from a 100-year, 24-hour precipitation event. Diversion design shall comply with the requirements of ยง 715.17(c).
