
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 33 - DUST COLLECTORS FOR USE IN CONNECTION WITH ROCK DRILLING IN COAL MINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 33.6 Application procedures and requirements.

(a)(1) No investigation or testing for certification will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application (except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section), accompanied by all prescribed drawings, specifications, and related materials. The application and all related matters and correspondence shall be addressed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059. Fees calculated in accordance with part 5 of this title shall be submitted in accordance with § 5.40.

(2) Where the applicant for approval has used an independent laboratory under part 6 of this chapter to perform, in whole or in part, the necessary testing and evaluation for approval under this part, the applicant must provide to MSHA as part of the approval application:

(i) Written evidence of the laboratory's independence and current recognition by a laboratory accrediting organization;

(ii) Complete technical explanation of how the product complies with each requirement in the applicable MSHA product approval requirements;

(iii) Identification of components or features of the product that are critical to the safety of the product; and

(iv) All documentation, including drawings and specifications, as submitted to the independent laboratory by the applicant and as required by this part.

(3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to non-MSHA product safety standards which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent, under § 6.20 of this chapter, to MSHA's product approval requirements under this part.

(b) The application shall specify the operating conditions (see § 33.22) for which certification is requested.

(c) Shipment of the equipment to be tested shall be deferred until MSHA has notified the applicant that the application will be accepted. Shipping instructions will be issued by MSHA and shipping charges shall be prepaid by the applicant. Upon completion of the investigation and notification thereof to the applicant by MSHA, the applicant shall remove his equipment promptly from the test site (see § 33.30).

(d) Drawings and specifications shall be adequate in number and detail to identify fully the design of the unit or system and to disclose its materials and detailed dimensions of all component parts. Drawings must be numbered and dated to insure accurate identification and reference to records, and must show the latest revision. Specifications and drawings, including a complete assembly drawing with each part that affects dust collection identified thereon, shall include:

(1) Details of all dust-collector parts. A manufacturer who supplies the applicant with component parts or sub- assemblies may submit drawings and specifications of such parts or subassemblies direct to MSHA instead of to the applicant. If the unit or system is certified, MSHA will supply the applicant with a list, in duplicate, of drawing numbers pertaining to such parts or subassemblies for identification purposes only.

(2) Details of the electrical parts of units designed to operate as face equipment (see § 33.38) in accordance with the provisions of Part 18 of Subchapter D of this chapter. (Bureau of Mines Schedule 2, revised, the current revision of which is Schedule 2F).

(3) Storage capacity of the various stages of dust collection in the dust separator.

(4) Net filter area in the dust separator, and complete specifications of the filtering material.

(e) If an application is made for certification of a dust-collector unit or a combination unit that includes electrical parts, and is designed to operate as electric face equipment, as defined in § 33.38, the application shall be in triplicate.

(f) The application shall state that the unit or system is completely developed and of the design and materials which the applicant believes to be suitable for a finished marketable product.

(g) The applicant shall furnish a complete unit or system for inspection and testing. Spare parts, such as gaskets and other expendable components subject to wear in normal operation, shall be supplied by the applicant to permit continuous operation during test periods. If special tools are necessary to disassemble any part for inspection or test, they shall be furnished by the applicant.

(h) Each unit or system shall be carefully inspected before it is shipped from the place of manufacture or assembly and the results of the inspection shall be recorded on a factory-inspection form. The applicant shall furnish MSHA with a copy of the factory-inspection form with his application. The form shall direct attention to the points that must be checked to make certain that all parts are in proper condition, complete in all respects, and in agreement with the drawings and specifications filed with MSHA.

(i) With the application the applicant shall furnish MSHA with complete instructions for operating and servicing the unit or system and information as to the kind of power required. After MSHA's investigation, if any revision of the instructions is required a revised copy thereof shall be submitted to MSHA for inclusion with the drawings and specifications.
