
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### § 715.17 Protection of the hydrologic system.
###### Permanent impoundments.

(k)The permittee may construct, if authorized by the regulatory agency pursuant to this paragraph and § 715.13, permanent water impoundments on mining sites as a part of reclamation activities only when they are adequately demonstrated to be incompliance with §§ 715.13 and 715.14 in addition to the following requirements:

(1) The size of the impoundment is adequate for its intended purposes.

(2) The impoundment dam construction is designed to achieve necessary stability with an adequate margin of safety compatible with that of structures constructed under Pub. L. 83-566 (16 U.S.C. 1006).

(3) The quality of the impounded water will be suitable on a permanent basis for its intended use and discharges from the impoundment will not degrade the quality of receiving waters below the water quality standards established pursuant to applicable Federal and State law.

(4) The level of water will be reasonably stable.

(5) Final grading will comply with the provisions of § 715.14 and will provide adequate safety and access for proposed water users.

(6) Water impoundments will not result in the diminution of the quality or quantity of water used by adjacent or surrounding landowners for agricultural, industrial, recreational, or domestic uses.
