
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.19 Use of explosives.
###### Public notice of blasting schedule.

(c)At least 10 days, but not more than 20 days before beginning a blasting program in which explosives that use more than the equivalent of 5 pounds of TNT are detonated, the permittee shall publish a blasting schedule in a newspaper of general circulation in the locality of the proposed site. Copies of the schedule shall be distributed by mail to local governments and public utilities and to each residence within one-half mile of the blasting sites described in the schedule. The permittee shall republish and redistribute the schedule by mail at least every 3 months. Blasting schedules shall not be so general as to cover all working hours but shall identify as accurately as possible the location of the blasting sites and the time periods when blasting will occur. The blasting schedule shall contain at a minimum-

(1) Identification of the specific areas in which blasting will take place. The specific blasting areas described shall not be larger than 300 acres with a generally contiguous border;

(2) Dates and times when explosives are to be detonated expressed in not more than 4-hour increments;

(3) Methods to be used to control access to the blasting area;

(4) Types of audible warnings and all-clear signals to be used before and after blasting; and

(5) A description of possible emergency situations (defined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section), which have been approved by the regulatory authority, when it may be necessary to blast at times other than those described in the schedule.
