
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.20 Revegetation.
###### Methods of revegetation.

(e)(1) The permittee shall use technical publications or the results of laboratory and field tests approved by the regulatory authority to determine the varieties, species, seeding rates, and soil amendment practices essential for establishment and self-regeneration of vegetation. The regulatory authority shall approve species selection and planting plans.

(2) Where hayland, pasture, or range is to be the postmining land use, the species of grasses, legumes, browse, trees, or forbes for seeding or planting and their pattern of distribution shall be selected by the permittee to provide a diverse, effective, and permanent vegetative cover with the seasonal variety, succession, distribution, and regenerative capabilities native to the area. Livestock grazing will not be allowed on reclaimed land until the seedlings are established and can sustain managed grazing. The regulatory authority, in consultation with the permittee and the landowner or in concurrence with the governmental landmanaging agency having jurisdiction over the surface, shall determine when the revegetated area is ready for livestock grazing.

(3) Where forest is to be the postmining land use, the permittee shall plant trees adapted for local site conditions and climate. Trees shall be planted in combination with an herbaceous cover of grains, grasses, legumes, forbs, or woody plants to provide a diverse, effective, and permanent vegetation cover with the seasonal variety, succession, and regeneration capabilities native to the area.

(4) Where wildlife habitat is to be included in the postmining land use, the permittee shall consult with appropriate State and Federal wildlife and land management agencies and shall select those species that will fulfill the needs of wildlife, including food, water, cover, and space. Plant groupings and water resources shall be spaced and distributed to fulfill the requirements of wildlife.
