
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 715 - GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 715.20 Revegetation.
###### Standards for measuring success of revegetation.

(f)(1) Success of revegetation shall be measured on the basis of reference areas approved by the regulatory authority. Reference areas mean land units of varying size and shape identified and maintained under appropriate management for the purpose of measuring ground cover, productivity and species diversity that are produced naturally. The reference areas must be representative of geology, soils, slope, aspect, and vegetation in the permit area. Management of the reference area shall be comparable to that which will be required for the approved postmining land use of the area to be mined. The regulatory authority shall approve the estimating techniques that will be used to determine the degree of success in the revegetated area.

(2) The ground cover of living plants on the revegetated area shall be equal to the ground cover of living plants of the approved reference area for a minimum of two growing seasons. The ground cover shall not be considered equal if it is less than 90 percent of the ground cover of the reference area for any significant portion of the mined area. Exceptions may be authorized by the regulatory authority for-

(i) Previously mined areas that were not reclaimed to the standards required by this chapter prior to the effective date of these regulations. The ground cover of living plants for such areas shall not be less than required to control erosion, and in no case less than that existing before redisturbance.
