
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 716 - SPECIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 716.3 Mountaintop removal.
###### v:,h,v:,h,

(2) The final graded top plateau slopes on the mined area shall be less than 15so as to create a level plateau or gently rolling configuration and the outslopes of the plateau shall not exceed 12except where engineering data substantiates and the regulatory authority finds that a minimum static safety factor of 1.5 will be attained.

(3) The resulting level or gently rolling contour shall be graded to drain inward from the outslope except at specific points where it drains over the outslope in protected stable channels.

(4) Damage to natural watercourses below the area to be mined shall be prevented.

(5) Spoil shall be placed on the mountaintop bench as is necessary to achieve the postmining land use approved under ยง 715.13 of this chapter. All excess spoil material not retained on the mountaintop shall be placed in accordance with the standards of ยง 715.15 of this chapter.

(c)(1) All permits giving approval for mountaintop removal shall be reviewed not more than 3 years from the date of issuance of the permit, unless the permittee affirmatively demonstrates and the regulatory authority finds that all operations are proceeding in accordance with the terms of the permit and applicable requirements of the Act and the regulations of this part. The terms of the permit shall be in accordance with the requirements of the Act and the regulations of this part.

(2) The terms of a permit for mountaintop removal may be modified by the regulatory authority if it determines that more stringent measures are necessary to prevent or control slides and erosion, prevent damage to natural water courses, avoid water pollution, or to assure successful revegetation.
