
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 716 - SPECIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 716.4 Special bituminous coal mines.
###### Definition.

(a)Special bituminous coal surface mines as used in this section means those bituminous coal surface mines that are located in the State of Wyoming and that are being mined or will be mined according to the following criteria:

(1) Excavation of the mine pit takes place on a relatively limited site for an extended period of time. For the purposes of this section, mine pit means an open-pit mine in which the surface opening is at least the full size of the excavation and has a contiguous border. The pit generally is quite deep and is formed by the removal of relatively large amounts of overburden to obtain lesser amounts of coal. The term as used in this section applies only to mining operations that extract coal from seams dipping 15 degrees or more from the horizontal.

(2) Excavation of the mine pit follows a coal seam that inclines 15 degrees or more from the horizontal, and as the excavation proceeds downward it expands laterally to maintain stability of the pitwall or as necessary to accommodate the orderly expansion of the total mining operations.

(3)(i) Surface coal mining operations in the mine pit have taken place since January 1, 1972, and

(A) Operations in the mine pit are removing more than one coal seam, and

(B) Mining has begun on the deepest coal seam scheduled to be mined; or

(ii) Surface coal mining operations which may be developed after August 3, 1977, and are conducted on lands immediately adjacent to operations meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.

(4) The amount of material removed from the pit is large in proportion to the surface area disturbed.

(5) There is no practicable alternative to the deep open-pit method of mining the coal.

(6) There is no practicable way to entirely reclaim the land as required by part 715 of this chapter.
