
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 716 - SPECIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### § 716.4 Special bituminous coal mines.
###### Requirements for special bituminous coal mines operating prior to July 1, 1973.

(b)Those portions of a special bituminous coal mine approved for operation prior to July 1, 1973, including the orderly expansion of such a mine pit to the extent authorized by State law, shall at a minimum meet the general performance standards of part 715 of this chapter for all operations conducted on the permit area outside the mine pit and for those operations associated with spoil storage areas. The standards of part 715 also apply to the mine pit with the exception of § 715.14, which relates to backfilling and grading. Special requirements for backfilling and grading the mine pit area are as follows:

(1) In the final mine area, highwalls will be allowed to remain and benches will be allowed. Details of the benches shall be included in the mine plans submitted to the regulatory authority for approval.

(2) The exposed pit floors will be sloped and graded to provide access to the area, and topsoil shall be applied and the floor area seeded according to the requirements of §§ 715.16 and 715.20. Where water impoundments are included as part of the mine plan, riprap may be used if necessary to prevent erosion.

(3) Spoil piles will be graded and contoured with no more than overall slope of 17 degrees allowed, and terraces may be used to break the slope when it can be shown that terraces will accomplish the required reclamation. For the postmining land use, steeper slopes may be permitted upon approval of the regulatory authority, provided it can be demonstrated that such method will provide the required results.
