
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 33 - DUST COLLECTORS FOR USE IN CONNECTION WITH ROCK DRILLING IN COAL MINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 33.11 Approval plates.

(a) A certificate of approval will be accompanied by a photograph of a design for an approval plate, bearing the emblem of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, the name of the applicant, the name of the unit, the approval number or space for the approval number (or numbers if permissibility of electrical parts is involved), spaces for the type and the serial numbers of the unit, conditions of approval, and identifying numbers of the dust-collector parts. When deemed necessary by MSHA, an appropriate statement shall be added, giving the precautions to be observed in maintaining the unit in an approved condition.

(b) An approval plate for a unit designed for use in a nongassy coal mine shall state that any electrical parts are not certified for use in a gassy coal mine. (See ยง 33.38(c).)

(c) The applicant shall reproduce the design either as a separate plate or by stamping or molding it in some suitable place on each unit to which it relates. The size, type, and method of attaching and location of an approval plate are subject to the approval of MSHA. The method of affixing the plate shall not impair the dust-collection or explosion-proof features of the unit.

(d) The approval plate identifies the unit, to which it is attached, as permissible, and is the applicant's guarantee that the unit complies with the requirements of this part. Without an approval plate, no unit has the status of "permissible" under the provisions of this part.

(e) Use of the approval plate obligates the applicant to whom the certificate of approval was granted to maintain the quality of each unit bearing it and guarantees that it is manufactured and assembled according to the drawings and specifications upon which a certificate of approval was based. Use of the approval plate is not authorized except on units that conform strictly with the drawings and specifications upon which the certificate of approval was based.
