
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 717 - UNDERGROUND MINING GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 717.14 Backfilling and grading of road cuts, mine entry area cuts, and other surface work areas.

(a) Upon completion of underground mining, surface work areas which are involved in excavation, disposal of materials, or otherwise affected, shall be regraded to approximate original contour. The permittee shall transport, backfill and compact fill material to assure stability or to prevent leaching of toxic pollutants. Barren rock or similar materials excess to the mining operations and which are disposed on the land surface shall be subject to the provision of ยง 717.15 of this part. Roads and support facility areas existing prior to the effective date of this part and used in support of underground mining operations which are subject to this part shall be regraded to the extent deemed feasible by the regulatory authority based on the availability of backfill material and resulting stability of the affected lands after reclamation. As a minimum, the permittee shall be required to:

(1) Retain all earth, rock and other mineral nonwaste materials on the solid portion of existing or new benches, except that the regulatory authority may permit placement of such material at the site of the faceup as a means of disposing of excavated spoil when additional working space is needed to facilitate operations. Such placement of material shall be limited to minimize disturbance of land and to the hydrologic balance. Such fills shall be stabilized with vegetation and shall achieve a minimum static safety factor of 1.5. In no case shall the outslope exceed the angle of repose.

(2) Backfill and grade to the most moderate slope possible to eliminate any highwall along roads, mine entry faces or other areas. Slopes shall not exceed the angle of repose or such lesser slopes as required by the regulatory authority to maintain stability.

(b) On approval by the regulatory authority and in order to conserve soil moisture, ensure stability, and control erosion on final graded slopes, cut-and-fill terraces may be allowed if the terraces are appropriate substitutes for construction of lower grades on the reclaimed lands. The terraces shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The width of the individual terrace bench shall not exceed 20 feet unless specifically approved by the regulatory authority as necessary for stability erosion control, or roads.

(2) The vertical distance between terraces shall be as specified by the regulatory authority to prevent excessive erosion and to provide long/term stability.
