
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 717 - UNDERGROUND MINING GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 717.17 Protection of the hydrologic system.
###### Water quality standards and effluent limitations.

(a)(1) All surface drainage from the disturbed area, including disturbed areas that have been graded, seeded or planted and which remain subject to the requirements of this section, except for drainage from disturbed areas that have met the requirements of ยง 717.20 shall be passed through a sedimentation pond or a series of sedimentation ponds prior to leaving the permit area. All waters which flow or are removed from underground operations or underground waters which are removed from other areas to facilitate mining and which discharge to surface waters must be passed through appropriate treatment facilities prior to discharge where necessary to meet effluent limitations.

(2) For purposes of this section only, disturbed areas shall include areas of surface operations but shall not include those areas in which only diversion ditches, sedimentation ponds, or roads are installed in accordance with this section and the upstream area is not otherwise disturbed by the permittee. Disturbed areas shall not include those surface areas overlying the underground working unless those areas are also disturbed by surface operations such as fill (disposal) areas, support facilities areas, or other major activities which create a risk of pollution.

(3) The regulatory authority may grant exemptions from this requirement only when the disturbed drainage area within the total disturbed area is small and if the permittee shows that sedimentation ponds are not necessary to meet effluent limitations of this paragraph and to maintain water quality in downstream receiving waters. Sedimentation ponds required by this paragraph shall be constructed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section in appropriate locations prior to any mining in the affected drainage area in order to control sedimentation or otherwise treat water in accordance with this paragraph. Discharges from areas disturbed by underground operation and by surface operation and reclamation activities conducted thereon, must meet all applicable Federal and State regulations and, at a minimum, the following numerical effluent limitations:

(i) Any overflow or other discharge of surface water from the disturbed area within the permit area demonstrated by the permittee to result from a precipitation event larger than the 10-year 24-hour frequency event will not be subject to the effluent limitations of paragraph (a).

(ii) The permittee shall install, operate, and maintain adequate facilities to treat any water discharged from the disturbed area that violates applicable Federal or State regulations or the limitations of paragraph (a). If the pH of waters to be discharged from the disturbed area is normally less than 6.0, an automatic lime feeder or other neutralization process approved by the regulatory authority shall be installed, operated, and maintained. If the regulatory authority finds that small and infrequent treatment requirements to meet applicable standards do not necessitate use of an automatic neutralization process, and the mine normally produces less than 500 tons of coal per day, the regulatory authority can approve the use of a manual system if the permittee agrees to insure that consistent and timely treatment is carried out.

(iii) The effluent limitations for manganese shall be applicable only to acid drainage.
