
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 717 - UNDERGROUND MINING GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 717.17 Protection of the hydrologic system.
###### Surface water monitoring.

(b)(1) The permittee shall submit for approval by the regulatory authority a surface water monitoring program which meets the following requirements:

(i) Provides adequate monitoring of all discharge from the disturbed area and from the underground operations.

(ii) Provides adequate data to describe the likely daily and seasonal variation in discharges from the disturbed area in terms of flow, pH, total iron, total manganese, and total suspended solids and, as requested by the regulatory authority, any other parameter characteristic of the discharge.

(iii) Provides monitoring at appropriate frequencies to measure normal and abnormal variations in concentration.

(iv) Provides an analytical quality control system including standard methods of analysis such as those specified in 40 CFR part 136.

(v) Within sixty (60) days of the end of each sixty (60) day sample collection period, a report of all samples shall be made to the regulatory authority, unless the discharge for which water monitoring reports are required is subject to regulation by a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued in compliance with the Clean Water Act of 1977 (33 U.S.C. 1251-1378), (A) which includes equivalent reporting requirements, and (B) which requires filing of the water monitoring reports within 90 days or less of sample collection.

(2) Equipment, structures, or other measures necessary to accurately measure and sample the quality and quantity of surface water discharges from the disturbed area of the permit area shall be properly installed, maintained and operated and shall be removed when no longer required.
