
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 717 - UNDERGROUND MINING GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 717.17 Protection of the hydrologic system.
###### Dewatering.

(4)The water storage resulting from inflow shall be removed by a nonclogging dewatering device or a conduit spillway approved by the regulatory authority. The dewatering device shall not be located at a lower elevation than the maximum elevation of the sedimentation storage volume.

(5) Each person who conducts underground mining activities shall design, construct, and maintain sedimentation ponds to prevent short-circuiting to the extent possible.

(6) The design, construction, and maintenance of a sedimentation pond or other sediment control measures in accordance with this section shall not relieve the person from compliance with applicable effluent limitations as contained in paragraph (a) of this section.

(7) There shall be no out-flow through the emergency spillway during the passage of the runoff resulting from the 10-year, 24-hour precipitation events and lesser events through the sedimentation pond, regardless of the volume of water and sediment present from the underground mine during the runoff.

(8) Sediment shall be removed from sedimentation ponds.

(9) An appropriate combination of principal and emergency spillways shall be provided to discharge safely the runoff from a 25-year, 24-hour precipitation event, or larger event specified by the regulatory authority, plus any inflow from the underground mine. The elevation of the crest of the emergency spillway shall be a Minimum of 1.0 foot above the crest of the principal spillway. Emergency spillway grades and allowable velocities shall be approved by the regulatory authority.

(10) The minimum elevation of the top of the settled embankment shall be 1.0 foot above the water surface in the pond with the emergency spillway flowing at design depth. For embankments subject to settlement, this 1.0 foot minimum elevation requirement shall apply at all times, including the period after settlement.

(11) The constructed height of the dam shall be increased a minimum of 5 percent over the design height to allow for settlement, unless it has been demonstrated to the regulatory authority that the material used and the design will ensure against all settlement.
