
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 717 - UNDERGROUND MINING GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### § 717.17 Protection of the hydrologic system.
###### v:,h,

(14) The embankment foundation area shall be cleared of all organic matter, all surfaces sloped to no steeper than 11and the entire foundation surface scarified.

(15) The fill material shall be free of sod, large roots, other large vegetative matter, and frozen soil, and in no case shall coal-processing waste be used.

(16) The placing and spreading of fill material shall be started at the lowest point of the foundation. The fill shall be brought up in horizontal layers of such thickness as is required to facilitate compaction and meet the design requirement of this section. Compaction shall be conducted as specified in the design approved by the regulatory authority.

(17) If a sedimentation pond has an embankment that is more than 20 feet in height, as measured from the upstream top of the embankment to the crest of the emergency spillway, or has a storage volume of 20 acre-feet or more, the following additional requirements shall be met:

(i) An appropriate combination of principal and emergency spillways shall be provided to safely discharge the runoff resulting from a 100-year, 24-hour precipitation event, or a larger event specified by the regulatory authority, plus any in-flow from the underground mine.

(ii) The embankment shall be designed and constructed with an acceptable static safety factor of at least 1.5, or a higher safety factor as designated by the regulatory authority to ensure stability.

(iii) Appropriate barriers shall be provided to control seepage along conduits that extend through the embankment.

(iv) The criteria of the Mine Safety and Health Administration as published in 30 CFR 77.216 shall be met.

(18) Each pond shall be designed and inspected during construction under the supervision of, and certified after construction by, a registered professional engineer.

(19) The entire embankment including the surrounding areas disturbed by construction shall be stabilized with respect to erosion by a vegetative cover or other means immediately after the embankment is completed. The active upstream face of the embankment where water is being impounded may be riprapped or otherwise stabilized. Areas in which the vegetation is not successful or where rills and guillies develop shall be repaired and revegetated, in accordance with § 717.20.

(20) All ponds, including those not meeting the size or other criteria of 30 CFR 77.216(a), shall be examined for structural weakness, erosion, and other hazardous conditions and reports and notifications shall be made to the regulatory authority, in accordance with 30 CFR 77.216-3. With the approval of the regulatory authority, dams not meeting these criteria (30 CFR 77.216(a)) shall be examined four times per year.

(21) Sedimentation ponds shall not be removed until the disturbed area has been restored and the vegetation requirements of § 715.20 are met and the drainage entering the pond has met the applicable State and Federal water quality requirements for the receiving stream. When the sedimentation pond is removed, the affected land shall be regraded and revegetated in accordance with §§ 717.14 and 717.20, unless the pond has been approved by the regulatory authority for retention as compatible with the approved post-mining land use paragraph (k) of this section. If the regulatory authority approves retention, the sedimentation pond shall meet all the requirements for permanent impoundments of paragraph (k).

(22)(i) Where surface mining activities are proposed to be conducted on steep slopes, as defined in § 716.2 of this chapter, special sediment control measures may be followed if the person has demonstrated to the regulatory authority that a sedimentation pond (or series of ponds) constructed according to paragraph (e) of this section-

(A) Will jeopardize public health or safety; or

(B) Will result in contributions of suspended solids to streamflow in excess of the incremental sediment volume trapped by the additional pond size required.

(ii) Special sediment control measures shall include but not be limited to-

(A) Designing, constructing, and maintaining a sedimentation pond as near as physically possible to the disturbed area which complies with the design criteria of this section to the maximum extent possible.

(B) A plan and commitment to employ sufficient onsite sedimentation control measures including bench sediment storage, filtration by natural vegetation, mulching, and prompt revegetation which, in conjunction with the required sediment pond, will achieve and maintain applicable effluent limitations. The plan submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include a detailed description of all onsite control measures to be employed, a quantitative analysis demonstrating that onsite sedimentation control measures, in conjunction with the required sedimentation pond, will achieve and maintain applicable effluent limitations, and maps depicting the location of all onsite sedimentation control measures.
