
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 717 - UNDERGROUND MINING GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 717.17 Protection of the hydrologic system.
###### Acid and toxic materials.

(g)Drainage to ground and surface waters which emanates from acid-forming or toxic-forming mine waste materials and spoils placed on the land surface shall be avoided by-

(1) Identifying, burying, and treating where necessary, spoil or other materials that, in the judgment of the regulatory authority, will be toxic to vegetation or that will adversely affect water quality if not treated or buried. Such material shall be disposed in accordance with the provision of ยง 717.14(e);

(2) Preventing or removing water from contact with toxic-producing deposits;

(3) Burying or otherwise treating all toxic or harmful materials within 30 days if such materials are subject to wind and water erosion, or within a lesser period designated by the regulatory authority. If storage of such materials is approved, the materials shall be placed on impermeable material and protected from erosion and contact with surface water. Coal waste ponds and other coal waste materials shall be maintained according to paragraph (g)(4) of this section and ยง 717.18 shall apply;

(4) Burying or otherwise treating waste materials from coal preparation plants no later than 90 days after the cessation of the filling of the disposal area. Burial or treatment shall be in accordance with ยง 717.14(e) of this part;

(5) Casing, sealings, or otherwise managing boreholes, shafts, wells, and auger holes or other more or less horizontal holes to prevent pollution of surface or ground water and to prevent mixing of ground waters of significantly different quality. All boreholes that are within the permit area but are outside the surface coal mining area or which extend beneath the coal to be mined and into water-bearing strata shall be plugged permanently in a manner approved by the regulatory authority, unless boreholes have been approved for use in monitoring.
