
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 717 - UNDERGROUND MINING GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
##### ยง 717.17 Protection of the hydrologic system.
###### Ground water systems.

(h)(1) Underground operations shall be conducted to minimize adverse effects on ground water flow and quality, and to minimize offsite effects. The permittee will be responsible for performing monitoring according to paragraph (h)(2) of this section to ensure operations conform to this requirement.

(2) Ground water levels, subsurface flow and storage characteristics, and the quality of ground water shall be monitored in a manner approved by the regulatory authority to determine the effects of underground coal mining operations on the quantity and quality of water in ground water systems at the mine area and in associated offsite areas. When operations are conducted in such a manner that may affect the ground water system, ground water levels and ground water quality shall be periodically monitored using wells which can adequately reflect changes in ground water quantity and quality resulting from such operations. Sufficient water wells must be used by the permittee. The regulatory authority may require drilling and development of additional wells if needed to adequately monitor the ground water system. As specified and approved by the regulatory authority, additional hydrologic tests, such as aquifer tests, must be undertaken by the permittee to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
