
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 721 - FEDERAL INSPECTIONS
##### ยง 721.13 Inspections based on citizen requests.
###### Citizens reports.

(a)(1) Any person who believes that there is a violation of the Act, regulations or permit conditions required by the Act or that any imminent danger or harm exists may report this information to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement. Written reports must be signed and include a phone number where the reporting party can be contacted. Oral reports will be accepted but must be followed by a written and signed statement including the information reported. The complaint or other information shall be considered as having a reasonable basis if it alleges facts which, if proven to be true, would be sufficient to show a violation of the Act, regulations or permit. Unless the Office has reason to believe that the information is incorrect, or determines that even if true it would not constitute a violation, the Office shall conduct an inspection within 15 days of receipt of the complaint. If the complaint alleges an imminent danger or harm, the inspection shall be conducted promptly.

(2) The identity of any person supplying information to the Office relating to possible violations or imminent dangers or harms shall remain confidential with the Office, if requested by the person supplying the information, unless disclosure is required under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or by other Federal law.
