
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 725 - REIMBURSEMENTS TO STATES
##### ยง 725.12 Coverage of grants.

An agency may use grant money under this part to cover costs in excess of the base program for administering and enforcing the initial regulatory program. The Director or his authorized designee shall determine the base program from the State fiscal year budget in effect on August 3, 1977. Costs of the following items are eligible for reimbursement-

(a) Incorporation of the initial performance standards of this chapter in new permits issued by the State.

(b) Modification of existing permits to include the initial performance standards of this chapter.

(c) Additional inspections required to enforce the initial performance standards of this chapter.

(d) Inspections which are more detailed than inspections before the initial regulatory program.

(e) Responses to complaints related to the initial performance standards of this chapter.

(f) Enforcement actions required to secure compliance with the initial performance standards of this chapter.

(g) Additional administrative activities and supporting costs related to hiring additional inspectors and other personnel, revising permits, conducting inspections, preparing, copying and submitting reports required by part 720, and submitting applications for reimbursement grants under this part.

(h) Additional equipment required for inspection or support of inspections, as follows:

(1) An agency may charge any required item of equipment to the grant on a use bases in accordance with the principles set forth in Federal Management Circular 74-4, "Cost principles applicable to grants and contracts with State and local governments" (34 CFR part 255).

(2) An agency may purchase equipment, with grant funds where cost recovery through use charges is prohibited, made impractical or more costly than purchase by existing State laws or procedures.
