
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 725 - REIMBURSEMENTS TO STATES
##### ยง 725.15 Grant application procedures.

(a) The agency may submit its application (three copies) for a grant to the Director or his authorized designee at least sixty days prior to the beginning of the intended grant period, or as soon thereafter as possible.

(b) The agency shall use the application forms and procedures applicable to non-construction and/or construction programs specified by OSM in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102, "Uniform administrative requirements for grants-in-aid to State and local governments" (42 FR 45828). No preapplication is required. Each application must include the following:

(1) Part I, Application Form coversheet, SF 424.

(2) Part II, Project Approval Information.

(i) For non-construction grants use Form OSM-50A, Project Approval Information-Section A.

(ii) For construction grants use Form OSM-50A, Project Approval Information-Section A and Form OSM-50B, Project Approval Information-Section B.

(3) Part III, Budget Information.

(i) For non-construction grants use Form OSM-47, Budget Information Report, with a narrative explanation of computations.

(ii) For construction grants use Form OSM-48, Budget Information-Construction with a narrative explanation of computations.

(4) Part IV, Program Narrative Statement, Form OSM-51, providing the narrative for the goals to be achieved for both construction and non-construction grants.

(i) Form OSM-51 is supplemented by completion of column 5A of Forms OSM-51A and OSM-51B which reports the quantitative program management information of the Interim Regulatory grants.

(ii) Form OSM-51 is supplemented by completion of Column 5A of Form OSM-51C which reports the quantitative program management information of the Small Operator Program Administration and Operational grants.

(5) Part V, The standard assurance for non-construction activities or construction activities as specified in Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102, Attachment M.

(c) The agency shall include sufficient information to enable the Director or his authorized designee to determine the agency's base program and increases over the base program eligible for reimbursement grants. The agency shall include the following information, plus any other relevant data:

(1) A summary of the State permit, inspection and enforcement program prior to the addition of the requirements of the Act of 1977, including-

(i) Permit requirements and the system for issuing permits;

(ii) Mining-and-reclamation plan requirements;

(iii) Coverage and frequency of inspections;

(iv) Actions required to enforce mining and reclamation requirements;

(v) The number and nature of responses to complaints; and

(vi) Other regulatory activities and related administrative functions affected by the performance standards of the initial regulatory program of this chapter.

(2) A statement of the number of employees and annual budget required to carry out functions described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) A copy of all State constitutional, statutory and regulatory provisions applicable to the enforcement and administration of the initial regulatory program.

(4) An opinion of the State's chief legal officer as to whether and to what extent the State is authorized to enforce and administer the initial regulatory program.

(5) A statement of the additional work required to enforce the initial regulatory program for each of the agency activities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(6) The additional staff and funds required for the increased workload described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(7) The number and types of major equipment (equipment with a unit acquisition cost of $500 or more and having a life of more than two years) which the agency plans to purchase with grant funds.

(d) The Director or his authorized designee may waive the resubmission of information required by paragraphs (c) (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section in applications for the following grants.

(e) The Director or his authorized designee shall notify the agency within thirty days after the receipt of a complete application, or as soon thereafter as possible, whether it is or is not approved. If the application is not approved, the Director or his authorized designee shall set forth in writing the reasons it is not approved, and may propose modifications if appropriate. The agency may resubmit the application within thirty days. The Director or his authorized designee shall process the revised application as an original application.
