
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 725 - REIMBURSEMENTS TO STATES
##### ยง 725.16 Grant agreement.

(a) If a Director or his authorized designee approves an agency's grant application, the Director or his authorized designee shall prepare a grant agreement which includes-

(1) The approved scope of the program to be covered by the grant, including functions to be accomplished by other agencies.

(2) The base program budget and estimated costs in excess of the base program.

(3) The amount of the grant.

(4) Commencement and completion dates for the segment of the program covered by this grant and for major phases of the program to be completed during the grant period.

(5) Permissible transfers of funds to other State agencies.

(b) The Director or his authorized designee shall limit grants under this part to the additional costs to an agency for administering and enforcing the initial regulatory program.

(c) The Director or his authorized designee may permit the agency to assign functions and funds to other State agencies. The Director or his authorized designee shall require the grantee agency to retain responsibility for overall administration of the grant, including use of funds, accomplishment of functions and reporting.

(d) Except as may be provided by the grant agreement, costs may not be incurred prior to the execution of the agreement.

(e) The Director or his authorized designee shall transmit four copies of the grant agreement, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the agency for signature. The agency shall execute the grant agreement and return all copies within 3 calendar weeks after receipt, or within an extension of such time that may be granted by the Director or his authorized designee.

(f) The Director or his authorized designee shall sign the grant agreement upon its return from the agency and return one copy to the agency. The grant is effective and constitutes an obligation of Federal funds in the amount and for the purposes stated in the grant agreement at the time the Director or his authorized designee signs the agreement.

(g) Neither the approval of a program nor the award of any grant will commit or obligate the United States to award any continuation grant or to enter into any grant amendment, including grant increases to cover cost overruns.
