
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 725 - REIMBURSEMENTS TO STATES
##### ยง 725.18 Grant reduction and termination.
###### Conditions for reduction or termination.

(a)(1) If an agency fails to carry out its responsibilities pursuant to ยง 710.4(b) and part 720 of this chapter the Director or his authorized designee shall reduce or terminate the grant.

(2) If an agency violates the terms of a grant agreement, the Director or his authorized designee may reduce or terminate the grant.

(3) If an agency fails to enforce the initial performance standards of this chapter the Director or his authorized designee may reduce or terminate the grant.

(4) If an agency is not in compliance with the following nondiscrimination provisions, the Director or his authorized designee shall terminate the grant-

(i) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 252), Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs, which provides that no person in the United States shall on the grounds of race, color or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, and the implementing regulations at 43 CFR 17.

(ii) Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375, Equal Employment Opportunity, requiring that employees or applicants for employment not be discriminated against because of race, creed, color, sex or national origin, and the implementing regulations at 41 CFR 60.

(iii) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by Executive Order 11914, Nondiscrimination with Respect to the Handicapped in Federally Assisted Programs.

(5) If an agency fails to enforce the financial interest provisions of part 705 of this chapter the Director shall terminate the grant.

(6) If an agency fails to submit reports required by this part or parts 705 and 720 of this chapter the Director shall reduce or terminate the grant.
