
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter B - Initial Program Regulations
#### PART 725 - REIMBURSEMENTS TO STATES
##### ยง 725.18 Grant reduction and termination.
###### Grant reduction and termination procedures.

(b)(1) The Director or his authorized designee shall give at least 10 days written notice to the agency by certified mail, return receipt requested, of intent to reduce or terminate a grant. The Director or his authorized designee shall include in the notice the reasons for the proposed action and the proposed effective date of the action.

(2) The Director or his authorized designee shall afford the agency opportunity for consultation and remedial action prior to reducing or terminating a grant.

(3) The Director or his authorized designee shall notify the agency of the termination or reduction of the grant in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested.

(4) Upon termination the agency shall refund or credit to the United States that portion of the grant money paid or owed to the agency and allocated to the terminated portion of the grant. However any portion of the grant that is required to meet commitments made prior to the effective date of termination shall be retained by the agency.

(5) Upon termination, the agency shall reduce the amount of outstanding commitments insofar as possible and report to the Director or his authorized designee the uncommitted balance of funds awarded under the grant.

(6) Upon notification of intent to terminate, the agency shall not make any new commitments without the approval of the Director or his authorized designee.

(7) The Director or his authorized designee may allow termination costs as determined by applicable Federal cost principles listed in Federal management Circular 74-4.
