
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 732 - PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF STATE PROGRAM SUBMISSIONS
##### ยง 732.13 Decision by the Secretary.
###### et seq.,et seq.

(2) Obtained written concurrence of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency with respect to those aspects of a State program which relate to air or water quality standards promulgated under the authority of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251), or the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401).

(c) The Secretary's decision shall include the findings upon which it is based and shall be mailed to the State.

(d) The Secretary shall issue his decision within 6 months of the Director's receipt of a program submission.

(e) All decisions approving or disapproving a program, in whole or in part, shall be published in theindicating, in the event of disapproval, that the State has 60 days to submit a revised program for consideration.

(f) If the Secretary disapproves a program, in whole or in part, the State shall have 60 days from the date of publication of thenotice to submit a revised program to the Director for reconsideration. The procedures of ยง 732.11 will then apply to the revised State program, except that the time allowed between publication of notice and the public hearing for public review and comment may be shortened to not less than 15 days.

(g) The Secretary shall either approve or disapprove the revised program within 60 days from the date of submission of the revised program and publish that decision and reasons for the decision in theA decision disapproving the revised program constitutes the final decision by the Department disapproving that program in its entirety.

(h) If a revised State program is not submitted by a State within 60 days of an initial disapproval under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall disapprove the initial program submission in its entirety. This decision shall constitute the final decision by the Secretary. This decision and the basis for it shall be published in the

(i) A decision by the Secretary approving a program submission establishes a State program for the State which submitted it and constitutes the final decision by the Department. The State program becomes effective on the date of publication of the decision in theunless otherwise specified by the Secretary. The Secretary shall not give his approval unless the program submission can be approved in whole, except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section.

(j) The Secretary may conditionally approve a State program where the program is found to have minor deficiencies, provided:

(1) The deficiencies are of such a size and nature so as to render no part of a proposed State program incomplete;

(2) The State has initiated and is actively proceeding with steps to correct the deficiencies;

(3) The State agrees in writing to correct such deficiencies within a time established by the Secretary and stated in the conditional approval; and

(4) If the deficiencies have not been corrected by the date set forth in the Secretary's decision under paragraph (j)(3) of this section, the Director shall notify the Secretary that the deficiencies have not been corrected and shall within 30 days-

(i) Withdraw approval of the State program in whole or in part, and specify the extent to which approval of the State program is being withdrawn;

(ii) Substitute direct Federal enforcement of those portions of the permanent regulatory program that the State has failed to implement;

(iii) Initiate procedures in accordance with parts 733 and 736 of this chapter to withdraw State program approval and implement a Federal program for the State, including specifying necessary remedial actions to correct continued deficiencies; or

(iv) Take any combination of actions under paragraphs (j)(4) and (i) through (iii) of this section.
