
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 732 - PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF STATE PROGRAM SUBMISSIONS
##### ยง 732.17 State program amendments.
###### Provided,,And provided,

(3) A minimum public comment period of 30 days will be provided for each proposed State program amendment, except a 15 day public comment period may be provided where an amendment concerns changes in State law, regulations or the procedures contained in the approved program that are analogous to changes in SMCRA and/or implementing regulations:That the notice of receipt published in theincludes the full text of the proposed amendment:That all applicable provisions of 43 CFR part 14 are complied with.

(4) All State program amendments which may have an effect on historic properties shall be provided to the State Historic Preservation Officer and to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation for comment.

(5) Public hearings may be provided at the discretion of the Director and shall be held no sooner than five days before the close of the public comment period. The comment period shall end on a date following any public hearing scheduled to be held.

(6) Upon the close of the public comment period, the transcript, written presentations, exhibits and copies of all comments shall be transmitted to the Director.

(7) The Director shall consider all relevant information, including any information obtained from public hearings and comments, and shall approve or disapprove the amendment request within 30 days after the close of the public comment period established in accordance with ยง 732.17(h)(3).

(8) If the Director does not approve the amendment request, the State regulatory authority will have 60 days after publication of the Director's decision to submit a revised amendment for consideration by the Director. If more time may be needed by the State to submit a revised amendment, the Director may grant more time by specifying in the decision, a date by which the State regulatory authority must submit a revised amendment. The date specified in the Director's decision should be based on the circumstances of the situation and the established administrative or legislative procedures of the State in question.

(9) The Director will approve or not approve revised amendment submissions in accordance with the provisions under paragraph (h) of this section.

(10) The applicable criteria for approval or disapproval of State programs set forth in ยง 732.15 shall be utilized by the Director in approving or disapproving State program amendments.

(11) State program amendments shall not be approved until the Director has-

(i) Solicited and publicly disclosed the views of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the heads of other Federal agencies concerned with or having special expertise relevant to the program amendment(s) as proposed; and
