
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 733 - EARLY IDENTIFICATION OF CORRECTIVE ACTION, MAINTENANCE OF STATE PROGRAMS, PROCEDURES FOR SUBSTITUTING FEDERAL ENFORCEMENT OF STATE PROGRAMS, AND WITHDRAWING APPROVAL OF STATE PROGRAMS
##### ยง 733.13 Procedures for substituting Federal enforcement of State programs or withdrawing approval of State programs.
###### Evaluation.

(a)(1) The Director shall evaluate the administration of each state program at least annually.

(2) Any interested person may request the Director to evaluate a State program. The request shall set forth a concise statement of the facts which the person believes establishes the need for evaluation. The Director shall verify the allegations and determine within 60 days whether or not the evaluation shall be made and mail a written decision to the requestor.

(b) If the Director has reason to believe that a State is not effectively implementing, administering, maintaining or enforcing any part of its approved State program, the Director shall promptly notify the State regulatory authority in writing. The Director's notice shall-

(1) Provide sufficient information to allow the State regulatory authority to determine what portions of the program the Director believes are not being effectively implemented, administered, maintained, or enforced;

(2) State the reasons for such belief; and

(3) Specify the time period for the State regulatory authority to accomplish any necessary remedial actions.

(c) The Director shall provide the State regulatory authority an opportunity for an informal conference if the State requests an informal conference within 15 days after the expiration of the time period specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The informal conference may pertain to the facts or the time period for accomplishing remedial actions as specified by the Director's notification.

(d) If an informal conference is not held under paragraph (c) of this section, or if, following such a conference, the Director still has reason to believe that the State is failing to adequately implement, administer, maintain or enforce a part or all of a State program, the Director shall give notice to the State and to the public, specifying the basis for that belief and shall hold a public hearing in the State within 30 days of the expiration of the time period specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section or as modified at the informal conference held under paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) The State will continue to enforce its approved program unless upon completion of the hearing under paragraph (d) of this section and based upon the review of all available information, including the hearing transcript, written presentations and written comments, the Director finds that the State has failed to implement, administer, maintain or enforce effectively all or part of its approved State program. If the Director finds further that the State has not demonstrated its capability and intent to administer the State program, the Director shall either-

(1) Substitute for the State regulatory authority direct Federal enforcement of all or part of the State program in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section; or

(2) Recommend to the Secretary that he or she withdraw approval of the State program, in whole or in part, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. The recommendation shall be accompanied by all relevant information and shall include the reasons for the recommendation.
