
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 735 - GRANTS FOR PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 735.13 Submission of estimated annual budgets and allocation of funds.
###### Allocation of funds.

(c)(1) The Director shall allocate to the agencies the full amount requested and approved in the States' revised or actual budgets provided that the amount available in the Federal budget is sufficient.

(2) If the funds available for grants are insufficient to cover the total grant needs, including cooperative agreement grants, the Director shall allocate the funds available according to the proportion of each requested and approved agency's budget to the total of all agencies' requested and approved budgets.

(3) Allocation of a specific amount of funds to an agency does not assure that grants for that amount will be approved. Each agency must apply for and secure approval of grants in accordance with the requirements of this part.

(4) The Director shall reallocate any funds which are not requested by agencies as of June 1 of that year. Such funds shall be allocated primarily to those agencies which have received less than the allowable percentage of their eligible costs.

(5) Agencies which are allocated such additional funds may submit new or revised grant applications for the additional amounts on or before August 15, of that year.
