
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 735 - GRANTS FOR PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 735.18 Grant application procedures.

(a) The agency shall submit its application (three copies) to the Director or his authorized designee at least sixty days prior to the beginning of the intended grant period, or as soon thereafter as possible.

(b) The agency shall use the application forms and procedures specified by OSM in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102. No pre-application is required. Each application must include the following:

(1) Part I, Application Form Coversheet, SF 424.

(2) Part II, Project Approval Information.

(i) For non-construction grants use Form OSM-50A, Project Approval Information-Section A.

(ii) For construction grants use Form OSM-50A, Project Approval Information-Section A, and Form OSM-50B, Project Approval Information-Section B.

(3) Part III, Budget Information.

(i) For non-construction grants use Form OSM-47, Budget Information Report, with a narrative explanation of computations.

(ii) For construction grants use Form OSM-48, Budget Information-Construction, with a narrative explanation of computations.

(4) Part IV, Program Narrative Statement, Form OSM-51, providing the narrative for the goals to be achieved for both construction and non-construction grants.

(i) Form OSM-51 is supplemented by completion of Column 5A of Forms OSM-51A and OSM-51B which reports the quantitative Program Management information of the Administration and Enforcement grants.

(ii) Form OSM-51 is supplemented by completion of Column 5A of Form OSM-51C which reports the quantitative Program Management information of the Small Operator Assistance Program Administration and Operational grant.

(5) Part V, The standard assurances for non-construction activities or construction activities as specified in Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102, Attachment M.

(c) For program development grant applications, agencies shall include:

(1) An analysis and evaluation of the current State laws and changes required therein to conform to the requirements of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, unless previously submitted under part 725;

(2) A description of the changes expected to be required in State regulations, organization, staffing, training and other policies and operations in order to develop a State program which can be approved; and

(3) A program to develop the legislation, regulations, procedures, organization, staffing, training materials, and other program elements necessary to obtain program approval.

(d) For administration and enforcement grants and cooperative agreement grants, agencies shall include:

(1) A description of the specific operations in the approved program which will be implemented during the period for which the grant is requested.

(2) A description and justification of any major equipment (equipment with a unit acquisition cost of $500 or more and having a life of more than two years) which the agency proposes to acquire with the grant.

(e) The Director or his authorized designee shall notify the agency within thirty days after the receipt of a complete application, or as soon thereafter as possible, whether it is or is not approved. If the application is not approved, the Director or his authorized designee shall set forth in writing the reasons for disapproval and may propose modifications if appropriate. The agency may resubmit the application. The Director or his authorized designee shall process the revised application as an original application.
