
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 735 - GRANTS FOR PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 735.19 Grant agreement.

(a) If the Director or his authorized designee approves an agency's grant application, the Director or his authorized designee shall prepare a grant agreement which includes-

(1) The approved scope of the program to be covered by the grant;

(2) The approved budget, including the Federal share;

(3) Commencement and completion dates for the segment of the program covered by the grant and for major phases of the program to be completed during the grant period; and

(4) Permissible transfers of funds to other State agencies.

(b) The Director or his authorized designee may permit an agency to assign functions and funds to other State agencies. The Director or his authorized designee shall require the grantee agency to retain responsibility for overall administration of the grant, including use of funds, accomplishment of functions and reporting.

(c) Pre-agreement costs for program development grants shall be allowed only as specified in the grant agreement.

(d) The Director or his authorized designee shall transmit four copies of the grant agreement by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the agency for signature. The agency shall execute the grant agreement and return all copies of it within 3 calendar weeks after receipt, or within an extension of such time that may be granted by the Director or his authorized designee.

(e) The Director or his authorized designee shall sign the grant agreement upon its return from the agency and return one copy to the agency. The grant is effective and constitutes an obligation of Federal funds in the amount and for the purposes stated in the grant agreement at the time the Director or his authorized designee signs the agreement.

(f) Neither the approval of a program nor the award of any grant will commit or obligate the United States to award any continuation grant or enter into any grant amendment, including grant increases to cover cost overruns.
