
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 735 - GRANTS FOR PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 735.21 Grant reduction and termination.
###### Conditions for reduction or termination.

(a)(1) If an agency violates the terms of a grant agreement, the Director or his authorized designee may reduce or terminate the grant.

(2) If an agency fails to implement, enforce or maintain an approved program, or cooperative agreement, the Director or his authorized designee shall terminate the administration and enforcement grant or cooperative agreement grant.

(3) If an agency fails to implement, enforce or maintain only a part of the program, the Director or his authorized designee shall reduce the grant to the amount of the program being operated by the agency.

(4) If an agency is not in compliance with the following nondiscrimination provisions, the Director or his authorized designee shall terminate the grant-

(i) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 252). Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs, which provides that no person in the United States shall on the grounds of race, color or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, and the implementing regulations at 43 CFR part 17.

(ii) Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375, Equal Employment Opportunity, requiring that employees or applicants for employment not be discriminated against because of race, creed, color, sex, or national origin, and the implementing regulations at 41 CFR part 60.

(iii) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by Executive Order 11914, Nondiscrimination With Respect to the Handicapped in Federally Assisted Programs.

(5) If an agency fails to enforce the financial interest provisions of part 706 of this chapter the Director shall terminate the grant.

(6) If an agency fails to submit reports required by this part or part 705 of this chapter the Director shall reduce or terminate the grant.
