
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 735 - GRANTS FOR PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 735.26 Reports.

(a) The agency shall, for each grant made under this part, submit semiannually to the Director or his authorized designee a Financial Status Report, Form 269 for non-construction grant activities in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102, Attachment H and OSM requirements. This report shall be accompanied by a Performance Report, Form OSM-51 comparing actual accomplishments to the goals established for the period, prepared according to Attachment I of OMB Circular No. A-102 and OSM requirements. The agency shall also submit semiannually a separate Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs, Form 271, and accompanying narrative performance report comparing actual accomplishments with planned goals on grant funded construction activities.

(b) The Director or his authorized designee shall require through the grant agreement that semiannual reports describe the relationship of financial information to performance and productivity data, including unit cost information. This quantitative information will be reported on Forms OSM-51A and OSM-51B or OSM-51C, Quantitative Program Management Information, as applicable.

(c) The Director or his authorized designee shall require that when a grant is closed out in accordance with Attachment L to Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102, the following actions are taken:

(1) The grantee shall account for any property acquired with grant funds or received from the Government in accordance with the provisions of Attachment N to Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102. This may be accomplished by the submission of the Report of Government Property, Form OSM-60.

(2) The grantee shall submit a final financial report and thus release OSM from obligations under each grant or cooperative agreement that is being closed out.
