
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 735 - GRANTS FOR PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 735.27 Records.

(a) The agency shall maintain complete records in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-102. This includes books, documents, maps, and other evidence and accounting procedures and practices, sufficient to reflect properly-

(1) The amount, receipt, and disposition by the agency of all assistance received for the program.

(2) The total costs of the program, including all direct and indirect costs of whatever nature incurred for the performance of the program for which the grant has been awarded.

(b) Subgrantees and contractors, including contractors for professional services, shall maintain books, documents, papers, maps, and records which are pertinent to specific grant award.

(c) The agency's records and the records of its subgrantees and contractors, including professional services contracts, shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection, reproduction, copying, and audit by the Office, the Department of the Interior, the Comptroller General of the United States, the Department of Labor or any authorized representative.

(d) For completed or terminated grants the agency, subgrantees, and contractors shall preserve and make their records available to the Office, the Department of the Interior, the Comptroller General of the United States, Department of Labor, or any authorized representative pursuant to OMB Circular No. A-102.
