
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter C - Permanent Regulatory Programs for Non-Federal and Non-Indian Lands
#### PART 736 - FEDERAL PROGRAM FOR A STATE
##### ยง 736.25 Permit fees.
###### Refund of fees.

(b)(1) Upon receipt of a written request from an applicant, OSM will refund any permit fees paid under this section for a permit application when OSM denies the permit:

(i) On the basis of information concerning endangered or threatened species or their critical habitats or information. concerning cultural or historical resources, where such information was not available prior to submission of the permit application;

(ii) Because subsequent to submittal of a permit application, the lands contained in the permit application are declared unsuitable for mining under subchapter F of this chapter; or

(iii) Because subsequent to submittal of a permit application, the applicant is denied valid existing rights to mine under part 761 of this chapter where such rights are required for surface coal mining operations on the lands contained in the permit application.

(2) An applicant may file a written request for withdrawal of a permit application and a refund of fees in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(3) OSM will, upon receipt of written request for withdrawal of a permit application, cease processing of that application. If requested, OSM will refund fees paid by the applicant for the withdrawn application as follows:

(i) Any fees for a stage of OSM review not yet begun will be refunded;

(ii) Where technical review has begun, partial refund will be made of any technical review fee amounts remaining after deduction of actual OSM costs incurred for that technical review. Costs to process the withdrawal may also be deducted.

(4) No interest will be paid on refunded fees.
