
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Federal Lands Program
#### PART 740 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SURFACE COAL MINING AND RECLAMATION OPERATIONS ON FEDERAL LANDS
##### ยง 740.11 Applicability.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, both this subchapter and the pertinent State or Federal regulatory program in subchapter T of this chapter apply to:

(1) Coal exploration operations on Federal lands not subject to 43 CFR part 3400, and

(2) Surface coal mining and reclamation operations taking place on any Federal lands as defined in ยง 700.5 of this chapter, and lands (except Indian lands) over leased or unleased Federal minerals.

(b) Where OSM is the regulatory authority, references in the State program to the State or an agency or official of the State (with respect to functions of the State acting as regulatory authority) shall be construed as referring to OSM.

(c) Where the Secretary and a State have entered into a cooperative agreement, the cooperative agreement shall delineate the responsibilities of the Secretary and the State with respect to the administration of the regulatory program and this subchapter.

(d) Nothing in this subchapter shall affect in any way the authority of the Secretary or any Federal land management agency to include in any lease, license, permit, contract, or other instrument such conditions as may be appropriate to regulate surface coal mining and reclamation operations under provisions of law other than the Act on land under their jurisdiction.

(e) This subchapter shall not apply to surface coal mining and reclamation operations within a State prior to approval or promulgation of a regulatory program for the State.

(f) Where coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation operations within a State are on Federal lands and where no State or Federal program has been approved for the State, this subchapter shall apply in that State upon the effective date of these regulations.

(g) The definition of valid existing rights in ยง 761.5 of this chapter applies to any decision on a request for a determination of valid existing rights to conduct surface coal mining operations on the lands specified in ยง 761.11(a) and (b) of this chapter.
