
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Federal Lands Program
#### PART 740 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SURFACE COAL MINING AND RECLAMATION OPERATIONS ON FEDERAL LANDS
##### ยง 740.13 Permits.
###### 1,2

(A) A description of the affected area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation with respect to: () Increases in employment, population and revenues to public and private entities, and () the ability of public and private entities to provide goods and services necessary to support surface coal mining and reclamation operations.

(B) An evaluation of impacts to the scenic and aesthetic resources, including noise on the surrounding area, due to the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(C) A statement, including maps and ownership data as appropriate, of any cultural or historical sits listed on the National Register of Historic Places within the affected area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(D) A statement of the classes of properties of potential significance within the disturbed area, and a plan for the identification and treatment, in accordance with 36 CFR part 800, of properties significant and listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places within the disturbed area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(E) A description of the probable changes in air quality resulting from the mining operation and any necessary measures to comply with prevention of significant deterioration limitations, State Implementation Plans, or other Federal or State laws for air quality protection.

(F) A description of the location, acreage and condition of important habitats of selected indicator species located within the affected area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(G) A description of active and inactive nests and prey areas of any Bald or Golden eagles located within the affected area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operations.

(H) A description of all threatened and endangered species and their critical habitats located within the affected area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operations.

(4) Where the surface of the Federal lands is subject to a lease or permit issued by the Federal government to a person other than the applicant, the permit application package shall contain information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of ยง 740.15(c)(1). This requirement shall not apply to TVA-owned lands.
