
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter D - Federal Lands Program
#### PART 740 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SURFACE COAL MINING AND RECLAMATION OPERATIONS ON FEDERAL LANDS
##### ยง 740.15 Bonds on Federal lands.
###### Federal lessee protection bonds.

(c)(1) Where leased Federal coal is to be mined and the surface of the land is subject to a lease or permit issued by the United States for purposes other than surface coal mining, the applicant for a mining permit, if unable to obtain the written consent of the permittee or lessee of the surface to enter and commence surface coal mining operations, shall submit to the regulatory authority with his application evidence of execution of a bond or undertaking which meets the requirements of this section. The Federal lessee protection bond is in addition to the performance bond required by a regulatory program. This section does not apply to permits or licenses for the use of the surface that do not convey to the permittee or licensee the right of transfer, sale or consent to other uses.

(2) The bond shall be payable to the United States and, as applicable, the State for the use and benefit of the permittee or lessee of the surface lands involved.

(3) The bond shall secure payment to the surface estate for any damage which the surface coal mining and reclamation operation causes to the crops or tangible improvements of the permittee or lessee of the surface lands.

(4) The amount of the bond shall be determined either by the applicant and the Federal lessee or permittee or as determined in an action brought against the person conducting surface coal mining and reclamation operations or upon the bond in a court of competent jurisdiction.
