
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 35 - FIRE-RESISTANT HYDRAULIC FLUIDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 35.6 Application procedures and requirements.

(a)(1) No investigation or testing will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application accompanied by all descriptions, specifications, test samples, and related materials. The application and all related matters and correspondence shall be addressed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059. Fees calculated in accordance with part 5 of this title shall be submitted in accordance with ยง 5.40.

(2) Where the applicant for approval has used an independent laboratory under part 6 of this chapter to perform, in whole or in part, the necessary testing and evaluation for approval under this part, the applicant must provide to MSHA as part of the approval application:

(i) Written evidence of the laboratory's independence and current recognition by a laboratory accrediting organization;

(ii) Complete technical explanation of how the product complies with each requirement in the applicable MSHA product approval requirements;

(iii) Identification of components or features of the product that are critical to the safety of the product; and

(iv) All documentation, including drawings and specifications, as submitted to the independent laboratory by the applicant and as required by this part.

(3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to non-MSHA product safety standards which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent, under ยง 6.20 of this chapter, to MSHA's product approval requirements under this part.

(b) Descriptions and specifications shall be adequate in detail to identify fully the composition of the hydraulic fluid and to disclose its characteristics. Descriptions and specifications shall include:

(1) An identifying name or number of the fluid or concentrate for the production thereof.

(2) Pour point, &#xB0;F.; freezing point, &#xB0;F.; color; neutralization number or pH; viscosity at 100 &#xB0;F., 150 &#xB0;F., 175 &#xB0;F. (Saybolt or Furol); viscosity index; specific gravity.

(3) A statement of the water or other vehicle content in percent by weight or volume and how it affects fire resistance of the hydraulic fluid. If water is the vehicle, the statement shall include the applicant's method for determining water content quickly in the field.

(c) The application shall state whether the fluid submitted for test is toxic or irritating to the skin and what precautions are necessary in handling it.

(d) The application shall state that the applicant has tested the fluid which he believes to have fire-resistant properties, the basis for such determination, and submit with his application the data resulting from the applicant's use or laboratory tests to determine the fire-resistant properties of the fluid.

(e) The application shall contain evidence that the fluid has lubricating and hydraulic properties and is satisfactory for use in underground mining machinery; and shall state that the fluid, or concentrate for the production thereof, is fully developed and is of the composition that the applicant believes to be a suitable marketable product.

(f) The application shall state the nature, adequacy, and continuity of control of the constituents of the fluid to maintain its fire-resistant characteristics and how each lot will be sampled and tested to maintain its protective qualities. MSHA reserves the right to have its qualified representative(s) inspect the applicant's control-test equipment, procedures, and records, and to interview the personnel who conduct the control tests to satisfy MSHA that the proper procedure is being followed to insure that the fire-resistant qualities of the hydraulic fluid are maintained.

(g) When MSHA notifies the applicant that the application will be accepted, it will also notify him as to the number of samples and related materials that will be required for testing. Ordinarily a 5-gallon sample of hydraulic fluid will be required provided that it is a finished product or, if in concentrate form, enough shall be furnished to make a 5-gallon sample when mixed with water or other vehicle according to the applicant's instructions. All samples and related materials required for testing must be delivered (charges prepaid) to: U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059.
