
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Indian Lands Program
#### PART 750 - REQUIREMENTS FOR SURFACE COAL MINING AND RECLAMATION OPERATIONS ON INDIAN LANDS
##### ยง 750.12 Permit applications.
###### 1,2,3,4

(B) OSM shall determine if the application for revision is complete and if the proposed revision is significant. OSM shall consider the following factors as well as other relevant factors in determining the significance of a proposed revision: () Changes in production or recoverability of the coal resource; () the environmental effects; () the public interest in the operation, or likely interest in the proposed revision; and () possible adverse impacts from the proposed revision on fish or wildlife, endangered species, bald or golden eagles or cultural resources.

(C) Significant revisions shall be processed as if they are new applications in accordance with parts 773 and 775 of this chapter. Other revisions shall be reviewed to determine if the findings which were made in issuing the original permit are still valid.

(iii) Any section in this chapter which provides for consultation with, or notification to, State and local governments shall be interpreted as requiring in like manner consultation with, or notification to, tribal governments.

(d) The permit application package shall also contain:

(1) The mining plan required to be submitted by 25 CFR 216.7 or 43 CFR part 3480, as applicable.

(2) The following information to assure compliance with Federal laws other than the Act:

(i) The description of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation with respect to: (A) Increases in employment, population, and revenues to public and private entities; and (B) the ability of public and private entities to provide goods and services necessary to support surface coal mining and reclamation operations.

(ii) An evaluation of impacts to the scenic and aesthetic resources, including noise on the surrounding area, due to the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(iii) A statement, including maps and ownership data as appropriate, of any cultural or historical site listed on the National Register of Historic Places within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(iv) A statement of the classes of properties of potential significance within the disturbed area, and a plan for the identification and treatment, in accordance with 36 CFR part 800, of properties significant and listed, or eligible for listing, on the National Register of Historic Places within the permit area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(v) A description of compliance with Federal laws aimed at protecting cultural resources on Indian lands.

(vi) A description of the probable changes in air quality resulting from the surface coal mining operation and any necessary measures to comply with prevention of significant deterioration limitations, or other Federal laws for air quality protection.

(vii) A description of the location, acreage and condition of important habitats of selected indicator species located within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(viii) A description of active and inactive nests and prey areas of any bald or golden eagles located within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operations.

(ix) A description and special studies, if required, of all threatened and endangered species and their critical habitats located within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operations.
