
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter E - Indian Lands Program
#### PART 750 - REQUIREMENTS FOR SURFACE COAL MINING AND RECLAMATION OPERATIONS ON INDIAN LANDS
##### ยง 750.18 Inspection and enforcement.

(a) Parts 842, 843, 845 and 846 of this chapter and the hearings and appeals procedures of 43 CFR part 4 are applicable on Indian lands.

(b) OSM shall furnish copies of notices and orders to mineral owners or surface owners on whose land the surface coal mining operation takes place. OSM may furnish copies of notices and orders to any other person having an interest in the surface coal mining and reclamation operation or the permit area.

(c) BLM shall furnish copies of notices and orders to mineral owners or surface owners on whose land coal exploration operations take place and pursuant to 25 CFR 216.7 and 43 CFR part 3480, where applicable, to any mineral owner or surface owner, or to any person having an interest in the coal mining operation.

(d) Whenever an authorized representative of the Secretary decides to conduct an inspection of any coal mining operations or any premises in which any records to be maintained are located, the appropriate representative of the local governing Indian tribe shall be notified and be invited to accompany the Secretary's representative on such an inspection.

(e) No provision in this chapter shall be interpreted as replacing or superseding any other remedies of the Indian mineral owners, as set forth in a contract or otherwise available at law.

(f) Appropriate officials of the local governing Indian tribe shall be notified of any hearings or conferences conducted regarding civil penalties and shall be invited to attend.
