
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 35 - FIRE-RESISTANT HYDRAULIC FLUIDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 35.10 Approval labels or markings.

(a) A certificate of approval will be accompanied by a photograph of a design for an approval label or marking, which shall bear the emblem of the Mine Safety and Health Administration and shall be inscribed substantially as follows:

(b) A label so inscribed shall be attached to each fluid container in such a manner that it cannot be easily removed or containers may be so marked with a metal stencil. The letters and numbers shall be at leastinch in height and of a color which contrasts with that of the container.

(c) For a concentrate the label or marking shall clearly indicate that the certification thereof applies only when the concentrate is used in exact conformance with the instructions on such label or marking. The label or marking shall clearly indicate the exact amount of water or other vehicle to make the fire-resistant hydraulic fluid upon which the certificate of approval was based.

(d) Appropriate instructions and caution statements on the handling of the hydraulic fluid or concentrate shall be included on the approval label or marking.

(e) Use of MSHA's approval label or marking obligates the applicant to whom the certificate of approval was granted to maintain the fire-resistant characteristics of the hydraulic fluid and guarantees that it is manufactured according to the specifications upon which the certificate of approval was based. Use of the approval label or marking is not authorized except on containers of hydraulic fluids that conform strictly with the specifications and characteristics upon which the certificate of approval was based.
