
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Areas Unsuitable for Mining
#### PART 761 - AREAS DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS
##### § 761.10 Information collection.
###### et seq.,

(a) In accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3501the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements of this part. The OMB clearance number is 1029-0111. The regulatory authority or other responsible agency will use this information to determine whether a person has valid existing rights or qualifies for one of the other waivers or exemptions from the general prohibition on conducting surface coal mining operations in the areas listed in 30 U.S.C. 1272(e). Persons seeking to conduct surface coal mining operations on these lands must respond to obtain a benefit in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1272(e).

(b) We estimate that the public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this part will average 15 hours per response under § 761.13, 0.5 hour per response under § 761.14, 2 hours per response under § 761.15, 14 hours per response under § 761.16, 2 hours per response under § 761.17(c), and 2 hours per response under § 761.17(d), including time spent reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. The burden for § 761.16 includes 6 hours for the person seeking the determination and 8 hours for the agency processing the request. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of these information collection and recordkeeping requirements, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Information Collection Clearance Officer, 1951 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attention: Interior Desk Officer, 725 17th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20503. Please refer to OMB Control Number 1029-0111 in any correspondence.
