
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Areas Unsuitable for Mining
#### PART 761 - AREAS DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS
##### ยง 761.11 Areas where surface coal mining operations are prohibited or limited.
###### et seq.;,et seq.

(2) With respect to lands that do not have significant forest cover within national forests west of the 100th meridian, the Secretary of Agriculture has determined that surface mining is in compliance with the Act, the Multiple-Use Sustained Yield Act of 1960, 16 U.S.C. 528-531; the Federal Coal Leasing Amendments Act of 1975, 30 U.S.C. 181and the National Forest Management Act of 1976, 16 U.S.C. 1600This provision does not apply to the Custer National Forest.

(c) Any lands where the operation would adversely affect any publicly owned park or any place in the National Register of Historic Places. This prohibition does not apply if, as provided in ยง 761.17(d), the regulatory authority and the Federal, State, or local agency with jurisdiction over the park or place jointly approve the operation.

(d) Within 100 feet, measured horizontally, of the outside right-of-way line of any public road. This prohibition does not apply:

(1) Where a mine access or haul road joins a public road, or

(2) When, as provided in ยง 761.14, the regulatory authority (or the appropriate public road authority designated by the regulatory authority) allows the public road to be relocated or closed, or the area within the protected zone to be affected by the surface coal mining operation, after:

(i) Providing public notice and opportunity for a public hearing; and

(ii) Finding in writing that the interests of the affected public and landowners will be protected.

(e) Within 300 feet, measured horizontally, of any occupied dwelling. This prohibition does not apply when:

(1) The owner of the dwelling has provided a written waiver consenting to surface coal mining operations within the protected zone, as provided in ยง 761.15; or

(2) The part of the operation to be located closer than 300 feet to the dwelling is an access or haul road that connects with an existing public road on the side of the public road opposite the dwelling.

(f) Within 300 feet, measured horizontally, of any public building, school, church, community or institutional building, or public park.

(g) Within 100 feet, measured horizontally, of a cemetery. This prohibition does not apply if the cemetery is relocated in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
