
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Areas Unsuitable for Mining
#### PART 761 - AREAS DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS
##### ยง 761.16 Submission and processing of requests for valid existing rights determinations.
###### Requirements for property rights demonstration.

(1)You must provide a property rights demonstration under paragraph (a) of the definition of valid existing rights in ยง 761.5 if your request relies upon the good faith/all permits standard or the needed for and adjacent standard in paragraph (b) of the definition of valid existing rights in ยง 761.5. This demonstration must include the following items:

(i) A legal description of the land to which your request pertains.

(ii) Complete documentation of the character and extent of your current interests in the surface and mineral estates of the land to which your request pertains.

(iii) A complete chain of title for the surface and mineral estates of the land to which your request pertains.

(iv) A description of the nature and effect of each title instrument that forms the basis for your request, including any provision pertaining to the type or method of mining or mining-related surface disturbances and facilities.

(v) A description of the type and extent of surface coal mining operations that you claim the right to conduct, including the method of mining, any mining-related surface activities and facilities, and an explanation of how those operations would be consistent with State property law.

(vi) Complete documentation of the nature and ownership, as of the date that the land came under the protection of ยง 761.11 or 30 U.S.C. 1272(e), of all property rights for the surface and mineral estates of the land to which your request pertains.

(vii) Names and addresses of the current owners of the surface and mineral estates of the land to which your request pertains.

(viii) If the coal interests have been severed from other property interests, documentation that you have notified and provided reasonable opportunity for the owners of other property interests in the land to which your request pertains to comment on the validity of your property rights claims.

(ix) Any comments that you receive in response to the notification provided under paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section.
