
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Areas Unsuitable for Mining
#### PART 761 - AREAS DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS
##### § 761.16 Submission and processing of requests for valid existing rights determinations.
###### Notice and comment requirements and procedures.

(d)(1) When your request satisfies the completeness requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the agency must publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the land is located. This notice must invite comment on the merits of the request. Alternatively, the agency may require that you publish this notice and provide the agency with a copy of the published notice. We will publish a similar notice in theif your request involves Federal lands within an area listed in § 761.11(a) or (b). Each notice must include:

(i) The location of the land to which the request pertains.

(ii) A description of the type of surface coal mining operations planned.

(iii) A reference to and brief description of the applicable standard(s) under the definition of valid existing rights in § 761.5.

(A) If your request relies upon the good faith/all permits standard or the needed for and adjacent standard in paragraph (b) of the definition of valid existing rights in § 761.5, the notice also must include a description of the property rights that you claim and the basis for your claim.

(B) If your request relies upon the standard in paragraph (c)(1) of the definition of valid existing rights in § 761.5, the notice also must include a description of the basis for your claim that the road existed when the land came under the protection of § 761.11 or 30 U.S.C. 1272(e). In addition, the notice must include a description of the basis for your claim that you have a legal right to use that road for surface coal mining operations.

(C) If your request relies upon the standard in paragraph (c)(2) of the definition of valid existing rights in § 761.5, the notice also must include a description of the basis for your claim that a properly recorded right of way or easement for a road in that location existed when the land came under the protection of § 761.11 or 30 U.S.C. 1272(e). In addition, the notice must include a description of the basis for your claim that, under the document creating the right of way or easement, and under any subsequent conveyances, you have a legal right to use or construct a road across the right of way or easement to conduct surface coal mining operations.

(iv) If your request relies upon one or more of the standards in paragraphs (b), (c)(1), and (c)(2) of the definition of valid existing rights in § 761.5, a statement that the agency will not make a decision on the merits of your request if, by the close of the comment period under this notice or the notice required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section, a person with a legal interest in the land initiates appropriate legal action in the proper venue to resolve any differences concerning the validity or interpretation of the deed, lease, easement, or other documents that form the basis of your claim.

(v) A description of the procedures that the agency will follow in processing your request.

(vi) The closing date of the comment period, which must be a minimum of 30 days after the publication date of the notice.

(vii) A statement that interested persons may obtain a 30-day extension of the comment period upon request.

(viii) The name and address of the agency office where a copy of the request is available for public inspection and to which comments and requests for extension of the comment period should be sent.

(2) The agency must promptly provide a copy of the notice required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section to:

(i) All reasonably locatable owners of surface and mineral estates in the land included in your request.

(ii) The owner of the feature causing the land to come under the protection of § 761.11, and, when applicable, the agency with primary jurisdiction over the feature with respect to the values causing the land to come under the protection of § 761.11. For example, both the landowner and the State Historic Preservation Officer must be notified if surface coal mining operations would adversely impact any site listed on the National Register of Historic Places. As another example, both the surface owner and the National Park Service must be notified if the request includes non-Federal lands within the authorized boundaries of a unit of the National Park System.

(3) The letter transmitting the notice required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section must provide a 30-day comment period, starting from the date of service of the letter, and specify that another 30 days is available upon request. At its discretion, the agency responsible for the determination of valid existing rights may grant additional time for good cause upon request. The agency need not necessarily consider comments received after the closing date of the comment period.
