
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Areas Unsuitable for Mining
#### PART 761 - AREAS DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS
##### § 761.16 Submission and processing of requests for valid existing rights determinations.
###### Impact of property rights disagreements.

(3)This paragraph applies only when your request relies upon one or more of the standards in paragraphs (b), (c)(1), and (c)(2) of the definition of valid existing rights in § 761.5.

(i) The agency must issue a determination that you have not demonstrated valid existing rights if your property rights claims are the subject of pending litigation in a court or administrative body with jurisdiction over the property rights in question. The agency will make this determination without prejudice, meaning that you may refile the request once the property rights dispute is finally adjudicated. This paragraph applies only to situations in which legal action has been initiated as of the closing date of the comment period under paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(3) of this section.

(ii) If the record indicates disagreement as to the accuracy of your property rights claims, but this disagreement is not the subject of pending litigation in a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, the agency must evaluate the merits of the information in the record and determine whether you have demonstrated that the requisite property rights exist under paragraph (a), (c)(1), or (c)(2) of the definition of valid existing rights in § 761.5, as appropriate. The agency must then proceed with the decision process under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(4) The agency must issue a determination that you have not demonstrated valid existing rights if you do not submit information that the agency requests under paragraph (c)(2) or (e)(1) of this section within the time specified or as subsequently extended. The agency will make this determination without prejudice, meaning that you may refile a revised request at any time.

(5) After making a determination, the agency must:

(i) Provide a copy of the determination, together with an explanation of appeal rights and procedures, to you, to the owner or owners of the land to which the determination applies, to the owner of the feature causing the land to come under the protection of § 761.11, and, when applicable, to the agency with primary jurisdiction over the feature with respect to the values that caused the land to come under the protection of § 761.11.

(ii) Publish notice of the determination in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the land is located. Alternatively, the agency may require that you publish this notice and provide a copy of the published notice to the agency. We will publish the determination, together with an explanation of appeal rights and procedures, in theif your request includes Federal lands within an area listed in § 761.11(a) or (b).
