
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Areas Unsuitable for Mining
#### PART 761 - AREAS DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS
##### ยง 761.17 Regulatory authority obligations at time of permit application review.
###### Procedures for joint approval of surface coal mining operations that will adversely affect publicly owned parks or historic places.

(d)(1) If the regulatory authority determines that the proposed surface coal mining operation will adversely affect any publicly owned park or any place included in the National Register of Historic Places, the regulatory authority must request that the Federal, State, or local agency with jurisdiction over the park or place either approve or object to the proposed operation. The request must:

(i) Include a copy of applicable parts of the permit application.

(ii) Provide the agency with 30 days after receipt to respond, with a notice that another 30 days is available upon request.

(iii) State that failure to interpose an objection within the time specified under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section will constitute approval of the proposed operation.

(2) The regulatory authority may not issue a permit for a proposed operation subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless all affected agencies jointly approve.

(3) Paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section do not apply to:

(i) Lands for which a person has valid existing rights, as determined under ยง 761.16.

(ii) Lands within the scope of the exception for existing operations in ยง 761.12.
