
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter F - Areas Unsuitable for Mining
#### PART 764 - STATE PROCESSES FOR DESIGNATING AREAS UNSUITABLE FOR SURFACE COAL MINING OPERATIONS
##### § 764.15 Initial processing, recordkeeping, and notification requirements.

(a)(1) Within 30 days of receipt of a petition, the regulatory authority shall notify the petitioner by certified mail whether the petition is complete under § 764.13 (b) or (c). Complete, for a designation or termination petition, means that the information required under § 764.13 (b) or (c) has been provided.

(2) The regulatory authority shall determine whether any identified coal resources exist in the area covered by the petition, without requiring any showing from the petitioner. If the regulatory authority finds there are not any identified coal resources in that area, it shall return the petition to the petitioner with a statement of the findings.

(3) If the regulatory authority determines that the petition is incomplete, frivolous, or that the petitioner does not meet the requirements of § 764.13(a), it shall return the petition to the petitioner with a written statement of the reasons for the determination and the categories of information needed to make the petition complete. A frivolous petition is one in which the allegations of harm lack serious merit.

(4) When considering a petition for an area which was previously and unsuccessfully proposed for designation, the regulatory authority shall determine if the new petition presents significant new allegations of facts with evidence which tends to establish the allegations. If the petition does not contain such material, the regulatory authority may choose not to consider the petition and may return the petition to the petitioner, with a statement of its findings and a reference to the record of the previous designation proceedings where the facts were considered.

(5) The regulatory authority shall notify the person who submits a petition of any application for a permit received which includes any area covered by the petition.

(6) The regulatory authority may determine not to process any petition received insofar as it pertains to lands for which an administratively complete permit application has been filed and the first newspaper notice has been published. Based on such a determination, the regulatory authority may issue a decision on a complete and accurate permit application and shall inform the petitioner why the regulatory authority cannot consider the part of the petition pertaining to the proposed permit area.

(b)(1) Promptly after a petition is received, the regulatory authority shall notify the general public of the receipt of the petition by a newspaper advertisement placed in the locale of the area covered by the petition, in the newspaper providing broadest circulation in the region of the petitioned area and in any official State register of public notices. The regulatory authority shall make copies of the petition available to the public and shall provide copies of the petition to other interested governmental agencies, intervenors, persons with an ownership interest of record in the property, and other persons known to the regulatory authority to have an interest in the property. Proper notice to persons with an ownership interest of record in the property shall comply with the requirements of applicable State law.

(2) Promptly after the determination that a petition is complete, the regulatory authority shall request submissions from the general public of relevant information by a newspaper advertisement placed once a week for two consecutive weeks in the locale of the area covered by the petition, in the newspaper providing broadest circulation in the region of the petitioned area, and in any official State register of public notices.

(c) Until three days before the regulatory authority holds a hearing under § 764.17, any person may intervene in the proceeding by filing allegations of facts describing how the designation determination directly affects the intervenor, supporting evidence, a short statement identifying the petition to which the allegations pertain, and the intervenor's name, address and telephone number.

(d) Beginning from the date a petition is filed, the regulatory authority shall compile and maintain a record consisting of all documents relating to the petition filed with or prepared by the regulatory authority. The regulatory authority shall make the record available to the public for inspection free of charge and for copying at reasonable cost during all normal hours at the main office of the regulatory authority. The regulatory authority shall also maintain information at or near the area in which the petitioned land is located and make this information available to the public for inspection free of charge and for copying at reasonable cost during all normal business hours. At a minimum, this information shall include a copy of the petition.
