
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 772 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COAL EXPLORATION
##### § 772.10 Information collection.
###### et seq.,

(a) In accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3501the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection and recordkeeping requirements of this part. The OMB clearance number is 1029-0112. OSM and State regulatory authorities use the information collected under this part to maintain knowledge of coal exploration activities, evaluate the need for an exploration permit, and ensure that exploration activities comply with the environmental protection, public participation, and reclamation requirements of parts 772 and 815 of this chapter and 30 U.S.C. 1262. Persons seeking to conduct coal exploration must respond to obtain a benefit.

(b) OSM estimates that the combined public reporting and recordkeeping burden for all respondents under this part will average 11 hours per notice or application submitted, including time spent reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Specifically, OSM estimates that preparation of a notice of intent to explore under § 772.11 will require an average of 10 hours per notice, preparation and processing of an application for coal exploration under § 772.12 will require an average of 103 hours per application, compliance with § 772.14 will require an average of 18 hours per application, and recordkeeping and information collection under § 772.15 will require an average of approximately 1 hour per response. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of these information collection requirements, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Information Collection Clearance Officer, 1951 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attention: Interior Desk Officer, 725 17th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20503. Please refer to OMB Control Number 1029-0112 in any correspondence.
