
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 772 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COAL EXPLORATION
##### ยง 772.12 Permit requirements for exploration that will remove more than 250 tons of coal or that will occur on lands designated as unsuitable for surface coal mining operations.
###### Application information.

(b)Each application for an exploration permit shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:

(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.

(2) The name, address and telephone number of the applicant's representative who will be present at, and responsible for, conducting the exploration activities.

(3) A narrative describing the proposed exploration area.

(4) A narrative description of the methods and equipment to be used to conduct the exploration and reclamation.

(5) An estimated timetable for conducting and completing each phase of the exploration and reclamation.

(6) The estimated amount of coal to be removed and a description of the methods to be used to determine the amount.

(7) A statement of why extraction of more than 250 tons of coal is necessary for exploration.

(8) A description of-

(i) Cultural or historical resources listed on the National Register of Historic Places;

(ii) Cultural or historical resources known to be eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places; and

(iii) Known archeological resources located within the proposed exploration area.

(iv) Any other information which the regulatory authority may require regarding known or unknown historic or archeological resources.
