
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 35 - FIRE-RESISTANT HYDRAULIC FLUIDS
##### Subpart B - Test Requirements
###### ยง 35.20 Autogenous-ignition temperature test.
####### Observations.

(3)(i) If flame does not result in 5 minutes or more after injection of the test sample, the sample shall be considered nonflammable at the test temperature, and the timer shall be stopped. The test flask shall then be flushed well with clean dry air and, after a lapse of 15 minutes or more, the test shall be repeated with the test flask temperature raised 50 &#xB0;F. +/-2 &#xB0;F. above the first test temperature.

(ii) If ignition (flame) is observed in 5 minutes or less after the injection of the test sample (0.07 cc.), the time lag (time interval) shall be noted. After an ignition occurs the temperature of the test flask shall be reduced 5 &#xB0;F., and the test procedure repeated in decrements of 5 &#xB0;F. until ignition no longer occurs and this temperature shall be noted as the first nonignition test temperature for the 0.07 cc. sample.

(iii) The temperature shall be increased 50 &#xB0;F. +/-2 &#xB0;F. above the first nonignition test temperature, and the ignition-temperature test procedure shall be repeated with a 0.10 cc. test sample injected into the heated test flask.

(iv) If the lowest temperature at which ignition occurs with the 0.10 cc. sample (in decrements of 5 &#xB0;F.) is lower than that obtained with the 0.07 cc. sample, the ignition-temperature test procedure shall be repeated using a test sample of 0.12 cc., then 0.15 cc., and so on by increments of 0.03 cc. until the lowest ignition temperature is obtained.

(v) If the lowest temperature at which ignition is obtained with the 0.10 cc. sample is greater than that obtained with the 0.07 cc. sample, the ignition temperature test procedure shall be repeated by reducing the test sample to 0.05 cc. and then to 0.03 cc. until the lowest ignition temperature is obtained.
