
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 773 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS AND PERMIT PROCESSING
##### § 773.6 Public participation in permit processing.
###### Filing and public notice.

(a)(1) Upon submission of an administratively complete application, an applicant for a permit, significant revision of a permit under § 774.13, or renewal of a permit under § 774.15, shall place an advertisement in a local newspaper of general circulation in the locality of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation at least once a week for four consecutive weeks. A copy of the advertisement as it will appear in the newspaper shall be submitted to the regulatory authority. The advertisement shall contain, at a minimum, the following:

(i) The name and business address of the applicant.

(ii) A map or description which clearly shows or describes the precise location and boundaries of the proposed permit area and is sufficient to enable local residents to readily identify the proposed permit area. It may include towns, bodies of water, local landmarks, and any other information which would identify the location. If a map is used, it shall indicate the north direction.

(iii) The location where a copy of the application is available for public inspection.

(iv) The name and address of the regulatory authority where written comments, objections, or requests for informal conferences on the application may be submitted under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(v) If an applicant seeks a permit to mine within 100 feet of the outside right-of-way of a public road or to relocate or close a public road, except where public notice and hearing have previously been provided for this particular part of the road in accordance with § 761.14 of this chapter; a concise statement describing the public road, the particular part to be relocated or closed, and the approximate timing and duration of the relocation or closing.

(vi) If the application includes a request for an experimental practice under § 785.13, a statement indicating that an experimental practice is requested and identifying the regulatory provisions for which a variance is requested.

(2) The applicant shall make an application for a permit, significant revision under § 774.13, or renewal of a permit under § 774.15 available for the public to inspect and copy by filing a full copy of the application with the recorder at the courthouse of the county where the mining is proposed to occur, or an accessible public office approved by the regulatory authority. This copy of the application need not include confidential information exempt from disclosure under paragraph (d) of this section. The application required by this paragraph shall be filed by the first date of newspaper advertisement of the application. The applicant shall file any changes to the application with the public office at the same time the change is submitted to the regulatory authority.

(3) Upon receipt of an administratively complete application for a permit, a significant revision to a permit under § 774.13, or a renewal of a permit under § 774.15, the regulatory authority shall issue written notification indicating the applicant's intention to mine the described tract of land, the application number or other identifier, the location where the copy of the application may be inspected, and the location where comments on the application may be submitted. The notification shall be sent to-

(i) Local governmental agencies with jurisdiction over or an interest in the area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation, including but not limited to planning agencies, sewage and water treatment authorities, water companies; and

(ii) All Federal or State governmental agencies with authority to issue permits and licenses applicable to the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation and which are part of the permit coordinating process developed in accordance with section 503(a)(6) or section 504(h) of the Act, or § 773.5; or those agencies with an interest in the proposed operation, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service district office, the local U.S. Army Corps of Engineers district engineer, the National Park Service, State and Federal fish and wildlife agencies, and the historic preservation officer.
