
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 773 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS AND PERMIT PROCESSING
##### ยง 773.6 Public participation in permit processing.
###### Informal conferences.

(c)(1) Any person having an interest which is or may be adversely affected by the decision on the application, or an officer or a head of a Federal, State, or local government agency, may request in writing that the regulatory authority hold an informal conference on the application for a permit, significant revision to a permit under ยง 774.13, or renewal of a permit under ยง 774.15. The request shall-

(i) Briefly summarize the issues to be raised by the requestor at the conference;

(ii) State whether the requestor desires to have the conference conducted in the locality of the proposed operation; and

(iii) Be filed with the regulatory authority no later than 30 days after the last publication of the newspaper advertisement required under paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if an informal conference is requested in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the regulatory authority shall hold an informal conference within a reasonable time following the receipt of the request. The informal conference shall be conducted as follows:

(i) If requested under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, it shall be held in the locality of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.

(ii) The date, time, and location of the informal conference shall be sent to the applicant and other parties to the conference and advertised by the regulatory authority in a newspaper of general circulation in the locality of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation at least 2 weeks before the scheduled conference.

(iii) If requested in writing by a conference requestor at a reasonable time before the conference, the regulatory authority may arrange with the applicant to grant parties to the conference access to the proposed permit area and, to the extent that the applicant has the right to grant access to it, to the adjacent area prior to the established date of the conference for the purpose of gathering information relevant to the conference.

(iv) The requirements of section 5 of the Administrative Procedure Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 554), shall not apply to the conduct of the informal conference. The conference shall be conducted by a representative of the regulatory authority, who may accept oral or written statements and any other relevant information from any party to the conference. An electronic or stenographic record shall be made of the conference, unless waived by all the parties. The record shall be maintained and shall be accessible to the parties of the conference until final release of the applicant's performance bond or other equivalent guarantee pursuant to subchapter J of this chapter.

(3) If all parties requesting the informal conference withdraw their request before the conference is held, the informal conference may be canceled.

(4) Informal conferences held in accordance with this section may be used by the regulatory authority as the public hearing required under ยง 761.14(c) of this chapter on proposed relocation or closing of public roads.
