
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 773 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS AND PERMIT PROCESSING
##### § 773.15 Written findings for permit application approval.

No permit application or application for a significant revision of a permit shall be approved unless the application affirmatively demonstrates and the regulatory authority finds, in writing, on the basis of information set forth in the application or from information otherwise available that is documented in the approval, the following:

(a) The application is accurate and complete and the applicant has complied with all requirements of the Act and the regulatory program.

(b) The applicant has demonstrated that reclamation as required by the Act and the regulatory program can be accomplished under the reclamation plan contained in the permit application.

(c) The proposed permit area is-

(1) Not within an area under study or administrative proceedings under a petition, filed pursuant to parts 764 and 769 of this chapter, to have an area designated as unsuitable for surface coal mining operations, unless the applicant demonstrates that before January 4, 1977, he has made substantial legal and financial commitments in relation to the operation covered by the permit application; or

(2) Not within an area designated as unsuitable for surface coal mining operations under parts 762 and 764 or 769 of this chapter or within an area subject to the prohibitions of § 761.11 of this chapter.

(d) For mining operations where the private mineral estate to be mined has been severed from the private surface estate, the applicant has submitted to the regulatory authority the documentation required under § 778.15(b) of this chapter.

(e) The regulatory authority has made an assessment of the probable cumulative impacts of all anticipated coal mining on the hydrologic balance in the cumulative impact area and has determined that the proposed operation has been designed to prevent material damage to the hydrologic balance outside the permit area.

(f) The applicant has demonstrated that any existing structure will comply with § 701.11(d), and the applicable performance standards of subchapter B or K of this chapter.

(g) The applicant has paid all reclamation fees from previous and existing operations as required by subchapter R of this chapter.

(h) The applicant has satisfied the applicable requirements of part 785 of this chapter.

(i) The applicant has, if applicable, satisfied the requirements for approval of a long-term, intensive agricultural postmining land use, in accordance with the requirements of § 816.111(d) or § 817.111(d).
