
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 773 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS AND PERMIT PROCESSING
##### § 773.22 Notice requirements for improvidently issued permits.

(a) We, the regulatory authority, must serve you, the permittee, with a written notice of proposed suspension or rescission, together with a statement of the reasons for the proposed suspension or rescission, if-

(1) After considering any evidence submitted under § 773.21(d) of this part, we find that a permit was improvidently issued under the criteria in § 773.21 paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 773.21 of this part; or

(2) Your permit was provisionally issued under § 773.14(b) of this part and one or more of the conditions in §§ 773.14(c)(1) through (4) exists.

(b) If we propose to suspend your permit, we will provide 60 days notice.

(c) If we propose to rescind your permit, we will provide 120 days notice.

(d) If you wish to appeal the notice, you must exhaust administrative remedies under the procedures at 43 CFR 4.1370 through 4.1377 (when OSM is the regulatory authority) or under the State regulatory program equivalent (when a State is the regulatory authority).

(e) After we serve you with a notice of proposed suspension or rescission under this section, we will take action under § 773.23 of this part.

(f) The regulations for service at § 843.14 of this chapter, or the State regulatory program equivalent, will govern service under this section.

(g) The times specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section will apply unless you obtain temporary relief under the procedures at 43 CFR 4.1376 or the State regulatory program equivalent.
