
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 773 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS AND PERMIT PROCESSING
##### § 773.26 How to challenge an ownership or control listing or finding.

This section applies to you if you challenge an ownership or control listing or finding.

(a) To challenge an ownership or control listing or finding, you must submit a written explanation of the basis for the challenge, along with any evidence or explanatory materials you wish to provide under § 773.27(b) of this part, to the regulatory authority, as identified in the following table.

(b) The provisions of this section and of §§ 773.27 and 773.28 of this part apply only to challenges to ownership or control listings or findings. You may not use these provisions to challenge your liability or responsibility under any other provision of the Act or its implementing regulations.

(c) When the challenge concerns a violation under the jurisdiction of a different regulatory authority, the regulatory authority with jurisdiction over the permit application or permit must consult the regulatory authority with jurisdiction over the violation and the AVS Office to obtain additional information.

(d) A regulatory authority responsible for deciding a challenge under paragraph (a) of this section may request an investigation by the AVS Office.

(e) At any time, you, a person listed in AVS as an owner or controller of a surface coal mining operation, may request an informal explanation from the AVS Office as to the reason you are shown in AVS in an ownership or control capacity. Within 14 days of your request, the AVS Office will provide a response describing why you are listed in AVS.
