
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 773 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS AND PERMIT PROCESSING
##### ยง 773.28 Written agency decision on challenges to ownership or control listings or findings.

(a) Within 60 days of receipt of your challenge under ยง 773.26(a) of this part, we, the regulatory authority identified under ยง 773.26(a) of this part, will review and investigate the evidence and explanatory materials you submit and any other reasonably available information bearing on your challenge and issue a written decision. Our decision must state whether you own or control the relevant surface coal mining operation, or owned or controlled the operation, during the relevant time period.

(b) We will promptly provide you with a copy of our decision by either-

(1) Certified mail, return receipt requested; or

(2) Any means consistent with the rules governing service of a summons and complaint under Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, or its State regulatory program counterparts.

(c) Service of the decision on you is complete upon delivery and is not incomplete if you refuse to accept delivery.

(d) We will post all decisions made under this section on AVS.

(e) Any person who receives a written decision under this section, and who wishes to appeal that decision, must exhaust administrative remedies under the procedures at 43 CFR 4.1380 through 4.1387 or, when a State is the regulatory authority, the State regulatory program counterparts, before seeking judicial review.

(f) Following our written decision or any decision by a reviewing administrative or judicial tribunal, we must review the information in AVS to determine if it is consistent with the decision. If it is not, we must promptly revise the information in AVS to reflect the decision.
