
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 778 - PERMIT APPLICATIONS - MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, COMPLIANCE, AND RELATED INFORMATION
##### ยง 778.11 Providing applicant and operator information.

(a) You, the applicant, must provide in the permit application-

(1) A statement indicating whether you and your operator are corporations, partnerships, associations, sole proprietorships, or other business entities;

(2) Taxpayer identification numbers for you and your operator.

(b) You must provide the name, address, and telephone number for-

(1) The applicant.

(2) Your resident agent who will accept service of process.

(3) Any operator, if different from the applicant.

(4) Each business entity in the applicant's and operator's organizational structure, up to and including the ultimate parent entity of the applicant and operator; for every such business entity, you must also provide the required information for every president, chief executive officer, and director (or persons in similar positions), and every person who owns, of record, 10 percent or more of the entity.

(c) For you and your operator, you must provide the information required by paragraph (d) of this section for every-

(1) Officer.

(2) Partner.

(3) Member.

(4) Director.

(5) Person performing a function similar to a director.

(6) Person who owns, of record, 10 percent or more of the applicant or operator.

(d) You must provide the following information for each person listed in paragraph (c) of this section-

(1) The person's name, address, and telephone number.

(2) The person's position title and relationship to you, including percentage of ownership and location in the organizational structure.

(3) The date the person began functioning in that position.

(e) We need not make a finding as provided for under ยง 774.11(g) of this subchapter before entering into AVS the information required to be disclosed under this section; however, the mere listing in AVS of a person identified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section does not create a presumption or constitute a determination that such person owns or controls a surface coal mining operation.
