
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 778 - PERMIT APPLICATIONS - MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, COMPLIANCE, AND RELATED INFORMATION
##### ยง 778.14 Providing violation information.

(a) You, the applicant, must state, in your permit application, whether you, your operator, or any subsidiary, affiliate, or entity which you or your operator own or control or which is under common control with you or your operator, has-

(1) Had a Federal or State permit for surface coal mining operations suspended or revoked during the five-year period preceding the date of submission of the application; or

(2) Forfeited a performance bond or similar security deposited in lieu of bond in connection with surface coal mining and reclamation operations during the five-year period preceding the date of submission of the application.

(b) For each suspension, revocation, or forfeiture identified under paragraph (a), you must provide a brief explanation of the facts involved, including the-

(1) Permit number.

(2) Date of suspension, revocation, or forfeiture, and, when applicable, the amount of bond or similar security forfeited.

(3) Regulatory authority that suspended or revoked the permit or forfeited the bond and the stated reasons for the action.

(4) Current status of the permit, bond, or similar security involved.

(5) Date, location, type, and current status of any administrative or judicial proceedings concerning the suspension, revocation, or forfeiture.

(c) A list of all violation notices you or your operator received for any surface coal mining and reclamation operation during the three-year period preceding the date of submission of the application. In addition you must submit a list of all unabated or uncorrected violation notices incurred in connection with any surface coal mining and reclamation operation that you or your operator own or control on that date. For each violation notice reported, you must include the following information, when applicable-

(1) The permit number and associated MSHA number.

(2) The issue date, identification number, and current status of the violation notice.

(3) The name of the person to whom the violation notice was issued,

(4) The name of the regulatory authority or agency that issued the violation notice.

(5) A brief description of the violation alleged in the notice.

(6) The date, location, type, and current status of any administrative or judicial proceedings concerning the violation notice.

(7) If the abatement period for a violation in a notice of violation issued under ยง 843.12 of this chapter, or its State regulatory program equivalent, has not expired, certification that the violation is being abated or corrected to the satisfaction of the agency with jurisdiction over the violation.

(8) For all violations not covered by paragraph (c)(7) of this section, the actions taken to abate or correct the violation.
