
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 780 - SURFACE MINING PERMIT APPLICATIONS - MINIMUM REQUIREMENT FOR RECLAMATION AND OPERATION PLAN
##### ยง 780.10 Information collection.
###### et seq.

(a) The collections of information contained in part 780 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501and assigned clearance number 1029-0036. The information will be used by the regulatory authority to determine whether the applicant can comply with the applicable performance and environmental standards in Public Law 95-87. Response is required to obtain a benefit.

(b) Public Reporting burden for this information is estimated to average 28 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 1951 Constitution Ave. NW., Room 203, Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project 1029-0036, Washington, DC 20503.
