
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 780 - SURFACE MINING PERMIT APPLICATIONS - MINIMUM REQUIREMENT FOR RECLAMATION AND OPERATION PLAN
##### ยง 780.21 Hydrologic information.
###### Surface-water monitoring plan.

(j)(1) The application shall include a surface-water monitoring plan based upon the PHC determination required under paragraph (f) of this section and the analysis of all baseline hydrologic, geologic, and other information in the permit application. The plan shall provide for the monitoring of parameters that relate to the suitability of the surface water for current and approved postmined land uses and to the objectives for protection of the hydrologic balance as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section as well as the effluent limitations found at 40 CFR part 434.

(2) The plan shall identify the surface-water quantity and quality parameters to be monitored, sampling frequency and site locations. It shall describe how the data may be used to determine the impacts of the operation upon the hydrologic balance.

(i) At all monitoring locations in the surface-water bodies such as streams, lakes, and impoundments, that are potentially impacted or into which water will be discharged and at upstream monitoring locations the total dissolved solids or specific conductance corrected to 25 &#xB0;C, total suspended solids, pH, total iron, total manganese, and flow shall be monitored.

(ii) For point-source discharges, monitoring shall be conducted in accordance with 40 CFR parts 122, 123 and 434 and as required by the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permitting authority.

(3) The monitoring reports shall be submitted to the regulatory authority every 3 months. The regulatory authority may require additional monitoring.
