
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 780 - SURFACE MINING PERMIT APPLICATIONS - MINIMUM REQUIREMENT FOR RECLAMATION AND OPERATION PLAN
##### § 780.25 Reclamation plan: Siltation structures, impoundments, banks, dams, and embankments.
###### http://www.osmre.gov/programs/TDT/damsafety.shtm.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) Impoundments meeting the Class B or C criteria for dams in the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service Technical Release No. 60 (210-VI-TR60, Oct. 1985), "Earth Dams and Reservoirs," Technical Release No. 60 (TR-60) shall comply with the requirements of this section for structures that meet or exceed the size of other criteria of the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). The technical release is hereby incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. TR-60 may be viewed and downloaded from OSM's Web site atIt also is available for inspection at the OSM Headquarters Office, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Administrative Record, Room 252, 1951 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Each detailed design plan for a structure that meets or exceeds the size or other criteria of MSHA, § 77.216(a) of this chapter shall:

(i) Be prepared by, or under the direction of, and certified by a qualified registered professional engineer with assistance from experts in related fields such as geology, land surveying, and landscape architecture;

(ii) Include any geotechnical investigation, design, and construction requirements for the structure;

(iii) Describe the operation and maintenance requirements for each structure; and

(iv) Describe the timetable and plans to remove each structure, if appropriate.

(3) Each detailed design plan for structures not included in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall:

(i) Be prepared by, or under the direction of, and certified by a qualified, registered, professional engineer, or in any State which authorizes land surveyors to prepare and certify such plans, a qualified, registered, professional land surveyor, except that all coal processing waste dams and embankments covered by §§ 816.81-816.84 of this chapter shall be certified by a qualified, registered, professional engineer;

(ii) Include any design and construction requirements for the structure, including any required geotechnical information;

(iii) Describe the operation and maintenance requirements for each structure; and

(iv) Describe the timetable and plans to remove each structure, if appropriate.
