
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 784 - UNDERGROUND MINING PERMIT APPLICATIONS - MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR RECLAMATION AND OPERATION PLAN
##### ยง 784.16 Reclamation plan: Siltation structures, impoundments, banks, dams, and embankments.
###### Coal processing waste dams and embankments.

(e)Coal processing waste dams and embankments shall be designed to comply with the requirements of 30 CFR 817.81 through 817.84. Each plan shall comply with the requirements of the Mine Safety and Health Administration, 30 CFR 77.216-1 and 77.216-2, and shall contain the results of a geotechnical investigation of the proposed dam or embankment foundation area, to determine the structural competence of the foundation which will support the proposed dam or embankment structure and the impounded material. The geotechnical investigation shall be planned and supervised by an engineer or engineering geologist, according to the following:

(1) The number, location, and depth of borings and test pits shall be determined using current prudent engineering practice for the size of the dam or embankment, quantity of material to be impounded, and subsurface conditions.

(2) The character of the overburden and bedrock, the proposed abutment sites, and any adverse geotechnical conditions which may affect the particular dam, embankment, or reservoir site shall be considered.

(3) All springs, seepage, and ground water flow observed or anticipated during wet periods in the area of the proposed dam or embankment shall be identified on each plan.

(4) Consideration shall be given to the possibility of mudflows, rock-debris falls, or other landslides into the dam, embankment, or impounded material.

(f) If the structure meets the Class B or C criteria for dams in TR-60 or meets the size or other criteria of ยง 77.216(a) of this chapter, each plan under paragraphs (b), (c), and (e) of this section shall include a stability analysis of the structure. The stability analysis shall include, but not be limited to, strength parameters, pore pressures, and long-term seepage conditions. The plan shall also contain a description of each engineering design assumption and calculation with a discussion of each alternative considered in selecting the specific design parameters and construction methods.
