
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 785 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS FOR SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF MINING
##### ยง 785.17 Prime farmland.
###### Application contents-Reconnaissance inspection.

(b)(1) All permit applications, whether or not prime farmland is present, shall include the results of a reconnaissance inspection of the proposed permit area to indicate whether prime farmland exists. The regulatory authority in consultation with the U.S. Soil Conservation Service shall determine the nature and extent of the required reconnaissance inspection.

(2) If the reconnaissance inspection establishes that no land within the proposed permit area is prime farmland historically used for cropland, the applicant shall submit a statement that no prime farmland is present. The statement shall identify the basis upon which such a conclusion was reached.

(3) If the reconnaissance inspection indicates that land within the proposed permit area may be prime farmland historically used for cropland, the applicant shall determine if a soil survey exists for those lands and whether soil mapping units in the permit area have been designated as prime farmland. If no soil survey exists, the applicant shall have a soil survey made of the lands within the permit area which the reconnaissance inspection indicates could be prime farmland. Soil surveys of the detail used by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service for operational conservation planning shall be used to identify and locate prime farmland soils.

(i) If the soil survey indicates that no prime farmland soils are present within the proposed permit area, paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall apply.

(ii) If the soil survey indicates that prime farmland soils are present within the proposed permit area, paragraph (c) of this section shall apply.
