
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 785 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS FOR SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF MINING
##### ยง 785.19 Surface coal mining and reclamation operations on areas or adjacent to areas including alluvial valley floors in the arid and semiarid areas west of the 100th meridian.
###### Alluvial valley floor determination.

(a)(1) Permit applicants who propose to conduct surface coal mining and reclamation operations within a valley holding a stream or in a location where the permit area or adjacent area includes any stream, in the arid and semiarid regions of the United States, as an initial step in the permit process, may request the regulatory authority to make an alluvial valley floor determination with respect to that valley floor. The applicant shall demonstrate and the regulatory authority shall determine, based on either available data or field studies submitted by the applicant, or a combination of available data and field studies, the presence or absence of an alluvial valley floor. Studies shall include sufficiently detailed geologic, hydrologic, land use, soils, and vegetation data and analysis to demonstrate the probable existence of an alluvial valley floor in the area. The regulatory authority may require additional data collection and analysis or other supporting documents, maps, and illustrations in order to make the determination.

(2) The regulatory authority shall make a written determination as to the extent of any alluvial valley floors within the area. The regulatory authority shall determine that an alluvial valley floor exists if it finds that-

(i) Unconsolidated streamlaid deposits holding streams are present; and

(ii) There is sufficient water available to support agricultural activities as evidenced by-

(A) The existence of current flood irrigation in the area in question;

(B) The capability of an area to be flood irrigated, based on evaluations of typical regional agricultural practices, historical flood irrigation, streamflow, water quality, soils, and topography; or

(C) Subirrigation of the lands in question derived from the ground-water system of the valley floor.

(3) If the regulatory authority determines in writing that an alluvial valley does not exist pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no further consideration of this section is required.
