
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter G - Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Permits and Coal Exploration Systems Under Regulatory Programs
#### PART 785 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS FOR SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF MINING
##### ยง 785.21 Coal preparation plants not located within the permit area of a mine.

(a) This section applies to any person who operates or intends to operate a coal preparation plant in connection with a coal mine but outside the permit area for a specific mine. Any person who operates such a preparation plant shall obtain a permit from the regulatory authority in accordance with the requirements of this section

(b) Any application for a permit for operations covered by this section shall contain an operation and reclamation plan which specifies plans, including descriptions, maps, and cross sections, of the construction, operation, maintenance, and removal of the preparation plant and support facilities operated incident thereto or resulting therefrom. The plan shall demonstrate that those operations will be conducted in compliance with part 827 of this chapter.

(c) No permit shall be issued for any operation covered by this section, unless the regulatory authority finds in writing that, in addition to meeting all other applicable requirements of this subchapter, the operations will be conducted in compliance with the requirements of part 827 of this chapter.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, any person who operates a coal preparation plant beyond May 10, 1986, that was not subject to this chapter before July 6, 1984, shall have applied for a permit no later than November 11, 1985.

(2)(i) State programs that have a statutory or regulatory bar precluding issuance of permits to facilities covered by paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall notify OSMRE not later than November 7, 1985, and shall establish a schedule for actions necessary to allow the permitting of such facilities as soon as practicable. Not later than December 9, 1985, this schedule shall be submitted to OSMRE for approval.

(ii) Any person who operates a coal preparation plant that was not subject to this chapter before July 6, 1984, in a state which submits a schedule in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section shall apply for a permit in accordance with the schedule approved by OSMRE.

(e) Notwithstanding ยง 773.4 of this chapter and except as prohibited by ยง 761.11 of this chapter, any person operating a coal preparation plant that was not subject to this chapter before July 6, 1984, may continue to operate without a permit until May 10, 1986, and may continue to operate beyond that date if:

(1) A permit application has been timely filed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section or under a State imposed schedule specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section,

(2) The regulatory authority has yet to either issue or deny the permit, and

(3) The person complies with the applicable performance standards of ยง 827.13 of this chapter.
