
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter J - Performance Bond, Financial Assurance, and Insurance Requirements for Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations
#### PART 800 - BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR SURFACE COAL MINING AND RECLAMATION OPERATIONS UNDER REGULATORY PROGRAMS
##### § 800.13 Period of liability.

(a)(1) Performance bond liability shall be for the duration of the surface coal mining and reclamation operation and for a period which is coincident with the operator's period of extended responsibility for successful revegetation provided in § 816.116 or § 817.116 of this chapter or until achievement of the reclamation requirements of the Act, regulatory programs, and permit, whichever is later.

(2) With the approval of regulatory authority, a bond may be posted and approved to guarantee specific phases of reclamation within the permit area provided the sum of phase bonds posted equals or exceeds the total amount required under §§ 800.14 and 800.15. The scope of work to be guaranteed and the liability assumed under each phase bond shall be specified in detail.

(b) Isolated and clearly defined portions of the permit area requiring extended liability may be separated from the original area and bonded separately with the approval of the regulatory authority. Such areas shall be limited in extent and not constitute a scattered, intermittent, or checkerboard pattern of failure. Access to the separated areas for remedial work may be included in the area under extended liability if deemed necessary by the regulatory authority.

(c) If the regulatory authority approves a long-term, intensive agricultural postmining land use, in accordance with § 816.133 or § 817.133 of this chapter, the applicable 5 or 10 year period of liability shall commence at the date of initial planting for such long-term agricultural use.

(d)(1) The bond liability of the permittee shall include only those actions which he or she is obligated to take under the permit, including completion of the reclamation plan, so that the land will be capable of supporting the postmining land use approved under § 816.133 or § 817.133 of this chapter.

(2) Implementation of an alternative postmining land use approved under §§ 816.133(c) and 817.133(c) which is beyond the control of the permittee, need not be covered by the bond. Bond liability for prime farmland shall be as specified in § 800.40(c)(2).
