
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter J - Performance Bond, Financial Assurance, and Insurance Requirements for Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations
#### PART 800 - BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR SURFACE COAL MINING AND RECLAMATION OPERATIONS UNDER REGULATORY PROGRAMS
##### ยง 800.17 Bonding requirements for underground coal mines and long-term coal-related surface facilities and structures.
###### Long-term period of liability.

(b)(1) The period of liability for every bond covering long-term surface disturbances shall commence with the issuance of a permit, except that to the extent that such disturbances will occur on a succeeding increment to be bonded, such liability will commence upon the posting of the bond for that increment before the initial surface disturbance of that increment. The liability period shall extend until all reclamation, restoration, and abatement work under the permit has been completed and the bond is released under the provisions of ยง 800.40, or until the bond has been replaced or extended in accordance with ยง 800.17(b)(3).

(2) Long-term surface disturbances shall include long-term coal-related surface facilities and structures, and surface impacts incident to underground coal mining, which disturb an area for a period that exceeds 5 years. Long-term surface disturbances include, but are not limited to: surface features of shafts and slope facilities, coal refuse areas, powerlines, bore-holes, ventilation shafts, preparation plants, machine shops, roads, and loading and treatment facilities.

(3) To achieve continuous bond coverage for long-term surface disturbances, the bond shall be conditioned upon extension, replacement, or payment in full, 30 days prior to the expiration of the bond term.

(4) Continuous bond coverage shall apply throughout the period of extended responsibility for successful revegetation and until the provisions of ยง 800.40 have been met.
