
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 36 - APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMISSIBLE MOBILE DIESEL-POWERED TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 36.6 Application procedures and requirements.

(a)(1) No investigation or testing will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application accompanied by all descriptions, specifications, test samples, and related materials. The application and all related matters and correspondence shall be addressed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059. Fees calculated in accordance with part 5 of this title shall be submitted in accordance with ยง 5.40.

(2) Where the applicant for approval has used an independent laboratory under part 6 of this chapter to perform, in whole or in part, the necessary testing and evaluation for approval under this part, the applicant must provide to MSHA as part of the approval application:

(i) Written evidence of the laboratory's independence and current recognition by a laboratory accrediting organization;

(ii) Complete technical explanation of how the product complies with each requirement in the applicable MSHA product approval requirements;

(iii) Identification of components or features of the product that are critical to the safety of the product; and

(iv) All documentation, including drawings and specifications, as submitted to the independent laboratory by the applicant and as required by this part.

(3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to non-MSHA product safety standards which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent, under ยง 6.20 of this chapter, to MSHA's product approval requirements under this part.

(b) Drawings, specifications, and descriptions shall be adequate in detail to identify fully the complete assembly, components, and subassemblies. Drawings, specifications, and descriptions shall include:

(1) Assembly drawing(s) showing the overall dimensions of the equipment, location and capacity of the fuel tank, location of flame arresters, exhaust-gas conditioner and its water-supply tank, if applicable, exhaust-gas dilution system, and other details that are essential to the functioning of the equipment.

(2) Except for equipment utilizing part 7, subpart F power packages, detailed drawings showing the intake, combustion, and exhaust systems of the diesel engine, including joints and gaskets; the turbulence or precombustion chamber, if applicable; injector assembly and nozzle details; and any surfaces that form the combustion chamber or part thereof, such as the cylinder head, piston and cylinder liner; and other features that may affect permissibility, such as exhaust-gas conditioner and flame arresters.

(3) Except for equipment utilizing part 7, subpart F power packages, a schematic drawing of the fuel system showing piping, connections, fuel filters, fuel-injection pump, and mechanical governor assembly. All components shall be identified to permit adjustment, as necessary, and the location of seals or locks to prevent tampering shall be indicated.

(4) Except for equipment utilizing part 7, subpart F power packages, drawing(s) specifying the kind of material and detailed dimensions of the components of explosion-proof enclosures, including joints and openings.

(5) Drawing(s) showing the construction of headlights, battery boxes, including seals or locks, and method of mounting.

(6) Other drawings, specifications, or descriptions identifying any feature that MSHA considers necessary for certification of the particular mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment.

(c) Shipment of the mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment or component part or subassembly as the case may be, shall be deferred until MSHA has notified the applicant that the application will be accepted. Shipping instructions will be issued by MSHA and shipping charges shall be prepaid by the application. Upon completion of the investigation and notification thereof to the applicant by MSHA, the applicant shall remove his equipment promptly from the test site (see ยง 36.40).

(d) The application shall state that the equipment is completely developed and of the design and materials that the applicant believes to be suitable for a finished marketable product or is a completely developed component or subassembly suitable for incorporation in a finished marketable complete assembly of mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment. If the final design of a component depends upon results of MSHA's tests, this shall be so stated in the application.

(e) For a complete investigation leading to approval and certification, the applicant shall furnish a complete operable assembly for inspecting and testing. Spare parts and expendable components, subject to wear in normal operation, shall be supplied by the applicant to permit continuous operation of the equipment during test periods. If special tools are necessary to disassembly any component for inspection or test, the applicant shall furnish these with the equipment to be tested.

(f) With each application, the applicant shall submit evidence of how he proposes to inspect his completely assembled mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment at the place of manufacture or assembly before shipment to purchasers. Ordinarily such inspection is recorded on a factory inspection form and the applicant shall furnish to MSHA a copy of his factory inspection form or equivalent with his application. The form shall direct attention to the points that must be checked to make certain that all components of the assembly are in proper condition, complete in all respects, and in agreement with the drawings, specifications, and descriptions filed with MSHA.

(g) With the application, the applicant shall furnish to MSHA complete instructions for operating and servicing his equipment. After completing MSHA's investigation, if any revision of the instructions is required, a revised copy thereof shall be submitted to MSHA for inclusion with the drawings and specifications.
