
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter K - Permanent Program Performance Standards
#### PART 816 - PERMANENT PROGRAM PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - SURFACE MINING ACTIVITIES
##### § 816.49 Impoundments.
###### Inspections.

(11)Except as provided in paragraph (a)(11)(iv) of this section, a qualified registered professional engineer or other qualified professional specialist under the direction of a professional engineer, shall inspect each impoundment as provided in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section. The professional engineer or specialist shall be experienced in the construction of impoundments.

(i) Inspections shall be made regularly during construction, upon completion of construction, and at least yearly until removal of the structure or release of the performance bond.

(ii) The qualified registered professional engineer, or qualified registered professional land surveyor as specified in paragraph (a)(11)(iv) of this section, shall promptly after each inspection required in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section provide to the regulatory authority a certified report that the impoundment has been constructed and/or maintained as designed and in accordance with the approved plan and this chapter. The report shall include discussion of any appearance of instability, structural weakness or other hazardous condition, depth and elevation of any impounded waters, existing storage capacity, any existing or required monitoring procedures and instrumentation, and any other aspects of the structure affecting stability.

(iii) A copy of the report shall be retained at or near the minesite.

(iv) In any State which authorizes land surveyors to prepare and certify plans in accordance with § 780.25(a) of this chapter, a qualified registered professional land surveyor may inspect any temporary or permanent impoundment that does not meet the SCS Class B or C criteria for dams in TR-60, or the size or other criteria of § 77.216(a) of this title and certify and submit the report required by paragraph (a)(11)(ii) of this section, except that all coal mine waste impounding structures covered by § 816.84 of this chapter shall be certified by a qualified registered professional engineer. The professional land surveyor shall be experienced in the construction of impoundments.

(12) Impoundments meeting the SCS Class B or C criteria for dams in TR-60, or the size or other criteria of § 77.216 of this title must be examined in accordance with § 77.216-3 of this title. Impoundments not meeting the SCS Class B or C criteria for dams in TR-60, or subject to § 77.216 of this title, shall be examined at least quarterly. A qualified person designated by the operator shall examine impoundments for the appearance of structural weakness and other hazardous conditions.
