
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 36 - APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMISSIBLE MOBILE DIESEL-POWERED TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 36.11 Approval plates.

(a) A certificate of approval will be accompanied by a photograph of an approval plate, bearing the emblem of the Mine Safety and Health Administration and spaces for the approval number, the type, the serial number, and ventilation requirement; the name of the complete assembly; and the name of the applicant.

(b) The applicant shall reproduce the design as a separate plate, which shall be attached, in a suitable place, on each complete assembly to which it relates. The size, type, and method of attaching and location of an approval plate are subject to MSHA's approval. The method of affixing the approval plate shall not impair the permissibility (explosion-proof) features of the complete assembly of mobile diesel-powered transportation equipment.

(c) The approval plate identifies the equipment, to which it is attached, as permissible and is the applicant's guarantee that the equipment complies with the requirements of this part. Without an approval plate no equipment is considered permissible under the provisions of this part.

(d) Use of the approval plate obligates the applicant to whom the certificate of approval was granted to maintain in his plant the quality of each complete assembly bearing it and guarantees that it is manufactured and assembled according to the drawings, specifications, and descriptions upon which a certificate of approval was based.
