
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter K - Permanent Program Performance Standards
#### PART 816 - PERMANENT PROGRAM PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - SURFACE MINING ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 816.68 Use of explosives: Records of blasting operations.

The operator shall retain a record of all blasts for at least 3 years. Upon request, copies of these records shall be made available to the regulatory authority and to the public for inspection. Such records shall contain the following data:

(a) Name of the operator conducting the blast.

(b) Location, date, and time of the blast.

(c) Name, signature, and certification number of the blaster conducting the blast.

(d) Identification, direction, and distance, in feet, from the nearest blast hole to the nearest dwelling, public building, school, church, community or institutional building outside the permit area, except those described in ยง 816.67(e).

(e) Weather conditions, including those which may cause possible adverse blasting effects.

(f) Type of material blasted.

(g) Sketches of the blast pattern including number of holes, burden, spacing, decks, and delay pattern.

(h) Diameter and depth of holes.

(i) Types of explosives used.

(j) Total weight of explosives used per hole.

(k) The maximum weight of explosives detonated in an 8-millisecond period.

(l) Initiation system.

(m) Type and length of stemming.

(n) Mats or other protections used.

(o) Seismographic and airblast records, if required, which shall include-

(1) Type of instrument, sensitivity, and calibration signal or certification of annual calibration;

(2) Exact location of instrument and the date, time, and distance from the blast;

(3) Name of the person and firm taking the reading;

(4) Name of the person and firm analyzing the seismographic record; and

(5) The vibration and/or airblast level recorded.

(p) Reasons and conditions for each unscheduled blast.
