
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 36 - APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMISSIBLE MOBILE DIESEL-POWERED TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 36.23 Engine intake system.
####### Intake flame arrester.

(b)(1) The intake system shall include a flame arrester that will prevent an explosion within the system from propagating to a surrounding flammable mixture. This flame arrester shall be between the air cleaner and the intake manifold and shall be attached so that it may be removed for inspecting, cleaning, or repairing. Its construction shall be such that it may be cleaned readily. The flame arrester shall be of rugged construction to withstand the effects of repeated explosions within the intake system, and the material of construction shall resist deterioration in service. It shall be so mounted in the equipment assembly that it is protected from accidental external damage.

(2) The parts of any flame arrester shall be positively positioned to produce a flame path that will arrest the propagation of an explosion and shall be so designed that improper assembly is impossible. In flame arresters of the spaced-plate type, the thickness of the plates shall be at least 0.125 inch; spacing between the plates shall not exceed 0.018 inch; and the plates forming the flame path shall be at least 1 inch wide. The unsupported length of the plates shall be short enough that deformation during the explosion tests shall not exceed 0.002 inch. Corrosion-resistant metal shall be used to construct flame arresters.
