
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter K - Permanent Program Performance Standards
#### PART 817 - PERMANENT PROGRAM PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND MINING ACTIVITIES
##### § 817.46 Hydrologic balance: Siltation structures.
###### General requirements.

(b)(1) Additional contributions of suspended solids and sediment to streamflow or runoff outside the permit area shall be prevented to the extent possible using the best technology currently available.

(2) All surface drainage from the disturbed area shall be passed through a siltation structure before leaving the permit area, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) or (e) of this section. The requirements of this paragraph are suspended effective December 22, 1986, per court order.

(3) Siltation structures for an area shall be constructed before beginning any underground mining activities in that area, and upon construction shall be certified by a qualified registered professional engineer, or, in any State which authorizes land surveyors to prepare and certify plans in accordance with § 784.16(a) of this chapter, a qualified registered professional land surveyor, to be constructed as designed and as approved in the reclamation plan.

(4) Any siltation structure which impounds water shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with § 817.49 of this chapter.

(5) Siltation structures shall be maintained until removal is authorized by the regulatory authority and the disturbed area has been stabilized and revegetated. In no case shall the structure be removed sooner than 2 years after the last augmented seeding.

(6) When the siltation structure is removed, the land on which the siltation structure was located shall be regraded and revegetated in accordance with the reclamation plan and §§ 817.111 through 817.116 of this chapter. Sedimentation ponds approved by the regulatory authority for retention as permanent impoundments may be exempted from this requirement.

(7) Any point-source discharge of water from underground workings to surface waters which does not meet the effluent limitations of § 817.42 shall be passed through a siltation structure before leaving the permit area.
