
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter K - Permanent Program Performance Standards
#### PART 817 - PERMANENT PROGRAM PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - UNDERGROUND MINING ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 817.49 Impoundments.
###### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) Impoundments meeting the Class B or C criteria for dams in the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service Technical Release No. 60 (210-VI-TR60, Oct. 1985), "Earth Dams and Reservoirs," shall comply with the, "Minimum Emergency Spillway Hydrologic Criteria," table in TR-60 and the requirements of this section. The technical release is hereby incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia 22161, order No. PB 87-157509-AS. Copies can be inspected at the OSM Headquarters Office, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Administrative Record, 1951 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(2) An impoundment meeting the size or other criteria of ยง 77.216(a) of this title shall comply with the requirements of ยง 77.216 of this title and this section.
