
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 36 - APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMISSIBLE MOBILE DIESEL-POWERED TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 36.25 Engine exhaust system.
####### Exhaust flame arrester.

(b)(1) The exhaust system of the engine shall be provided with a flame arrester to prevent propagation of flame or discharge of heated particles to a surrounding flammable mixture. The flame arrester shall be so positioned that only cooled exhaust gas will discharge through it and shall be so designed and attached that it can be removed for inspecting, cleaning, or repairing. Its construction shall be such that it can be cleaned readily. The flame arrester shall be of rugged construction to withstand the effects of repeated explosions within the exhaust system, and the material of construction shall resist deterioration in service. It shall be so mounted in the equipment assembly that it is protected from accidental external damage.

(2) A spaced-plate flame arrester for the exhaust system shall meet the same requirements as flame arresters for the intake system (see ยง 36.23(b)(2)).

(3) In lieu of a space-place flame arrester, an exhaust-gas cooling box or conditioner may be used as the exhaust flame arrester provided that explosion tests demonstrate that the cooling box will arrest flame. When used as a flame arrester the cooling box shall be equipped with a device to shut off automatically the fuel supply to the engine at a safe minimum water level. A cooling box used as a flame arrester shall withstand repeated explosion tests without permanent deformation. It shall be constructed of material, satisfactory to MSHA, that will resist deterioration in service.
