
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 36 - APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMISSIBLE MOBILE DIESEL-POWERED TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Construction and Design Requirements
###### ยง 36.25 Engine exhaust system.
####### Exhaust cooling system.

(c)(1) A cooling system shall be provided for the engine exhaust gas. The heat-dissipation capacity shall be capable of reducing the temperature of the undiluted exhaust gas to less than 170 &#xB0;F. at the point of discharge from the cooling system under any condition of engine operation acceptable to MSHA. A device shall be provided that will automatically shut off the fuel supply to the engine immediately if the temperature of the exhaust gas exceeds 185 &#xB0;F. at the point of discharge from the cooling system. Provision shall be made, acceptable to MSHA, to prevent restarting the engine after the fuel supply has been shut off automatically until the water supply in the cooling box has been replenished. When the cooling box is used as a flame arrester, one safety device may be accepted provided it controls a safe minimum water level in the cooling box and also prevents the final exhaust temperature from exceeding 185 &#xB0;F.

(2) Cooling shall be obtained by passing the exhaust gas through water or a dilute aqueous chemical solution held in a cooling box or conditioner, or by a spray of water or a dilute aqueous chemical solution that will enter the exhaust system near the outlet of the exhaust manifold, or a combination of the two methods. When a spray is used it shall be provided with a filtering device to protect the nozzle from clogging. Provisions shall be made for draining and cleaning all parts of the exhaust cooling system. Openings for draining and cleaning shall be closed and sealed or locked by a method satisfactory to MSHA.

(3) The cooling system shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant metal suitable for the intended application.

(4) The cooling system shall store enough water or aqueous solution to permit operation of the engine at one-third load factor for eight hours. The minimum quantity of usable water or aqueous solution available for cooling shall equal the consumption for one hour with the engine operating at maximum load and speed multiplied by 8 and this product divided by 3.
