
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter L - Permanent Program Inspection and Enforcement Procedures
#### PART 843 - FEDERAL ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 843.14 Service of notices of violation, cessation orders, and show cause orders.

(a) A notice of violation, cessation order, or show cause order shall be served on the person to whom it is directed or his or her designated agent promptly after issuance, as follows:

(1) By tendering a copy at the coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation operation to the designated agent or to the individual who, based upon reasonable inquiry, appears to be in charge. If no such individual can be located at the site, a copy may be tendered to any individual at the site who appears to be an employee or agent of the person to whom the notice or order is issued. Service shall be complete upon tender of the notice or order and shall not be deemed incomplete because of refusal to accept.

(2) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, service may be made by sending a copy of the notice or order by certified mail or by hand to the permittee or his or her designated agent, or by any means consistent with the rules governing service of a summons and complaint under rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service shall be complete upon tender of the notice or order or of the certified mail and shall not be deemed incomplete because of refusal to accept.

(b) Designation by any person of an agent for service of notices and orders shall be made in writing to the appropriate State or field office of the Office.

(c) The Office shall furnish copies of notices and orders to the State regulatory authority, if any, promptly after their issuance. The Office may furnish copies to any person having an interest in the coal exploration, surface coal mining and reclamation operation, or the permit area.
