
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter L - Permanent Program Inspection and Enforcement Procedures
#### PART 843 - FEDERAL ENFORCEMENT
##### ยง 843.15 Informal public hearing.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a notice of violation or cessation order which requires cessation of mining, expressly or by necessary implication, shall expire within 30 days after it is served unless an informal public hearing has been held within that time. The hearing shall be held at or reasonably close to the mine site so that it may be viewed during the hearing or at any other location acceptable to the Office and the person to whom the notice or order was issued. The Office of Surface Mining office nearest to the mine site shall be deemed to be reasonably close to the mine site unless a closer location is requested and agreed to by the Office. Expiration of a notice or order shall not affect the Office's right to assess civil penalties with respect to the period during which the notice or order was in effect. No hearing will be required where the condition, practice, or violation in question has been abated or the hearing has been waived. For purposes of this section only, "mining" includes (1) extracting coal from the earth or from coal waste piles and transporting it within or from the permit area, and (2) the processing, cleaning, concentrating, preparing or loading of coal where such operations occur at a place other than at a mine site.

(b) A notice of violation or cessation order shall not expire as provided in paragraph (a) of this section if the informal public hearing has been waived, or if, with the consent of the person to whom the notice or order was issued, the informal public hearing is held later than 30 days after the notice or order was served. For purposes of this subsection:

(1) The informal public hearing will be deemed waived if the person to whom the notice or order was issued:

(i) Is informed, by written notice served in the manner provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that he or she will be deemed to have waived an informal public hearing unless he or she requests one within 30 days after service of the notice; and

(ii) Fails to request an informal public hearing within that time.

(2) The written notice referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be delivered to such person by an authorized representative or sent by certified mail to such person no later than 5 days after the notice or order is served on such person.

(3) The person to whom the notice or order is issued shall be deemed to have consented to an extension of the time for holding the informal public hearing if his or her request is received on or after the 21st day after service of the notice or order. The extension of time shall be equal to the number of days elapsed after the 21st day.

(c) The Office shall give as much advance notice as is practicable of the time, place, and subject matter of the informal public hearing to:

(1) The person to whom the notice or order was issued;

(2) Any person who filed a report which led to that notice or order; and

(3) The State regulatory authority, if any.

(d) The Office shall also post notice of the hearing at the State or field office closest to the mine site and, where practicable, publish it in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the mine.

(e) Section 554 of Title 5 of the United States Code, regarding requirements for formal adjudicatory hearings, shall not govern informal public hearings. An informal public hearing shall be conducted by a representative of the Office, who may accept oral or written arguments and any other relevant information from any person attending.

(f) Within five days after the close of the informal public hearing, the Office shall affirm, modify, or vacate the notice or order in writing. The decision shall be sent to-

(1) The person to whom the notice or order was issued;

(2) Any person who filed a report which led to the notice or order; and

(3) The State regulatory authority, if any.

(g) The granting or waiver of an informal public hearing shall not affect the right of any person to formal review under section 518(b), 521(a)(4), or 525 of the Act.

(h) The person conducting the hearing for the Office shall determine whether or not the mine site should be viewed during the hearing. In making this determination the only consideration shall be whether a view of the mine site will assist the person conducting the hearing in reviewing the appropriateness of the enforcement action or of the required remedial action.
