
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter L - Permanent Program Inspection and Enforcement Procedures
#### PART 845 - CIVIL PENALTIES
##### ยง 845.13 Point system for penalties.
###### A greater degree of fault than negligence

(C)means reckless, knowing, or intentional conduct.

(iii) In calculating points to be assigned for negligence, the acts of all persons working on the coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation site shall be attributed to the person to whom the notice or order was issued, unless that person establishes that they were acts of deliberate sabotage.

(4) Good faith in attempting to achieve compliance.

(i) The Office shall add points based on the degree of good faith of the person to whom the notice or order was issued in attempting to achieve rapid compliance after notification of the violation. Points shall be assigned as follows:

(ii) The following definitions shall apply under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section:

(A) Rapid compliance means that the person to whom the notice or order was issued took extraordinary measures to abate the violation in the shortest possible time and that abatement was achieved before the time set for abatement.

(B) Normal compliance means the person to whom the notice or order was issued abated the violation within the time given for abatement.

(iii) If the consideration of this criterion is impractical because of the length of the abatement period, the assessment may be made without considering this criterion and may be reassessed after the violation has been abated.
