
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter P - Protection of Employees
#### PART 865 - PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES
##### ยง 865.13 Investigation and conference procedures.

(a) Within 7 days after receipt of any application for review, the Office shall mail a copy of the application for review to the person alleged to have caused the discrimination, shall file the application for review with the Office of Hearings and Appeals and shall notify the employee and the alleged discriminating person that the Office will investigate the complaint. The alleged discriminating person may file a response to the application for review within 10 days after he receives the copy of the application for review. The response shall specifically admit, deny or explain each of the facts alleged in the application unless the alleged discriminating person is without knowledge in which case he shall so state.

(b) The Office shall initiate an investigation of the alleged discrimination with 30 days after receipt of the application for review. The Office shall complete the investigation with 60 days of the date of the receipt of the application for review. If circumstances surrounding the investigation prevent completion within the 60-day period, the Office shall notify the person who filed the application for review and the alleged discriminating person of the delay, the reason for the delay, and the expected completion date for the investigation.

(c) Within 7 days after completion of the investigation the Office shall invite the parties to an informal conference to discuss the findings and preliminary conclusions of the investigation. The purpose of the informal conference is to attempt to conciliate the matter. If a complaint is resolved at an informal conference, the terms of the agreement will be recorded in a written document that will be signed by the alleged discriminating person, the employee and the representative of the Office. If the Office concludes on the basis of a subsequent investigation that any party to the agreement has failed in any material respect to comply with the terms of any agreement reached during an informal conference, the Office shall take appropriate action to obtain compliance with the agreement.

(d) Following the investigation and any informal conference held, the Office shall complete a report of investigation which shall include a summary of the results of the conference. Copies of this report shall be available to the parties in the case.
