
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 36 - APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMISSIBLE MOBILE DIESEL-POWERED TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Test Requirements
###### ยง 36.46 Explosion tests of intake and exhaust systems.

(a) Explosion tests to determine the strength of the intake and exhaust systems to withstand internal explosions and the adequacy of the flame arresters to prevent the propagation of an explosion shall be made with the systems connected to the engine or the systems simulated as connected to the engine. The system shall be filled with and surrounded by an explosive natural gas-air mixture. The mixture within the intake and exhaust systems shall be ignited by suitable means and the internal pressure developed by the resultant explosion shall be determined. Tests shall be conducted with the ignition source in several different locations to determine the maximum pressure developed by an internal explosion.

(b) Explosion tests shall be made with the engine at rest and with the flammable natural gas-air mixtures in the intake and exhaust systems. In other tests with the flammable mixture in motion, the engine shall be driven (externally) at speeds prescribed by MSHA but no liquid fuel shall be supplied to the injection valves.

(c) The temperature of the flame arresters in the intake or exhaust systems shall not exceed 212 &#xB0;F. when an explosion test is conducted. Any water-spray cooling for the exhaust system shall not be operated and water shall not be present in the exhaust cooling boxes except when water is the cooling agent for a cooling box designed to act as a flame arrester, in which case MSHA will prescribe the test conditions.

(d) The explosion tests of the intake and exhaust systems shall not result in:

(1) Discharge of visible flame from any joint or opening.

(2) Ignition of surrounding flammable gas-air mixture.

(3) Development of dangerous afterburning.

(4) Excessive pressures.
