
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter B - Testing, Evaluation, and Approval of Mining Products
#### PART 36 - APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMISSIBLE MOBILE DIESEL-POWERED TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Test Requirements
###### ยง 36.47 Tests of exhaust-gas cooling system.

(a) The adequacy of the exhaust-gas cooling system and its components shall be determined with the engine operating at the maximum allowable liquid fuel rate and governed speed with 0.5 +/-0.1 percent, by volume, of natural gas in the intake air mixture. All parts of the engine and exhaust-gas cooling system shall be at their respective equilibrium temperatures. The cooling spray, if any, shall be operated, and all compartments designed to hold cooling water shall be filled with the quantity of water recommended by the applicant. No cooling air shall be circulated over the engine or components in the cooling system during the test.

(b) Determinations shall be made during the test to establish the cooling performance of the system, the cooling water consumption, high-water level when the system sprays excess water, and low-water level when the cooling system fails.

(c) The final exhaust-gas temperature at discharge from the cooling system, and before the exhaust gas is diluted with air, shall not exceed 170 &#xB0;F. or the temperature of adiabatic saturation, if this temperature is lower.

(d) Water consumed in cooling the exhaust gas under the test conditions shall not exceed by more than 15 percent that required for adiabatic saturation of the exhaust-gas at the final temperature. Water in excess of that required for adiabatic saturation shall be considered as entrained water. Enough water shall be available in the cooling system or in reserve supply compartments for sustained satisfactory operation for at least 2hours under the test conditions.

(e) The adequacy of the automatic fuel shutoff actuated by the temperature of the final exhaust shall be determined with the engine operating under test conditions by withdrawing water until the cooling system fails to function. The final exhaust-gas temperature at which the liquid fuel to the engine is automatically shut off shall be noted. This temperature shall not exceed 185 &#xB0;F.

(f) Following the automatic fuel shutoff test in paragraph (e) of this section, the temperature of the control point shall be allowed to fall to 170 &#xB0;F. At this temperature and with the water replenished in the cooling system, it shall be possible to start the engine.

(g) The effectiveness of the automatic engine shut-off, which will operate when the water in the cooling jacket(s) exceeds 212 &#xB0;F., shall be determined by causing the jacket temperature to exceed 212 &#xB0;F.
