
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter R - Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation
#### PART 870 - ABANDONED MINE RECLAMATION FUND - FEE COLLECTION AND COAL PRODUCTION REPORTING
##### ยง 870.19 How to calculate excess moisture in HIGH-rank coals.
###### Standard Test Methods for Collection of a Gross Sample of Coal,Standard Test Method for Total Moisture in Coal,Standard Practice for Collection of Coal Samples from Core,Standard Test Method for Equilibrium Moisture of Coal at 96 to 97 Percent Relative Humidity and 30 &#xB0;C,Standard Practice for Collection of Channel Samples of Coal in a Mine,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

Here are the requirements for calculating the excess moisture in high-rank coals for a calendar quarter. ASTM standards D2234-89,; D3302-91,; D5192-91,; D1412-93,; and, D4596-93,are incorporated by reference as published in the 1994 Annual Book of ASTM Standards, Volume 05.05. The Director of the Federal Register approved this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Each applicable ASTM standard is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval, and a notice of any change in it will be published in theYou may obtain copies from the ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428. A copy of the ASTM standards is available for inspection at the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Administrative Record, Room 101, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(a)(1) Calculate the excess moisture percentage using one of these equations:

(2) EM equals excess moisture percentage. TM equals total as-shipped moisture percentage calculated according to Table 1 of this section. IM equals inherent moisture percentage calculated according to Table 2 of this section.

(b) Multiply the excess moisture percentage by the tonnage from the bonafide sales, transfers of ownership, or uses by the operator during the quarter.
