
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter R - Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation
#### PART 876 - ACID MINE DRAINAGE TREATMENT AND ABATEMENT PROGRAM
##### ยง 876.12 Eligibility.

(a) Beginning December 20, 2006, any uncertified State or Indian tribe having an approved reclamation program may receive and retain, without regard to the limitation in section 402(g)(1)(D) of SMCRA, up to 30 percent of the total of the funds distributed annually to that State or Indian tribe under section 402(g)(1) of SMCRA (State or Tribal share) and section 402(g)(5) of SMCRA (historic coal funds). For funds awarded before December 20, 2006, any uncertified State or Indian tribe may retain up to 10 percent of the funds distributed to it for an acid mine drainage fund. All amounts set aside under this section must be deposited into an acid mine drainage abatement and treatment fund established under State or Indian tribal law.

(b) Before depositing funds under this part, an uncertified State or Indian tribe must:

(1) Establish a special fund account providing for the earning of interest on fund balances; and

(2) Specify that moneys in the account may only be used for the abatement of the causes and treatment of the effects of acid mine drainage in a comprehensive manner within qualified hydrologic units (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) affected by coal mining practices.

(c) As used in paragraph (b) of this section, "qualified hydrologic unit" means a hydrologic unit:

(1) In which the water quality has been significantly affected by acid mine drainage from coal mining practices in a manner that adversely impacts biological resources; and

(2) That contains lands and waters that are:

(i) Eligible under section 404 of SMCRA and include any of the priorities described in section 403(a) of SMCRA; and

(ii) The subject of the expenditure from the forfeiture of a bond required under section 509 of SMCRA or from other State sources to abate and treat acid mine drainage.

(d) After the conditions specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are met, OSM may approve a grant and the State or Indian tribe may deposit moneys into the special fund account. The moneys so deposited, together with any interest earned, must be considered State or Indian tribal moneys.
