
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter R - Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation
#### PART 879 - ACQUISITION, MANAGEMENT, AND DISPOSITION OF LANDS AND WATER
##### § 879.15 Disposition of reclaimed land.

(a) Prior to the disposition of any land acquired under this part, OSM, State, or Indian tribe shall publish a notice of proposed land disposition, hold public hearings, if required, and make written findings in accordance with the authority contained in section 407(g)(2) of the Act.

(b) OSM may transfer administrative responsibility for land acquired by OSM to any Federal Department or Agency, with or without cost to that Department or Agency. OSM may transfer title for land acquired by OSM to any State or Indian tribe or to any agency or political subdivision of a State or Indian tribe, with or without cost to that entity, for the purposes set out in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section. The agreement under which a transfer is made shall specify-

(1) The purposes for which the land may be used, which shall be consistent with the authorization under which the land was acquired; and

(2) That the title of administrative responsibility for the land shall revert to OSM, State, or Indian tribe if, at any time in the future, OSM finds that the land is not used for the purposes specified.

(c) OSM may accept title for abandoned and unreclaimed land to be reclaimed and administered by OSM. If a State or Indian tribe transfers land to OSM under this section, that State or Indian tribe shall have a preference right to purchase such land from OSM after reclamation is completed. The price to be paid by the State or Indian tribe shall be the fair market value of the land in its reclaimed condition less any portion of the land acquisition price paid by the State or Indian tribe.

(d) OSM may sell land acquired and reclaimed under this part, except that acquired for housing under § 879.11(c), to the State or local government at less than fair market value but in no case less than purchase price plus reclamation cost provided such land is used for a valid public purpose.

(e) OSM may transfer or sell land acquired for housing under § 879.11(c), with or without monetary consideration, to any State or political subdivision of a State, to an Indian tribe, or to any firm, association, or corporation. The conditions of transfer or sale shall be in accordance with section 407(h) of the Act.

(f) OSM may transfer title for land acquired for housing under § 879.11(c) by grants or commitments for grants, or may advance money under such terms and conditions as required, to-

(1) Any State or Indian tribe; or

(2) A department, agency, or instrumentality of a State; or

(3) Any public body or nonprofit organization designated by a State.

(g)(1) OSM may sell or authorize the States or Indian tribes to sell land acquired under this part by public sale if-

(i) Such land is suitable for industrial, commercial, residential, or recreational development;

(ii) Such development is consistent with local, State, of Federal land use plans for the area in which the land is located; and

(iii) Retention by OSM, State, or Indian tribe, or disposal under other paragraphs of this section is not in the public interest.

(2) Disposal procedures will be in accordance with section 407(g) of the Act and applicable State or Indian tribal requirements.

(3) States may transfer title or administrative responsibility for land to cities, municipalities, or quasi-governmental bodies, provided that the State provide for the reverter of the title or administrative responsibility if the land is no longer used for the purposes originally proposed.

(h) You must return all moneys received from disposal of land under this part to us. We will handle all moneys received under this paragraph as unused funds in accordance with §§ 885.19 and 886.20 of this chapter.
