
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter R - Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation
#### PART 882 - RECLAMATION ON PRIVATE LAND
##### ยง 882.12 Appraisals.

(a) A notarized appraisal of private land to be reclaimed which may be subject to a lien under ยง 882.13 shall be obtained from an independent appraiser. The appraisal shall state-

(1) The estimated market value of the property in its unreclaimed condition; and

(2) The estimated market value of the property as reclaimed.

(b) This appraisal shall be made prior to start of reclamation activities. The agency shall furnish to the appraiser information of sufficient detail in the form of plans, factual data, specifications, etc., to make such appraisals. When reclamation requires more than 6 months to complete, an updated appraisal under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be made to determine if the increase in value as originally appraised has actually occurred. Such updated appraisal shall not include any increase in value of the land as unreclaimed. If the updated appraised value results in lower increase in value, such increase shall be used as a basis for the lien. However, an increase in value resulting from the updated appraisal shall not be considered in determining a lien. OSM shall provide appraisal standards for Federal projects, and the State or Indian tribes shall provide appraisal standards for State or Indian tribal projects consistent with generally acceptable appraisal practice.
