
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter R - Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation
#### PART 887 - SUBSIDENCE INSURANCE PROGRAM GRANTS
##### ยง 887.12 Coverage and amount of grants.

(a) You may use moneys granted under this part to develop, administer, and operate a subsidence insurance program to insure private property against damages caused by subsidence resulting from underground coal mining. The moneys may be used to cover your costs for services and materials according to OMB cost principles, Circular A-87. You may use eligible grant moneys to cover capitalization requirements and initial reserve requirements mandated by applicable State or Tribal law provided use of such moneys is consistent with the 43 CFR part 12.

(b) You must submit a grant application under the procedures of part 885 of this chapter for certified States and Indian tribes or part 886 of this chapter for uncertified States or Indian tribes. Your application must include the following:

(1) A narrative statement describing how the subsidence insurance program is "State or Indian tribe administered"; and

(2) A narrative statement describing how the funds requested will achieve a self-sustaining individual State or Indian tribe administered program to insure private property against subsidence resulting from underground coal mining.

(c) Grants awarded to you under this part cannot exceed a cumulative total over the lifetime of the program of $3 million.

(d) You may not use grant moneys from the Fund for lands that are ineligible for reclamation funding under Title IV of SMCRA.

(e) Insurance premiums must be considered program income and must be used to further eligible subsidence insurance program objectives in accordance with 43 CFR part 12.
