
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 905 - CALIFORNIA
##### ยง 905.700 California Federal Program.

(a) This part contains all rules that are applicable to surface coal mining operations in California which have been adopted under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977.

(b) Certain of the rules in this part cross-reference pertinent parts of the permanent program regulations in this Chapter. The full text of a cross-referenced rule is in the permanent program rule cited under the relevant section of the California Federal program.

(c) This part applies to all coal exploration and surface coal mining and reclamation operations in California conducted on non-Federal and non-Indian lands. To the extent required by 30 CFR part 740, this part also applies to operations on Federal lands in California.

(d) The information collection requirements contained in this part have already been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 in its approval of the information collection requirements contained in the permanent regulatory program.

(e) The following provisions of California law generally provide for more stringent land use and environmental control and regulation of some aspects of surface coal mining operations than do the provisions of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, and the regulations in this chapter. Therefore, pursuant to section 505(b) of SMCRA, these provisions shall not generally be considered to be inconsistent with SMCRA unless, in a particular instance, the Federal program regulations establish more stringent environmental or land use controls:
