
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 905 - CALIFORNIA
##### ยง 905.773 Requirements for permits and permit processing.
###### et seq.,et seq.,et seq.,et seq.;,et seq.,et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(c) Where applicable, no person shall conduct coal exploration operations which result in the removal of more than 250 tons in one location or surface coal mining and reclamation operations without a permit issued by the Secretary pursuant to 30 CFR parts 772 and 773 and permits, leases and/or certificates required by the State of California, including compliance with the Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act, Cal. Pub. Res. Code section 13000; the California Water Code section 1200; the California Air Pollution Control Laws, Cal. Health & Safety Code section 39000; the Hazardous Waste Control Law, Cal. Health & Safety Code section 25100the State Underground Storage of Hazardous Substances Law, Cal. Health & Safety Code section 25280; the Solid Waste Management and Resource Recovery Act of 1972, Cal. Gov. Code section 66770; the California Environmental Quality Act, Cal. Pub. Res. Code section 21000; the California Coastal Act of 1976, Cal. Pub. Res. Code section 30000; the Z'berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973, Cal. Pub. Res. Code section 4511; and the California Public Resources Code section 4656.

(d) In addition to the requirements of part 773, the following permit application review procedures shall apply:

(1) Any person applying for a permit shall submit five copies of the application to the Western Field Operations office (WFO) in Denver, Colorado.

(2) The WFO shall review an application for administrative completeness and acceptability for further review and shall notify the applicant in writing of the findings. The WFO may:

(i) Reject a flagrantly deficient application, notifying the applicant of the findings;

(ii) Request additional information required for completeness stating specifically what information must be supplied; or

(iii) Judge the application administratively complete and acceptable for further review.

(3) When the application is judged administratively complete, the applicant shall be advised by the WFO to file the public notice required by ยง 773.6 of this chapter.

(4) A representative of the WFO shall visit the proposed permit area to determine whether the operation and reclamation plans are consistent with actual site conditions. The applicant will be notified in advance of the time of the visit. At the time of the visit, the applicant shall have the locations of the proposed permit boundaries, topsoil storage areas, sediment control structures, roads, and other significant features contained in the application marked by flags.
