
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 905 - CALIFORNIA
##### § 905.773 Requirements for permits and permit processing.
###### et seq.

(5) Adequacy of information to allow the WFO to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4332, and the National Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 470, shall be considered in the determination of a complete application. The WFO may require specific additional information from the applicant as any environmental review progresses when such specific information is needed.

(e) In addition to the information required by subchapter G of this chapter, the WFO may require an applicant to submit supplemental information to ensure compliance with applicable Federal laws and regulations other than the Act.

(f) The regulatory authority shall review the application for a permit, written comments and objections submitted; and records of any informal conference or hearing held on the application and, where there is no environmental impact statement (EIS) and the WFO has found, pursuant to 36 WFO 800.4(d) and 800.5(b), that the operation will not affect historic properties, issue a written decision within 60 days from the close of the comment period or if an informal conference is held under § 773.6(c), 60 days from the close of the informal conference. Where an EIS has been prepared for the application and/or the WFO must comply with 36 CFR 800.5 (d) or (e), the written decision shall be issued within 60 days from the Environmental Protection Agency's publication of the notice of availability of the final EIS in theor the completion of OSMRE's responsibilities under 36 CFR part 800, whichever is later.

(g) Only application information that is labeled confidential by the applicant and submitted separately from the remainder of the application will be reviewed by OSMRE for withholding from disclosure under § 773.6(d).

(1) If the application contains information identified as confidential by the applicant, the public notice required by § 905.773(d)(3) must identify the type of information considered to be confidential.

(2) OSMRE shall determine in regard to qualification of any application information labeled confidential within 10 days of the last publication of the notice required under § 905.773(d)(3) of this chapter, unless additional time is necessary to obtain public comment or in the event of unforeseen circumstances.
