
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 905 - CALIFORNIA
##### § 905.774 Revision; renewal; and transfer, assignment, or sale of permit rights.
###### Revision; Renewal; and Transfer, Assignment, or Sale of Permit Rights,

(a) Part 774 of this chapter,shall apply to any such actions involving surface coal mining and reclamation operations permits, except as specified below.

(b) Any revision to the approved mining or reclamation plan will be subject to review and approval by the WFO. A significant revision to the reclamation plan will be subject to the public notice and hearing provisions of §§ 905.773(d)(3) and 773.6 (b) and (c) prior to approval and implementation. A revision to the reclamation plan will be considered significant if it has the potential to adversely affect the achievement of reclamation as specified in the approved plan.

(c) The regulatory authority will approve or disapprove non-significant permit revisions within 30 days of receipt of the administratively complete revision. Significant revisions and renewals will be approved or disapproved under the provisions of § 905.773(f).

(d) In addition to the requirements of part 774 of this chapter, any person having an interest which is or may be adversely affected by a decision on the transfer, assignment, or sale of permit rights, including an official of any Federal, State, or local government agency, may submit written comments on the application to the Office within 30 days of the publication of the newspaper advertisement required by § 774.17(b)(2) of this chapter, or receipt of an administratively complete application, whichever is later.

(e) Within 30 days from the last publication of the newspaper notice, written comments or objections on an application for significant revision, or renewal of a permit under § 774.15 of this chapter may be submitted to the regulatory authority by any person having an interest that is or may be adversely affected by the decision on the application, or by public entities notified under § 773.6(a)(3) of this chapter with respect to the effects of the proposed mining operations on the environment within their areas of responsibility.
