
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 905 - CALIFORNIA
##### ยง 905.800 Bond and insurance requirements for surface coal mining and reclamation operations under regulatory programs.
###### Bond and Insurance Requirements for Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations Under Regulatory Programs,

(a) Part 800 of this chapter,shall apply to all surface coal mining and reclamation operations, except for ยง 800.40(a)(1) regarding the bond release application, for which paragraph (b) of this section substitutes and except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(b) The permittee may file an application with the regulatory authority for the release of all or part of a performance bond. The application shall be filed no later than 30 days prior to the end of the vegetation growing season in order to evaluate properly the completed reclamation operations. The appropriate season for evaluating reclaimed operations shall be identified in the mining and reclamation plan required by subchapter G of this chapter approved by the regulatory authority.

(c) The following bonds are acceptable for compliance with the California Federal Program.

(1) A surety bond;

(2) A collateral bond;

(3) A self-bond; or

(4) A combination of these bonding methods.

(d) A permittee may replace existing bonds with other bonds that provide equivalent coverage.
