
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 910 - GEORGIA
##### ยง 910.700 Georgia Federal program.

(a) This part contains all rules that are applicable to surface coal mining operations in Georgia which have been adopted under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977.

(b) The rules in this part cross-reference pertinent parts of the permanent program regulations in this chapter. The full text of a rule is in the permanent program rule cited under the relevant section of the Georgia Federal program.

(c) The rules in this part apply to all surface coal mining operations in Georgia conducted on non-Federal and non-Indian lands. The rules in subchapter D of this chapter apply to operations on Federal lands in Georgia.

(d) The information collection requirements contained in this part do not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 because there are fewer than ten respondents annually.

(e) The following provisions of Georgia laws provide, where applicable, for more stringent environmental control and regulation of surface coal mining operations than do the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this chapter. Therefore, pursuant to section 505(b) of the Act, they shall not be construed to be inconsistent with the Act:

(1) Georgia Code Ann. section 56-412 pertaining to limitation of risks for insurance companies.

(2) Georgia Code Ann. section 414-1306 pertaining to the limitation on loan amounts made by banks.

(3) Georgia Safe Dams Act of 1978 and the Rules for Dam Safety, Chapter 391-3-8 of the Rules of the Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division.

(4) Chapter 391-34 of the rules of the Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, pertaining to solid waste management.

(5) Georgia Seed Laws and Rules and Regulations containing the Noxious Weed List.

(f) The following are Georgia laws that interfere with the achievement of the purposes and requirements of the act and are, in accordance with Section 504(g) of the Act, preempted and superseded:
