
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 917 - KENTUCKY
##### ยง 917.21 Approval of Kentucky abandoned mine land reclamation plan amendments.
###### Kentucky Resources Council,Norton,

(d) The Kentucky Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Plan amendment, submitted to OSM on April 29, 2002, is approved with the following exceptions. The word "or," which appears at the end of paragraph 1 of the section entitled "Lands for Permanent Facilities," is not approved. We are approving the State of Kentucky's incorporation by reference of the Federal AML Enhancement Rule into their regulations. This approval is subject to the restrictions placed upon the Federal regulation by the court inv.2002 U.S. App. Lexis 11365, Slip. Op. at 5. (D.C. Cir. May 30, 2002) The "Reclamation Agreements" provision at the end of Chapter 12 only applies to AML reclamation projects authorized through the Federal AML grant process. Copies may be obtained at the address listed in (a)(2) of this section for OSM or the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, 2521 Old Lawrenceburg Road, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.

(e) The Kentucky AMLR Plan amendment submitted on April 23, 2007, and consisting of revisions to KRS Chapter 350 that correspond to changes to the Federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 resulting from the Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, is approved.
