
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 921 - MASSACHUSETTS
##### ยง 921.773 Requirements for permits and permit processing.
###### et seq.;

(d) No person shall conduct coal exploration which results in the removal of more than 250 tons of coal nor shall any person conduct surface coal mining operations without a permit issued by the Secretary pursuant to 30 CFR part 773 and applicable permits issued pursuant to the laws of the State of Massachusetts, including: The Historic and Scenic Rivers Act, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 21, sections 8-17B; Massachusetts Register of Historic Places, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 152 and the regulations (950 CMR 71); Historical Preservation Statutes, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 9, sections 26-27(D); real property statutes. Mass Ann. Laws Ch. 184, sections 31-32; statutes governing State forests and parks, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 132, sections 40-46; of the Wetlands Protection Act Ch. 131, sections 40-46; statutes and rules governing dredging permits, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 21A; section 14, 310 CMR 9.01the Massachusetts Hazardous Waste Management Act Ch. 21C, sections 1-14; the Massachusetts Clean Water Act Ch. 21, sections 26-53; statutes governing the construction of roads, drains, or ditches, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 252, Sections 15-18; statutes governing drilling or removal of sand or any minerals, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 132A, Sections 13-181 and statutes governing use, storage, and handling of explosives, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 148, Sections 9-19.

(e) The Secretary shall provide for coordination of review and issuance of a coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation permit with the review and issuance of other Federal and State permits listed in this subpart and part 773 of this chapter.
