
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter G - Filing and Other Administrative Requirements
#### PART 44 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR PETITIONS FOR MODIFICATION OF MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart B - Initial Procedure for Petitions for Modification
###### ยง 44.11 Contents of petition.

(a) A petition for modification filed pursuant to ยง 44.10 shall contain:

(1) The name and address of the petitioner.

(2) The mailing address and mine identification number of the mine or mines affected.

(3) The mandatory safety standard to which the petition is directed.

(4) A concise statement of the modification requested, and whether the petitioner proposes to establish an alternate method in lieu of the mandatory safety standard or alleges that application of the standard will result in diminution of safety to the miners affected or requests relief based on both grounds.

(5) A detailed statement of the facts the petitioner would show to establish the grounds upon which it is claimed a modification is warranted.

(6) Identification of any representative of the miners at the affected mine, if the petitioner is a mine operator.

(b) A petition for modification shall not include a request for modification of the application of more than one mandatory safety standard. A petition for modification shall not request relief for more than one operator. However, an operator may file a petition for modification pertaining to more than one mine where it can be shown that identical issues of law and fact exist as to the petition for each mine.
