
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 933 - NORTH CAROLINA
##### § 933.700 North Carolina Federal program.

(a) This part contains all rules that are applicable to surface coal mining operations in North Carolina which have been adopted under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977.

(b) The rules in this part cross-reference pertinent parts of the permanent program regulations in this chapter. The full text of a rule is in the permanent program rule cited under the relevant section of the North Carolina Federal program.

(c) The rules in this part apply to all surface coal mining operations in North Carolina conducted on non-Federal and non-Indian lands. The rules in Subchapter D of this chapter apply to operations on Federal lands in North Carolina.

(d) The information collection requirements contained in this part do not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 because there are fewer than ten respondents annually.

(e) The following provisions of North Carolina laws and regulations provide, where applicable, for more stringent environmental control and regulation of some aspects of surface coal mining operations than do the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this chapter. Therefore, pursuant to section 505(b) of the Act, they shall not be construed to be inconsistent with the Act unless in a particular instance the rules in this chapter are found by OSM to establish more stringent environmental controls.

(1) North Carolina General Statute (NCGS) 74-51, concerning conditions under which a mining permit may be granted, authorized the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community Development to deny a permit for a mining operation which will have a significantly adverse effect on the purposes of a publicly owned park, forest, or recreation area and may condition permit approval on a requirement of visual screening, vegetative or otherwise, so as to screen the view of the operation from public highways, public parks, or residential areas where the Department finds such screening to be feasible and desirable, or determines that such screening measures are either not feasible or not desirable.

(2) North Carolina mining laws and regulations apply to mining operations affecting an area greater than one acre. To the extent that North Carolina mining law and regulations cited in paragraph (f) of this section apply to coal mining operations not regulated by the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, they are not preempted by this Federal program for North Carolina.

(3) North Carolina Dam Safety Law of 1967, North Carolina General Statutes (NCGS) 143-215.23 through 143-215.37.

(4) Geophysical Exploration regulations, Title 15, North Carolina Administrative Code, Subchapter 5C, applies to any coal exploration involving the use of explosives.

(f) The following are North Carolina laws and regulations that generally interfere with the achievement of the purposes and requirements of the Act and are, in accordance with section 504(g) of the Act, preempted and superseded to the extent that they regulate coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation operations regulated by the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act. Other North Carolina laws may interfere with the achievement of the proposes of goals of the Act in an individual situation, and may be preempted and superseded as they affect a particular coal exploration or surface mining operation by publication of the notice to that effect in the

(1) North Carolina Mining Act of 1971, as amended, NCGS 74-46 through 74-68, except to the extent that the Mining Act is preserved as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Title 15, North Carolina Administrative Code, Subchapters 5A, 5B, and 5F Mining and Mineral Resources, except to the extent that those regulations are preserved as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) The Secretary may grant a limited variance from the performance standards of §§ 933.815 through 933.828 of this part if the applicant for coal exploration approval or a surface mining permit submitted pursuant to §§ 933.772 through 933.785 demonstrates in the application that: (1) Such variance is necessary because of the unique nature of North Carolina's terrain, climate, biological, chemical, or other relevant physical conditions; and (2) the proposed alternative will achieve equal or greater environmental protection than does the performance requirement from which the variance is requested.
