
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 933 - NORTH CAROLINA
##### ยง 933.773 Requirements for permits and permit processing.
###### Requirements for Permits and Permit Processing,

(a) Part 773 of this chapter,shall apply to any person who applies for a permit for surface coal mining and reclamation operations.

(b) In addition to the requirements of part 773, the following permit application review procedures shall apply:

(1) Any person applying for a permit shall submit five copies of the application to the Office.

(2) The Office shall review an application for administrative completeness and acceptability for further review and shall notify the applicant in writing of the findings. The Office may:

(i) Reject a flagrantly deficient application, notifying the applicant of the findings;

(ii) Request additional information required for completeness stating specifically what information must be supplied and negotiate the date by which the information must be submitted; or

(iii) Judge the application administratively complete and acceptable for further review.

(3) Should the applicant not submit the information as required by ยง 912.773(b)(2)(ii) by the specified date, the office may reject the application. When the applicant submits the required information by the specified date, the Office shall review it and advise the applicant concerning its acceptability.

(4) When the application is judged administratively complete, the applicant shall be advised by the Office to file the public notice required by ยง 773.6 of this chapter.

(5) A representative of the Office shall visit the proposed permit area to determine whether the operation and reclamation plans are consistent with actual site conditions. The applicant will be notified in advance of the time of the visit. At the time of the visit, the applicant shall have the locations of the proposed permit boundaries, topsoil storage areas, sediment control structures, roads, and other significant features contained in the application marked by flags.

(c) In addition to the information required by subchapter G of this chapter, the Office may require an applicant to submit supplementary information to ensure compliance with applicable Federal laws and regulations other than the Act.

(d) The issuance of permits shall be coordinated, to the extent practicable, with the issuance of the following permits, leases and/or certificates required by the State of North Carolina; Water discharge permit (NCGS 143-215.1); water use permits in capacity use area (NCGS 143-215.5); an approval of dam construction (NCGS 143-215.108), an air pollution control permit (NCGS 143-215.26, Title 15, North Carolina Administrative Code, Subchapter 2K); air and water quality reporting systems (NCGS 143-215.63-143-215.69); a geophysical exploration permit (Title 15, North Carolina Administrative Code, Subchapter 5C); a development permit for operations in an area of environmental concern designated pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act (NCGS 113A-100-113A-128); a dredging or filing permit issued by the Department of Natural Resources and Community Development (NCGS 113-229); a permit for dumping of toxic substances (NCGS 14-284.2); compliance with any applicable land use regulations adopted in a soil conservation district (NCGS 139-9); and compliance with any county ordinance regarding explosives (NCGS 153A-128).

(e) No person shall be granted a permit to conduct exploration which results in the removal of more than 250 tons of coal or shall conduct surface coal mining unless that person has acquired all required permits, leases, and/or certificates listed in paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) The Secretary shall provide to the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community Development a copy of each decision to grant or deny a permit application.
