
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 937 - OREGON
##### ยง 937.764 Process for designating areas unsuitable for surface coal mining operations.
###### State Processes for Designating Areas Unsuitable for Surface Coal Mining Operations,,In re: Permanent Surface Mining Regulation Litigation

Part 764 of this chapter,pertaining to petitioning, initial processing, hearing requirements, decisions, data base and inventory systems, public information, and with the February 26, 1980, May 16, 1980, and August 15, 1980, opinions and orders of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ((Civ. Action No. 79-1144)).

(a) NDAC 69-05.2-25-0shall apply to any person who conducts or seeks to conduct coal exploration operations.

(b) The Office shall make every effort to act on an exploration application within 60 days of receipt or such longer time as may be reasonable under the circumstances. If additional time is needed, OSMRE shall notify the applicant that the application is being reviewed, but more time is necessary to complete such review, setting forth the reasons and the additional time that is needed.

(c) Where coal exploration is to occur on State lands or the minerals to be explored are owned by the State, a mineral lease issued by the Oregon Division of Lands authorizing the coal exploration is required to be filed with the permit application.
