
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 938 - PENNSYLVANIA
##### ยง 938.13 State statutory and regulatory provisions set aside.

(a) The following provisions of Pennsylvania's Bituminous Mine Subsidence and Land Conservation Act (BMSLCA) are inconsistent with the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA) and are superseded to the extent noted effective December 9, 2004.

(1) Section 5.1(b) (52 P.S. 1406.5a(b)) of BMSLCA is superseded to the extent that it would limit an operator's liability to restore or replace a water supply covered under section 720 of SMCRA.

(2) Section 5.2(g) (52 P.S. 1406.5b(g)) of BMSLCA is superseded to the extent that it would limit an operator's liability to restore or replace a water supply covered under section 720 of SMCRA.

(3) Section 5.2(h) (52 P.S. 1406.5b(h)) of BMSLCA is superseded to the extent it would preclude Pennsylvania from requiring the restoration or replacement of a water supply covered under section 720 of SMCRA.

(4) The portion of section 5.4(a)(3) (52 P.S. 1406.5d(a)(3)) of BMSLCA that states, "in place on the effective date of this section or on the date of first publication of the application for a Mine Activity Permit or a five-year renewal thereof for the operations in question and within the boundary of the entire mine as depicted in said application," is superseded to the extent it would limit an operator's liability for restoration of, or compensation for, subsidence damages to structures protected under section 720 of SMCRA that were in existence at the time of mining.

(5) Section 5.4(c) (52 P.S. 1406.5d(c)) of BMSLCA is superseded to the extent it limits an operator's liability for repair of, or compensation for, subsidence damage to a structure covered under section 720 of SMCRA.

(6) The portion of Section 5.5(b) (52 P.S. 1406.5e(b)) of BMSLCA that states, "All claims under this subsection shall be filed within two years of the date damage to the building occurred" is superseded to the extent that it would limit an operator's liability for restoration of, or compensation for, subsidence damages to a structure covered under section 720 of SMCRA.

(b) [Reserved]
