
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 939 - RHODE ISLAND
##### § 939.700 Rhode Island Federal program.

(a) This part contains all rules that are applicable to surface coal mining and reclamation operations in Rhode Island which have been adopted under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977.

(b) The rules in this part cross-reference pertinent parts of the permanent program regulations in this chapter. The full text of a rule is in the permanent program rule cited under the relevant section of the Rhode Island Federal program.

(c) The rules in this part apply to all surface coal mining and reclamation operations in Rhode Island conducted on non-Federal and non-Indian lands. The rules in subchapter D of this chapter apply to operations on Federal lands in Rhode Island.

(d) The information collection requirements contained in this part do not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 because there are fewer than ten respondents annually.

(e) The following provisions of Rhode Island laws provide, where applicable, for more stringent environmental control and regulation of surface coal mining and reclamation operations than do the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this chapter. Therefore, pursuant to Section 505(b) of the Act, they shall not be construed to be inconsistent with the Act:

(1) R.I. General Laws Sections 23-19.1-1 to 23-19.1-22, regulating treatment, disposal, and transportation of hazardous wastes within the State of Rhode Island.

(2) R.I. General Laws Sections 46-12-1 to 46-12-37, controlling the pollution of any of the State's waterways.

(f) There are no Rhode Island laws that generally interfere with the achievement of the purposes and requirements of the Act and which must be superseded and preempted pursuant to Section 504(g). Some Rhode Island laws may in an individual situation interfere with the achievement of the purposes and requirements of the Act and may be preempted and superseded with respect to the performance standards of §§ 939.815 through 939.828 as they affect a particular coal exploration or surface mining operation by publication of a notice to that effect in the
