
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 942 - TENNESSEE
##### ยง 942.816 Performance standards - Surface mining activities.
###### Primary Roads.

(1)(i) Except for existing roads and where lesser grades are necessary to control site-specific conditions, the overall grades shall not exceed lv:10h (10 percent); the maximum pitch grade shall not exceed lv:6.5h (15 percent); and there shall be not more than three hundred (300) feet of pitch grade exceeding ten (10) percent within any consecutive one thousand (1,000) feet of primary roads. In no case shall there by any pitch grade over fifteen (15) percent.

(ii) Culvert spacing shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) feet on grades of zero (0) to three (3) percent, eight hundred (800) feet on grades of three (3) to six (6) percent, five hundred (500) feet on grades of six (6) to ten (10) percent, and three hundred (300) feet on grades of ten (10) percent or greater. Culverts shall be installed at closer intervals than the maximum in this part if required by the Office as appropriate for the erosive properties of the soil or to accommodate flow from small intersecting drainages. Culverts may be constructed at greater intervals than the maximum indicated in this part if approved by the Office upon a finding that greater spacing will not increase erosion.

(iii) Culverts shall be covered by compacted fill to a minimum depth of one foot.
