
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 942 - TENNESSEE
##### ยง 942.817 Performance standards - Underground mining activities.
###### Hydrologic balance: Siltation structures.

(d)In lieu of the requirements of ยง 817.46(c)(1)(ii)(A) of this chapter, sedimentation ponds shall provide a storage volume of no less than 0.2 acre feet per distributed acre draining into the basin. The Office may approve less sediment storage volumes equal to the sediment calculated to enter the pond between planned cleanout intervals upon submission and approval of a plan for removing sediment from the pond which includes a description of the equipment to be used. The minimum sediment storage volume shall be equal to 0.1 acre feet per disturbed acre.

(e) In lieu of the requirements of ยง 817.116 (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this chapter, the following revegetation success standards and sampling techniques shall be used by this Office.

(1) For areas developed for use as pasture or hay production, the ground cover shall be at least ninety percent (90%) and crop production shall be equal to or greater than the average county yield as stated by the Tennessee Crop Reporting Service for the county in which the permit area is located.

(2) For areas developed for use as cropland, crop production shall be equal to or greater than the average county yield as stated by the Tennessee Crop Reporting Service for the county in which the permit area is located. Adjustment for local yield variation within the county may be made for disease, pests, weather-induced variations, and differences in crop management practices.

(3) For areas developed for wildlife habitat, undeveloped land, recreation, or forestry, the stocking of woody plants must be at least equal to the rates specified in the approved reclamation plan. To minimize competition with woody plants, herbaceous ground cover should be limited to that necessary to control erosion and support the postmining land use. Seed mixes and seeding rates will be specified in the permit.

(i) Minimum stocking levels and planting arrangements shall be specified by the Office on the basis of local and regional conditions and after consultation with the State agencies responsible for the administration of forestry and wildlife programs.

(ii) Trees and shrubs that will be used in determining the success of stocking and the adequacy of plant arrangement shall have utility for the approved postmining land use. At the time of bond release, such trees and shrubs shall be healthy, and at least eighty percent (80%) shall have been in place for at least three growing seasons. No trees and shrubs in place for less than two growing seasons shall be counted in determining stocking adequacy.

(iii) Vegetative ground cover shall not be less than that required to achieve the approved postmining land use.

(4) Bare areas shall not exceed one-sixteenth (1/16) acre in size and total not more than ten percent (10%) of the area seeded, except for areas developed for wildlife habitat, undeveloped land, recreation, or forestry.

(5) Distribution of woody plants within the permit area shall be consistent with the post-mining land use.

(6) Sampling techniques for measuring woody plant stocking and ground cover shall be in accordance with techniques approved by the Office. Actual crop yields shall be used to determine production.
