
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter VII - Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter T - Programs for the Conduct of Surface Mining Operations Within Each State
#### PART 947 - WASHINGTON
##### ยง 947.773 Requirements for permits and permit processing.
###### Requirements for Permits and Permit Processing,

(a) Part 773 of this chapter,shall apply to any person who applies for a permit for surface coal mining and reclamation operations.

(b) In addition to the requirements of part 773, the following permit application review procedures shall apply:

(1) Any person applying for a permit shall submit five copies of the application to the Office.

(2) The Office shall review an application for administrative completeness and acceptability for further review and shall notify the applicant in writing of the findings. The Office may:

(i) Reject a flagrantly deficient application, notifying the application of the findings:

(ii) Request additional information required for completeness stating specifically what information must be supplied and negotiate the date by which the information must be submitted; or

(iii) Judge the application administratively complete and acceptable for further review.

(3) Should the applicant not submit the information as required by ยง 947.773(b)(2)(ii) by the specified date, the Office may reject the application. When the applicant submits the required information by the specified date, the Office shall review it and advise the applicant concerning its acceptability.

(4) When the applicant is judged administratively complete, the applicant shall be advised by the Office to file the public notice required by ยง 773.6 of this chapter.

(5) A representative of the Office shall visit the proposed permit area to determine whether the operation and reclamation plans are consistent with actual site conditions. The applicant will be notified in advance of the time of the visit. At the time of the visit, the applicant shall have the locations of the proposed permit boundaries, topsoil storage areas, sediment control structures, roads, and other significant features contained in the application marked by flags.

(c) In addition to the information required by subchapter G of this chapter, the Office may require an applicant to submit supplementary information to ensure compliance with applicable Federal laws and regulations other than the Act.

(d) The Secretary shall coordinate, to the extent practicable, his responsibilities under the following Federal laws with the relevant Washington State laws to avoid duplication:

(e) The Secretary shall coordinate the SMCRA permit with appropriate State and regional or local agencies to the extent possible, to avoid duplication with the following state and regional or local regulations:

(1) Department of Ecology:

(2) Department of Natural Resources:

(3) Regional Air Pollution Control Agencies:

(4) Department of Fisheries:

(5) Department of Game:

(6) Department of Social Health Services:

(7) Department of Labor and Industries:

(8) Cities and Counties:

(f) Where applicable, no person shall conduct coal exploration operations which result in the removal of more than 250 tons in one location or surface coal mining and reclamation operations without first obtaining permits required by the State of Washington.

(g) The Secretary shall provide a copy of the decision to grant or deny a permit application to the Washington Department of Natural Resources, the Department of Ecology and to the County Department of Planning, if any, in which the operation is located.
