
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter G - Filing and Other Administrative Requirements
#### PART 44 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR PETITIONS FOR MODIFICATION OF MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart C - Hearings
###### ยง 44.26 Subpoenas; witness fees.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the presiding administrative law judge, as appropriate, shall issue subpoenas upon written application of a party requiring attendance of witnesses and production of relevant papers, books, documents, or tangible things in their possession and under their control. A subpoena may be served by any person who is not a party and is not less than 18 years of age, and the original subpoena bearing a certificate of service shall be filed with the administrative law judge. A witness may be required to attend a deposition or hearing at a place not more than 100 miles from the place of service.

(b) If a party's written application for subpoena is submitted 3 working days or less before the hearing to which it relates, a subpoena shall issue at the discretion of the Chief Administrative Law Judge or presiding administrative law judge, as appropriate.

(c) Any person served with a subpoena may move in writing to revoke or modify the subpoena. All motions to revoke or modify shall be served on the party at whose request the subpoena was issued. The administrative law judge shall revoke or modify the subpoena if in his opinion the evidence required to be produced does not relate to any matter under investigation or in question in the proceedings; the subpoena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence required to be produced; or if for any other reason, sufficient in law, the subpoena is found to be invalid or unreasonable. The administrative law judge shall make a simple statement of procedural or other grounds for the ruling on the motion to revoke or modify. The motion to revoke or modify, any answer filed thereto, and any ruling thereon shall become a part of the record.

(d) Witnesses subpoenaed by any party shall be paid the same fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the District Courts of the United States. The fees shall be paid by the party at whose instance the witness appears.
