
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1202 - ROYALTIES
##### Subpart F - Coal
###### ยง 1202.251 What coal is subject to royalties?

(a) All coal (except coal unavoidably lost as BLM determines under 43 CFR part 3400) from a Federal or Indian lease is subject to royalty. This includes coal used, sold, or otherwise disposed of by you on or off of the lease.

(b) If you receive compensation for unavoidably lost coal through insurance coverage or other arrangements, you must pay royalties at the rate specified in the lease on the amount of compensation that you receive for the coal. No royalty is due on insurance compensation that you received for other losses.

(c) If you rework waste piles or slurry ponds to recover coal, you must pay royalty at the rate specified in the lease at the time when you use, sell, or otherwise finally dispose of the recovered coal.

(1) The applicable royalty rate depends on the production method that you used to initially mine the coal contained in the waste pile or slurry pond (such as an underground mining method or a surface mining method).

(2) You must allocate coal in waste pits or slurry ponds that you initially mined from Federal or Indian leases to those Federal or Indian leases regardless of whether it is stored on Federal or Indian lands.

(3) You must maintain accurate records demonstrating how to allocate the coal in the waste pit or slurry pond to each individual Federal or Indian coal lease.
