
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1202 - ROYALTIES
##### Subpart H - Geothermal Resources
###### ยง 1202.353 Measurement standards for reporting and paying royalties and direct use fees.

(a) For geothermal resources used to generate electricity, you must report the quantity on which royalty is due on Form ONRR-2014 (Report of Sales and Royalty Remittance) as follows:

(1) For geothermal resources for which royalty is calculated under ยง 1206.352(a), you must report quantities in:

(i) Thousands of pounds to the nearest whole thousand pounds if the contract for the geothermal resources specifies delivery in terms of weight; or

(ii) Millions of Btu to the nearest whole million Btu if the sales contract for the geothermal resources specifies delivery in terms of heat or thermal energy.

(2) For geothermal resources for which royalty is calculated under ยง 1206.352(b), you must report the quantities in kilowatt-hours to the nearest whole kilowatt-hour.

(b) For geothermal resources used in direct use processes, you must report the quantity on which a royalty or direct use fee is due on Form ONRR-2014 in:

(1) Millions of Btu to the nearest whole million Btu if valuation is in terms of heat or thermal energy used or displaced;

(2) Millions of gallons to the nearest million gallons of geothermal fluid produced if valuation or fee calculation is in terms of volume;

(3) Millions of pounds to the nearest million pounds of geothermal fluid produced if valuation or fee calculation is in terms of mass; or

(4) Any other measurement unit ONRR approves for valuation and reporting purposes.

(c) For byproducts, you must report the quantity on which royalty is due on Form ONRR-2014 consistent with ONRR-established reporting standards.

(d) For commercially demineralized water, you must report the quantity on which royalty is due on Form ONRR-2014 in hundreds of gallons to the nearest hundred gallons.

(e) You need not report the quality of geothermal resources, including byproducts, to ONRR. However, you must maintain quality measurements for audit purposes. Quality measurements include, but are not limited to:

(1) Temperatures and chemical analyses for fluid geothermal resources; and

(2) Chemical analyses, weight percent, or other purity measurements for byproducts.
