
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1204 - ALTERNATIVES FOR MARGINAL PROPERTIES
##### Subpart C - Accounting and Auditing Relief
###### § 1204.206 What will ONRR do when it receives my request for other relief?

When ONRR receives your request for other relief under § 1204.205(b), it will notify you in writing as follows:

(a) If your request for relief is complete, ONRR may either approve, deny, or modify your request in writing after consultation with any State required under § 1204.207(b).

(1) If ONRR approves your request for relief, ONRR will notify you of the effective date of your accounting or auditing relief and other specifics of the relief approved.

(2) If ONRR denies your relief request, ONRR will notify you of the reasons for denial and your appeal rights under § 1204.6.

(3) If ONRR modifies your relief request, ONRR will notify you of the modifications.

(i) You have 60 days from your receipt of ONRR's notice to either accept or reject any modification(s) in writing.

(ii) If you reject the modification(s) or fail to respond to ONRR's notice, ONRR will deny your relief request. ONRR will notify you in writing of the reasons for denial and your appeal rights under § 1204.6.

(b) If your request for relief is not complete, ONRR will notify you in writing that your request is incomplete and identify any missing information.

(1) You must submit the missing information within 60 days of your receipt of ONRR's notice that your request is incomplete.

(2) After you submit all required information, ONRR may approve, deny, or modify your request for relief under paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) If you do not submit all required information within 60 days of your receipt of ONRR's notice that your request is incomplete, ONRR will deny your relief request. ONRR will notify you in writing of the reasons for denial and your appeal rights under § 1204.6.

(4) You may submit a new request for relief under this subpart at any time after ONRR returns your incomplete request.
