
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1204 - ALTERNATIVES FOR MARGINAL PROPERTIES
##### Subpart C - Accounting and Auditing Relief
###### ยง 1204.208 May a State decide that it will or will not allow one or both of the relief options under this subpart?

(a) A State may decide in advance that it will or will not allow one or both of the relief options specified in this subpart for a particular calendar year. If a State decides that it will not consent to one or both of the relief options, ONRR will not grant that type of marginal property relief.

(b) To help States decide whether to allow one or both of the relief options specified in this subpart, for each calendar year ONRR will send States a Report of Marginal Properties by October 1 preceding the calendar year.

(c) If a State decides under paragraph (a) of this section that it will or will not allow one or both of the relief options in this subpart during the next calendar year, within 30 days of the State's receipt of the Report of Marginal Properties under paragraph (b) of this section, the State must:

(1) Notify the Director for Office of Natural Resources Revenue, in writing, of its intent to allow or not allow one or both of the relief options under this subpart; and

(2) Specify in its notice of intent to ONRR which relief option(s) it will allow or not allow.

(d) If a State decides in advance under paragraph (a) of this section that it will not allow one or both of the relief options specified in this subpart, it may decide for subsequent calendar years that it will allow one or both of the relief options in this subpart. If it so decides, within 30 days of the State's receipt of the Report of Marginal Properties under paragraph (b) of this section, the State must:

(1) Notify the Director for Office of Natural Resources Revenue, in writing, of its intent to allow one or both of the relief options allowed under this subpart during the next calendar year; and

(2) Specify in its notice of intent to ONRR which relief option(s) it will allow.

(e) If a State does not notify ONRR under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the State will be deemed to have decided not to allow either of the relief options under this subpart for the next calendar year.

(f) ONRR will publish a notice of the State's intent to allow or not allow certain relief options under this section in theno later than 30 days before the beginning of the applicable calendar year.
