
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart B - Indian Oil
###### ยง 1206.50 What is the purpose of this subpart?

(a) This subpart applies to all oil produced from Indian (Tribal and allotted) oil and gas leases (except leases on the Osage Indian Reservation, Osage County, Oklahoma). This subpart does not apply to Federal leases, including Federal leases for which revenues are shared with Alaska Native Corporations. This subpart:

(1) Explains how you as a lessee must calculate the value of production for royalty purposes consistent with Indian mineral leasing laws, other applicable laws, and lease terms.

(2) Ensures the United States discharges its trust responsibilities for administering Indian oil and gas leases under the governing Indian mineral leasing laws, treaties, and lease terms.

(b) If you dispose of or report production on behalf of a lessee, the terms "you" and "your" in this subpart refer to you and not to the lessee. In this circumstance, you must determine and report royalty value for the lessee's oil by applying the rules in this subpart to your disposition of the lessee's oil.

(c) If the regulations in this subpart are inconsistent with:

(1) A Federal statute;

(2) A settlement agreement between the United States, Indian lessor, and a lessee resulting from administrative or judicial litigation;

(3) A written agreement between the Indian lessor, lessee, and the ONRR Director establishing a method to determine the value of production from any lease that ONRR expects at least would approximate the value established under this subpart; or

(4) An express provision of an oil and gas lease subject to this subpart then the statute, settlement agreement, written agreement, or lease provision will govern to the extent of the inconsistency.

(d) ONRR or Indian Tribes, which have a cooperative agreement with ONRR to audit under 30 U.S.C. 1732, may audit, or perform other compliance reviews, and require a lessee to adjust royalty payments and reports.
