
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart B - Indian Oil
###### § 1206.52 How do I calculate royalty value for oil that I or my affiliate sell(s) or exchange(s) under an arm's-length contract?

(a) The value of production for royalty purposes for your lease is the higher of either the value determined under this section or the IBMP value calculated under § 1206.54. The value of oil under this section for royalty purposes is the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate under the arm's-length contract, less applicable allowances determined under § 1206.56 or § 1206.57. You must use this paragraph (a) to value oil when:

(1) You sell under an arm's-length sales contract.

(2) You sell or transfer to your affiliate or another person under a non-arm's-length contract and that affiliate or person, or another affiliate of either of them, then sells the oil under an arm's-length contract.

(b) If you have multiple arm's-length contracts to sell oil produced from a lease that is valued under paragraph (a) of this section, the value of the oil is the higher of the volume-weighted average of the values established under this section for all contracts for the sale of oil produced from that lease or the IBMP value calculated under § 1206.54.

(c) If ONRR determines that the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate does not reflect the reasonable value of the production due to either:

(1) Misconduct by or between the parties to the arm's-length contract; or

(2) Breach of your duty to market the oil for the mutual benefit of yourself and the lessor, ONRR will establish a value based on other relevant matters.

(i) ONRR will not use this provision to simply substitute its judgment of the market value of the oil for the proceeds received by the seller under an arm's-length sales contract.

(ii) The fact that the price received by the seller under an arm's-length contract is less than other measures of market price is insufficient to establish breach of the duty to market unless ONRR finds additional evidence that the seller acted unreasonably or in bad faith in the sale of oil produced from the lease.

(d) You have the burden of demonstrating that your or your affiliate's contract is arm's-length.

(e) ONRR may require you to certify that the provisions in your or your affiliate's contract include all of the consideration that the buyer paid to you or your affiliate, either directly or indirectly, for the oil.

(f) You must base value on the highest price that you or your affiliate can receive through legally enforceable claims under the oil sales contract.

(1) Absent contract revision or amendment, if you or your affiliate fail(s) to take proper or timely action to receive prices or benefits to which you or your affiliate are entitled, you must pay royalty based upon that obtainable price or benefit.

(2) If you or your affiliate make timely application for a price increase or benefit allowed under your or your affiliate's contract-but the purchaser refuses-and you or your affiliate take reasonable documented measures to force purchaser compliance, you will not owe additional royalties unless or until you or your affiliate receive additional monies or consideration resulting from the price increase. You may not construe this paragraph (f)(2) to permit you to avoid your royalty payment obligation in situations where a purchaser fails to pay, in whole or in part, or in a timely manner, for a quantity of oil.

(g)(1) You or your affiliate must make all contracts, contract revisions, or amendments in writing, and all parties to the contract must sign the contract, contract revisions, or amendments.
