
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart B - Indian Oil
###### § 1206.52 How do I calculate royalty value for oil that I or my affiliate sell(s) or exchange(s) under an arm's-length contract?
####### Code of Federal Regulations

(2) This provision applies notwithstanding any other provisions in this title 30 of theto the contrary.

(h) If you or your affiliate enter(s) into an arm's-length exchange agreement, or multiple sequential arm's-length exchange agreements, then you must value your oil under this paragraph (h).

(1) If you or your affiliate exchange(s) oil at arm's length for WTI or equivalent oil at Cushing, Oklahoma, you must value the oil using the NYMEX price, adjusted for applicable location and quality differentials under paragraph (h)(3) of this section and any transportation costs under paragraph (h)(4) of this section and §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58.

(2) If you do not exchange oil for WTI or equivalent oil at Cushing, but exchange it at arm's length for oil at another location and following the arm's-length exchange(s) you or your affiliate sell(s) the oil received in the exchange(s) under an arm's-length contract, then you must use the gross proceeds under your or your affiliate's arm's-length sales contract after the exchange(s) occur(s), adjusted for applicable location and quality differentials under paragraph (h)(3) of this section and any transportation costs under paragraph (h)(4) of this section and §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58.

(3) You must adjust your gross proceeds for any location or quality differential, or other adjustments, that you received or paid under the arm's-length exchange agreement(s). If ONRR determines that any exchange agreement does not reflect reasonable location or quality differentials, ONRR may adjust the differentials that you used based on relevant information. You may not otherwise use the price or differential specified in an arm's-length exchange agreement to value your production.

(4) If you value oil under this paragraph (h), ONRR will allow a deduction, under §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58, for the reasonable, actual costs to transport the oil:

(i) From the lease to a point where oil is given in exchange.

(ii) If oil is not exchanged to Cushing, Oklahoma, from the point where oil is received in exchange to the point where the oil received in exchange is sold.

(5) If you or your affiliate exchange(s) your oil at arm's length, and neither paragraph (h)(1) nor (2) of this section applies, ONRR will establish a value for the oil based on relevant matters. After ONRR establishes the value, you must report and pay royalties and any late payment interest owed based on that value.
