
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart B - Indian Oil
###### § 1206.53 How do I calculate royalty value for oil that I or my affiliate do(es) not sell under an arm's-length contract?

(a) The value of production for royalty purposes for your lease is the higher of either the value determined under this section or the IBMP value calculated under § 1206.54. The unit value of your oil not sold under an arm's-length contract under this section for royalty purposes is the volume-weighted average of the gross proceeds paid or received by you or your affiliate, including your refining affiliate, for purchases or sales under arm's-length contracts.

(1) When calculating that unit value, use only purchases or sales of other like-quality oil produced from the field (or the same area if you do not have sufficient arm's-length purchases or sales of oil produced from the field) during the production month.

(2) You may adjust the gross proceeds determined under paragraph (a) of this section for transportation costs under paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58 before including those proceeds in the volume-weighted average calculation.

(3) If you have purchases away from the field(s) and cannot calculate a price in the field because you cannot determine the seller's cost of transportation that would be allowed under paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 1206.56 and 1206.57 or § 1206.58, you must not include those purchases in your volume-weighted average calculation.

(b) Before calculating the volume-weighted average, you must normalize the quality of the oil in your or your affiliate's arm's-length purchases or sales to the same gravity as that of the oil produced from the lease. Use applicable gravity adjustment tables for the field (or the same general area for like-quality oil if you do not have gravity adjustment tables for the specific field) to normalize for gravity, as shown in the example below.
