
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart B - Indian Oil
###### ยง 1206.54 How do I fulfill the lease provision regarding valuing production on the basis of the major portion of like-quality oil?
####### www.onrr.gov

(d) ONRR will calculate the initial LCTD for each designated area (the same designated areas posted on its Web site at) and crude oil type using the following formula:

(1) For the first full production month after July 1, 2015, ONRR will calculate the monthly Major Portion Prices using data reported on the Form ONRR-2014 for the previous 12 production months prior to July 1, 2015 (Previous Twelve Months). To the extent that ONRR does not have data on the Form ONRR-2014 regarding the crude oil type for the entire previous twelve months, ONRR will assume the crude oil type is the same for those months for which ONRR does not have data as the months for which the crude oil type was reported on the Form ONRR-2014 for the same leases and/or agreements.

(i) ONRR will array the calculated prices net of transportation by month from highest to lowest price for each designated area and crude oil type. For each month, ONRR will calculate the Major Portion Price as that price at which 25 percent plus 1 barrel (by volume) of the oil (starting from the highest) is sold.

(ii) To calculate the average of the monthly Major Portion Prices for the previous 12 months, ONRR will add the monthly Major Portion Prices calculated in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section and divide by 12.

(2) For every month following the first full production month after July 1, 2015, ONRR will monitor the LCTD using data reported on the Form ONRR-2014 for the month ending two months before the current production month.

(i) ONRR will use the oil sales volume that lessees report on Form ONRR-2014 to monitor and, if necessary, to modify the LCTD used in the IBMP value.

(ii) ONRR will monitor oil sales volumes not reported under the sales type code OINX, as provided in 30 CFR 1210.61(a) and (b), on the Form ONRR-2014 on a monthly basis by designated area and crude oil type.

(iii) If the monthly oil sales volumes not reported under the sales type code OINX varies more than +/- 3 percent from 25 percent of the total reported oil sales volume for the month, then ONRR will revise the LCTD prospectively starting with the following month.

(A) If monthly oil sales volumes not reported under the sales type code OINX on Form ONRR-2014 by the designated area and crude oil type fall below 22 percent, ONRR will increase the LCTD by 10 percent every month until the monthly oil sales volumes reported under the sales type code for gross proceeds on Form ONRR-2014 fall within the +/- 3 percent range. In Example 1, assume that the IBMP value is $81.06 and the LCTD for the designated area is 14.28 percent. In the table below, the Percent of Volume not reported as OINX is less than 22 percent, which triggers a modification to the LCTD. ONRR will adjust the LCTD upward by 10 percent (14.28 percent x 1.10). Therefore, for the next month, the LCTD will be 15.71 percent. In the following month, the IBMP value will equal the next month's NYMEX CMA multiplied by (1 - 0.1571). ONRR will continue to make adjustments in subsequent months until monthly sales volumes not reported as OINX fall within 22-28 percent of the total monthly sales volume.

(B) If monthly oil sales volumes not reported under the sales type code OINX on Form ONRR-2014 by designated area and crude oil type exceed 28 percent, then ONRR will decrease the LCTD by 10 percent every month until the monthly oil sales volumes reported under the sales type code for gross proceeds on Form ONRR-2014 fall within the +/- 3 percent range. In Example 2, assume that the IBMP value is $81.06 and the LCTD is 14.28 percent. As noted in the table below, however, the Percent of Volume not reported as OINX is 32.69 percent, exceeding the 28 percent threshold, which triggers a modification to the LCTD. ONRR will adjust the LCTD downward by 10 percent (14.28 percent x 0.90). Therefore, for the next month, the LCTD will be 12.85 percent. In the following month, the IBMP will equal the next month's NYMEX CMA multiplied by (1-0.1285). ONRR will continue to make adjustments in subsequent months until monthly sales volumes reported as ARMS fall within 22-28 percent of the total monthly sales volume.

(e) In designated areas where there is insufficient data reported to ONRR on Form ONRR-2014 to determine a differential for a specific crude oil type, ONRR will use its discretion to determine an appropriate IBMP value.
