
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart B - Indian Oil
###### ยง 1206.58 How do I determine a transportation allowance if I have a non-arm's-length transportation contract or have no contract?
####### Reporting requirements.

(b)(1) If ONRR requests, you must submit all data used to determine your transportation allowance. You must provide the data within a reasonable period of time that ONRR will determine.

(2) You must report transportation allowances as a separate entry on Form ONRR-2014. ONRR may approve a different reporting procedure on allotted leases and with lessor approval on Tribal leases.

(3) ONRR may require you to submit all of the data that you used to prepare your Form ONRR-4110. You must submit the data within a reasonable period of time that ONRR determines.

(4) ONRR may establish, in appropriate circumstances, reporting requirements that are different from the requirements of this section.

(5) If you are authorized to use your FERC-approved tariff as your transportation cost under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, you must follow the reporting requirements of ยง 1206.57(b).

(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, for other than arm's-length contracts, no cost will be allowed for oil transportation that results from payments (either volumetric or for value) for actual or theoretical losses. This section does not apply when the transportation allowance is based upon a FERC or State regulatory agency approved tariff.

(d) The provisions of this section will apply to determine transportation costs when establishing value using a netback valuation procedure or any other procedure that requires deduction of transportation costs.
