
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart B - Indian Oil
###### ยง 1206.62 How do I request a value determination?

(a) You may request a value determination from ONRR regarding any oil produced. Your request must:

(1) Be in writing.

(2) Identify specifically all leases involved, all interest owners of those leases, the designee(s), and the operator(s) for those leases.

(3) Completely explain all relevant facts. You must inform ONRR of any changes to relevant facts that occur before we respond to your request.

(4) Include copies of all relevant documents.

(5) Provide your analysis of the issue(s), including citations to all relevant precedents (including adverse precedents).

(6) Suggest your proposed valuation method.

(b) In response to your request, ONRR may:

(1) Request that the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs issue a valuation determination.

(2) Decide that ONRR will issue guidance.

(3) Inform you in writing that ONRR will not provide a determination or guidance. Situations in which ONRR typically will not provide any determination or guidance include, but are not limited to:

(i) Requests for guidance on hypothetical situations.

(ii) Matters that are the subject of pending litigation or administrative appeals.

(c)(1) A value determination that the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs signs is binding on both you and ONRR until the Assistant Secretary modifies or rescinds it.

(2) After the Assistant Secretary issues a value determination, you must make any adjustments to royalty payments that follow from the determination, and, if you owe additional royalties, you must pay the additional royalties due plus late payment interest calculated under ยง 1218.54 of this chapter.

(3) A value determination that the Assistant Secretary signs is the final action of the Department and is subject to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 701-706.

(d) Guidance that ONRR issues is not binding on ONRR, the Indian lessor, or you with respect to the specific situation addressed in the guidance.

(1) Guidance and ONRR's decision whether or not to issue guidance or request an Assistant Secretary determination, or neither, under paragraph (b) of this section, are not appealable decisions or orders under 30 CFR part 1290.

(2) If you receive an order requiring you to pay royalty on the same basis as the guidance, you may appeal that order under 30 CFR part 1290.

(e) ONRR or the Assistant Secretary may use any of the applicable valuation criteria in this subpart to provide guidance or make a determination.

(f) A change in an applicable statute or regulation on which ONRR or the Assistant Secretary based any determination or guidance takes precedence over the determination or guidance, regardless of whether ONRR or the Assistant Secretary modifies or rescinds the determination or guidance.

(g) ONRR or the Assistant Secretary generally will not retroactively modify or rescind a value determination issued under paragraph (d) of this section, unless:

(1) There was a misstatement or omission of material facts.

(2) The facts subsequently developed are materially different from the facts on which the guidance was based.

(h) ONRR may make requests and replies under this section available to the public, subject to the confidentiality requirements under ยง 1206.65.
