
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart C - Federal Oil
###### ยง 1206.100 What is the purpose of this subpart?

(a) This subpart applies to all oil produced from Federal oil and gas leases onshore and on the OCS. It explains how you, as a lessee, must calculate the value of production for royalty purposes consistent with mineral leasing laws, other applicable laws, and lease terms.

(b) If you are a designee and if you dispose of production on behalf of a lessee, the terms "you" and "your" in this subpart refer to you and not to the lessee. In this circumstance, you must determine and report royalty value for the lessee's oil by applying the rules in this subpart to your disposition of the lessee's oil.

(c) If you are a designee and only report for a lessee and do not dispose of the lessee's production, references to "you" and "your" in this subpart refer to the lessee and not the designee. In this circumstance, you as a designee must determine and report royalty value for the lessee's oil by applying the rules in this subpart to the lessee's disposition of its oil.

(d) If the regulations in this subpart are inconsistent with a(an): Federal statute; settlement agreement between the United States and a lessee resulting from administrative or judicial litigation; written agreement between the lessee and ONRR's Director establishing a method to determine the value of production from any lease that ONRR expects would at least approximate the value established under this subpart; express provision of an oil and gas lease subject to this subpart, then the statute, settlement agreement, written agreement, or lease provision will govern to the extent of the inconsistency.

(e) ONRR may audit, monitor, or review and adjust all royalty payments.
