
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart C - Federal Oil
###### § 1206.101 How do I calculate royalty value for oil I or my affiliate sell(s) under an arm's-length contract?

(a) The value of oil under this section for royalty purposes is the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate under the arm's-length contract less applicable allowances determined under § 1206.111 or § 1206.112. This value does not apply if you exercise an option to use a different value provided in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2)(i) of this section or if ONRR decides to value your oil under § 1206.105. You must use this paragraph (a) to value oil when:

(1) You sell under an arm's-length sales contract; OR

(2) You sell or transfer to your affiliate or another person under a non-arm's-length contract and that affiliate or person, or another affiliate of either of them, then sells the oil under an arm's-length contract, unless you exercise the option provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.

(b) If you have multiple arm's-length contracts to sell oil produced from a lease that is valued under paragraph (a) of this section, the value of the oil is the volume-weighted average of the values established under this section for each contract for the sale of oil produced from that lease.

(c)(1) If you enter into an arm's-length exchange agreement, or multiple sequential arm's-length exchange agreements, and following the exchange(s) that you or your affiliate sell(s) the oil received in the exchange(s) under an arm's-length contract, then you may use either paragraph (a) of this section or § 1206.102 to value your production for royalty purposes. If you fail to make the election required under this paragraph, you may not make a retroactive election, and ONRR may decide your value under § 1206.105.

(i) If you use paragraph (a) of this section, your gross proceeds are the gross proceeds under your or your affiliate's arm's-length sales contract after the exchange(s) occur(s). You must adjust your gross proceeds for any location or quality differential, or other adjustments, that you received or paid under the arm's-length exchange agreement(s). If ONRR determines that any arm's-length exchange agreement does not reflect reasonable location or quality differentials, ONRR may decide your value under § 1206.105. You may not otherwise use the price or differential specified in an arm's-length exchange agreement to value your production.

(ii) When you elect under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to use paragraph (a) of this section or § 1206.102, you must make the same election for all of your production from the same unit, communitization agreement, or lease (if the lease is not part of a unit or communitization agreement) sold under arm's-length contracts following arm's-length exchange agreements. You may not change your election more often than once every two years.

(2)(i) If you sell or transfer your oil production to your affiliate, and that affiliate or another affiliate then sells the oil under an arm's-length contract, you may use either paragraph (a) of this section or § 1206.102 to value your production for royalty purposes.

(ii) When you elect under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section to use paragraph (a) of this section or § 1206.102, you must make the same election for all of your production from the same unit, communitization agreement, or lease (if the lease is not part of a unit or communitization agreement) that your affiliates resell at arm's-length. You may not change your election more often than once every two years.
