
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart C - Federal Oil
###### ยง 1206.102 How do I value oil not sold under an arm's-length contract?
####### Production from leases in the Rocky Mountain Region.

(b)This paragraph provides methods and options for valuing your production under different factual situations. You must consistently apply paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section to value all of your production from the same unit, communitization agreement, or lease (if the lease or a portion of the lease is not part of a unit or communitization agreement) that you cannot value under ยง 1206.101 or that you elect under ยง 1206.101(c)(1) to value under this section.

(1) You may elect to value your oil under either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section. After you select either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, you may not change to the other method more often than once every two years, unless the method you have been using is no longer applicable and you must apply the other paragraph. If you change methods, you must begin a new two-year period.

(2) Value is the volume-weighted average of the gross proceeds accruing to the seller under your or your affiliate's arm's-length contracts for the purchase or sale of production from the field or area during the production month.

(i) The total volume purchased or sold under those contracts must exceed 50 percent of your and your affiliate's production from both Federal and non-Federal leases in the same field or area during that month.

(ii) Before calculating the volume-weighted average, you must normalize the quality of the oil in your or your affiliate's arm's-length purchases or sales to the same gravity as that of the oil produced from the lease.

(3) Value is the NYMEX price (without the roll), adjusted for applicable location and quality differentials and transportation costs under ยง 1206.113.

(4) If you demonstrate to ONRR's satisfaction that paragraphs (b)(2) through (3) of this section result in an unreasonable value for your production as a result of circumstances regarding that production, ONRR's Director may establish an alternative valuation method.
