
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter G - Filing and Other Administrative Requirements
#### PART 44 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR PETITIONS FOR MODIFICATION OF MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS
##### Subpart E - Effect of Initial Decision
###### ยง 44.53 Amended modification.

(a) The Administrator may propose to revise the terms and conditions of a granted modification by issuing an amended proposed decision and order, along with a statement of reasons for the amended proposed decision and order, when one or both of the following occurs:

(1) A change in circumstances which originally supported the terms and conditions of the modification.

(2) The Administrator determines that findings which originally supported the terms and conditions of the modification are no longer valid.

(b) The Administrator's amended proposed decision and order shall be served upon all parties to the proceeding and shall become final upon the 30th day after service thereof, unless a request for hearing on the proposed amendments is filed under ยง 44.14. If a request for hearing is filed, the amended proposed decision and order shall be subject to all procedures of subparts C through E of this part as if it were a proposed decision and order of the Administrator issued in accordance with ยง 44.13. The original modification shall remain in effect until superseded by a final amended modification.

(c) In cases where the original decision and order was based upon an alternative method of achieving the result of the standard, the amended decision and order shall at all times provide to miners at the mine at least the same measure of protection afforded to the miners at the mine by such standard. In cases where the original decision and order was based upon a diminution of safety to the miners resulting from application of the standard at such time, the amended decision and order shall not reduce the protection afforded miners by the original decision and order.
