
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart C - Federal Oil
###### ยง 1206.113 What adjustments and transportation allowances apply when I value oil production from my lease using NYMEX prices or ANS spot prices?

This section applies when you use NYMEX prices or ANS spot prices to calculate the value of production under ยง 1206.102. As specified in this section, you must adjust the NYMEX price to reflect the difference in value between your lease and Cushing, Oklahoma, or adjust the ANS spot price to reflect the difference in value between your lease and the appropriate ONRR-recognized market center at which the ANS spot price is published (for example, Long Beach, California, or San Francisco, California). Paragraph (a) of this section explains how you adjust the value between the lease and the market center, and paragraph (b) of this section explains how you adjust the value between the market center and Cushing when you use NYMEX prices. Paragraph (c) of this section explains how adjustments may be made for quality differentials that are not accounted for through exchange agreements. Paragraph (d) of this section gives some examples. References in this section to "you" include your affiliates, as applicable.

(a) To adjust the value between the lease and the market center:

(1)(i) For oil that you exchange at arm's-length between your lease and the market center (or between any intermediate points between those locations), you must calculate a lease-to-market center differential by the applicable location and quality differentials derived from your arm's-length exchange agreement applicable to production during the production month.

(ii) For oil that you exchange between your lease and the market center (or between any intermediate points between those locations) under an exchange agreement that is not at arm's-length, you must obtain approval from ONRR for a location and quality differential. Until you obtain such approval, you may use the location and quality differential derived from that exchange agreement applicable to production during the production month. If ONRR prescribes a different differential, you must apply ONRR's differential to all periods for which you used your proposed differential. You must pay any additional royalties due resulting from using ONRR's differential, plus late payment interest from the original royalty due date, or you may report a credit for any overpaid royalties, plus interest, under 30 U.S.C. 1721(h).

(2) For oil that you transport between your lease and the market center (or between any intermediate points between those locations), you may take an allowance for the cost of transporting that oil between the relevant points, as determined under ยง 1206.111 or 1206.112, as applicable.

(3) If you transport or exchange at arm's-length (or both transport and exchange) at least 20 percent-but not all-of your oil produced from the lease to a market center, you must determine the adjustment between the lease and the market center for the oil that is not transported or exchanged (or both transported and exchanged) to or through a market center as follows:

(i) Determine the volume-weighted average of the lease-to-market center adjustment calculated under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section for the oil that you do transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) from your lease to a market center.

(ii) Use that volume-weighted average lease-to-market center adjustment as the adjustment for the oil that you do not transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) from your lease to a market center.

(4) If you transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) less than 20 percent of the crude oil produced from your lease between the lease and a market center, you must propose to ONRR an adjustment between the lease and the market center for the portion of the oil that you do not transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) to a market center. Until you obtain such approval, you may use your proposed adjustment. If ONRR prescribes a different adjustment, you must apply ONRR's adjustment to all periods for which you used your proposed adjustment. You must pay any additional royalties due resulting from using ONRR's adjustment, plus late payment interest from the original royalty due date, or you may report a credit for any overpaid royalties plus interest under 30 U.S.C. 1721(h).

(5) You may not both take a transportation allowance and use a location and quality adjustment or exchange differential for the same oil between the same points.

(b) For oil that you value using NYMEX prices, you must adjust the value between the market center and Cushing, Oklahoma, as follows:

(1) If you have arm's-length exchange agreements between the market center and Cushing under which you exchange to Cushing at least 20 percent of all of the oil that you own at the market center during the production month, you must use the volume-weighted average of the location and quality differentials from those agreements as the adjustment between the market center and Cushing for all of the oil that you produce from the leases during that production month for which that market center is used.

(2) If paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply, you must use the WTI differential published in an ONRR-approved publication for the market center nearest to your lease, for crude oil most similar in quality to your production, as the adjustment between the market center and Cushing. For example, for light sweet crude oil produced offshore of Louisiana, you must use the WTI differential for Light Louisiana Sweet crude oil at St. James, Louisiana. After you select an ONRR-approved publication, you may not select a different publication more often than once every two years, unless the publication you use is no longer published or ONRR revokes its approval of the publication. If you must change publications, you must begin a new two-year period.

(3) If neither paragraph (b)(1) nor (2) of this section applies, you may propose an alternative differential to ONRR. Until you obtain such approval, you may use your proposed differential. If ONRR prescribes a different differential, you must apply ONRR's differential to all periods for which you used your proposed differential. You must pay any additional royalties due resulting from using ONRR's differential, plus late payment interest from the original royalty due date, or you may report a credit for any overpaid royalties plus interest under 30 U.S.C. 1721(h).

(c)(1) If you adjust for location and quality differentials or for transportation costs under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you also must adjust the NYMEX price or ANS spot price for quality based on premiums or penalties determined by pipeline quality bank specifications at intermediate commingling points or at the market center if those points are downstream of the royalty measurement point that BSEE or BLM, as applicable, approve. You must make this adjustment only if, and to the extent that, such adjustments were not already included in the location and quality differentials determined from your arm's-length exchange agreements.

(2) If the quality of your oil, as adjusted, is still different from the quality of the representative crude oil at the market center after making the quality adjustments described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c)(1) of this section, you may make further gravity adjustments using posted price gravity tables. If quality bank adjustments do not incorporate or provide for adjustments for sulfur content, you may make sulfur adjustments, based on the quality of the representative crude oil at the market center, of 5.0 cents per one-tenth percent difference in sulfur content.

(i) You may request prior ONRR approval to use a different adjustment.

(ii) If ONRR approves your request to use a different quality adjustment, you may begin using that adjustment for the production month following the month when ONRR received your request.

(d) The examples in this paragraph illustrate how to apply the requirement of this section.
