
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart D - Federal Gas
###### § 1206.141 How do I calculate royalty value for unprocessed gas that I or my affiliate sell(s) under an arm's-length or non-arm's-length contract?

(a) This section applies to unprocessed gas. Unprocessed gas is:

(1) Gas that is not processed;

(2) Any gas that you are not required to value under § 1206.142 or that ONRR does not value under § 1206.144; or

(3) Any gas that you sell prior to processing based on a price per MMBtu or Mcf when the price is not based on the residue gas and gas plant products.

(b) The value of gas under this section for royalty purposes is the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate under the first arm's-length contract less a transportation allowance determined under § 1206.152. This value does not apply if you exercise the option in paragraph (c) of this section or if ONRR decides to value your gas under § 1206.144. You must use this paragraph (b) to value gas when:

(1) You sell under an arm's-length contract;

(2) You sell or transfer unprocessed gas to your affiliate or another person under a non-arm's-length contract and that affiliate or person, or an affiliate of either of them, then sells the gas under an arm's-length contract, unless you exercise the option provided in paragraph (c) of this section;

(3) You, your affiliate, or another person sell(s) unprocessed gas produced from a lease under multiple arm's-length contracts, and that gas is valued under this paragraph. Unless you exercise the option provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the value of the gas is the volume-weighted average of the values, established under this paragraph, for each contract for the sale of gas produced from that lease; or

(4) You or your affiliate sell(s) under a pipeline cash-out program. In that case, for over-delivered volumes within the tolerance under a pipeline cash-out program, the value is the price that the pipeline must pay you or your affiliate under the transportation contract. You must use the same value for volumes that exceed the over-delivery tolerances, even if those volumes are subject to a lower price under the transportation contract.

(c) If you do not sell under an arm's-length contract, you may elect to value your gas under this paragraph (c). You may not change your election more often than once every two years.
