
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart D - Federal Gas
###### ยง 1206.141 How do I calculate royalty value for unprocessed gas that I or my affiliate sell(s) under an arm's-length or non-arm's-length contract?
####### www.onrr.gov

(vi) ONRR may exclude an individual index pricing point found in an ONRR-approved publication if ONRR determines that the index pricing point does not accurately reflect the values of production. ONRR will publish a list of excluded index pricing points available at.

(2) You may not take any other deductions from the value calculated under this paragraph (c).

(d) If some of your gas is used, lost, unaccounted for, or retained as a fee under the terms of a sales or service agreement, that gas will be valued for royalty purposes using the same royalty valuation method for valuing the rest of the gas that you do sell.

(e) If you have no written contract for the sale of gas or no sale of gas subject to this section and:

(1) There is an index pricing point for the gas, then you must value your gas under paragraph (c) of this section; or

(2) There is not an index pricing point for the gas, then ONRR will decide the value under ยง 1206.144.

(i) You must propose to ONRR a method to determine the value using the procedures in ยง 1206.148(a).

(ii) You may use that method to determine value, for royalty purposes, until ONRR issues our decision.

(iii) After ONRR issues our determination, you must make the adjustments under ยง 1206.143(a)(2).
