
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart D - Federal Gas
###### ยง 1206.142 How do I calculate royalty value for processed gas that I or my affiliate sell(s) under an arm's-length or non-arm's-length contract?

(a) This section applies to the valuation of processed gas, including but not limited to:

(1) Gas that you or your affiliate do not sell, or otherwise dispose of, under an arm's-length contract prior to processing.

(2) Gas where your or your affiliate's arm's-length contract for the sale of gas prior to processing provides for payment to be determined on the basis of the value of any products resulting from processing, including residue gas or natural gas liquids.

(3) Gas that you or your affiliate process under an arm's-length keepwhole contract.

(4) Gas where your or your affiliate's arm's-length contract includes a reservation of the right to process the gas, and you or your affiliate exercise(s) that right.

(b) The value of gas subject to this section, for royalty purposes, is the combined value of the residue gas and all gas plant products that you determine under this section plus the value of any condensate recovered downstream of the point of royalty settlement without resorting to processing that you determine under subpart C of this part less applicable transportation and processing allowances that you determine under this subpart, unless you exercise the option provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) The value of residue gas or any gas plant product under this section for royalty purposes is the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate under the first arm's-length contract. This value does not apply if you exercise the option provided in paragraph (d) of this section, or if ONRR decides to value your residue gas or any gas plant product under ยง 1206.144. You must use this paragraph (c) to value residue gas or any gas plant product when:

(1) You sell under an arm's-length contract;

(2) You sell or transfer to your affiliate or another person under a non-arm's-length contract, and that affiliate or person, or another affiliate of either of them, then sells the residue gas or any gas plant product under an arm's-length contract, unless you exercise the option provided in paragraph (d) of this section;

(3) You, your affiliate, or another person sell(s), under multiple arm's-length contracts, residue gas or any gas plant products recovered from gas produced from a lease that you value under this paragraph. In that case, unless you exercise the option provided in paragraph (d) of this section, because you sold non-arm's-length to your affiliate or another person, the value of the residue gas or any gas plant product is the volume-weighted average of the gross proceeds established under this paragraph for each arm's-length contract for the sale of residue gas or any gas plant products recovered from gas produced from that lease; or

(4) You or your affiliate sell(s) under a pipeline cash-out program. In that case, for over-delivered volumes within the tolerance under a pipeline cash-out program, the value is the price that the pipeline must pay to you or your affiliate under the transportation contract. You must use the same value for volumes that exceed the over-delivery tolerances, even if those volumes are subject to a lower price under the transportation contract.

(d) If you do not sell under an arm's-length contract, you may elect to value your residue gas and NGLs under this paragraph (d). You may not change your election more often than once every two years.
