
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart D - Federal Gas
###### ยง 1206.142 How do I calculate royalty value for processed gas that I or my affiliate sell(s) under an arm's-length or non-arm's-length contract?
####### www.onrr.gov

(iii) After you select an ONRR-approved commercial price bulletin available at, you may not select a different commercial price bulletin more often than once every two years.

(3) You may not take any other deductions from the value calculated under this paragraph (d).

(4) ONRR will post changes to any of the rates in this paragraph (d) on its website.

(e) If some of your gas or gas plant products are used, lost, unaccounted for, or retained as a fee under the terms of a sales or service agreement, that gas will be valued for royalty purposes using the same royalty valuation method for valuing the rest of the gas or gas plant products that you do sell.

(f) If you have no written contract for the sale of gas or no sale of gas subject to this section and:

(1) There is an index pricing point or commercial price bulletin for the gas, then you must value your gas under paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) There is not an index pricing point or commercial price bulletin for the gas, then ONRR will determine the value under ยง 1206.144.

(i) You must propose to ONRR a method to determine the value using the procedures in ยง 1206.148(a).

(ii) You may use that method to determine value, for royalty purposes, until ONRR issues our decision.

(iii) After ONRR issues our determination, you must make the adjustments under ยง 1206.143(a)(2).
