
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart D - Federal Gas
###### ยง 1206.150 How do I determine royalty quantity and quality?

(a)(1) You must calculate royalties based on the quantity and quality of unprocessed gas as measured at the point of royalty settlement that BLM or BSEE approves for onshore leases and OCS leases, respectively.

(2) If you base the value of gas determined under this subpart on a quantity and/or quality that is different from the quantity and/or quality at the point of royalty settlement that BLM or BSEE approves, you must adjust that value for the differences in quantity and/or quality.

(b)(1) For residue gas and gas plant products, the quantity basis for computing royalties due is the monthly net output of the plant, even though residue gas and/or gas plant products may be in temporary storage.

(2) If you value residue gas and/or gas plant products determined under this subpart on a quantity and/or quality of residue gas and/or gas plant products that is different from that which is attributable to a lease determined under paragraph (c) of this section, you must adjust that value for the differences in quantity and/or quality.

(c) You must determine the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products attributable to a lease based on the following procedure:

(1) When you derive the net output of the processing plant from gas obtained from only one lease, you must base the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products for royalty computation on the net output of the plant.

(2) When you derive the net output of a processing plant from gas obtained from more than one lease producing gas of uniform content, you must base the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products allocable to each lease on the same proportions as the ratios obtained by dividing the amount of gas delivered to the plant from each lease by the total amount of gas delivered from all leases.

(3) When the net output of a processing plant is derived from gas obtained from more than one lease producing gas of non-uniform content:

(i) You must determine the quantity of the residue gas allocable to each lease by multiplying the amount of gas delivered to the plant from the lease by the residue gas content of the gas, and dividing that arithmetical product by the sum of the similar arithmetical products separately obtained for all leases from which gas is delivered to the plant, and then multiplying the net output of the residue gas by the arithmetic quotient obtained.

(ii) You must determine the net output of gas plant products allocable to each lease by multiplying the amount of gas delivered to the plant from the lease by the gas plant product content of the gas, dividing that arithmetical product by the sum of the similar arithmetical products separately obtained for all leases from which gas is delivered to the plant, and then multiplying the net output of each gas plant product by the arithmetic quotient obtained.

(4) You may request prior ONRR approval of other methods for determining the quantity of residue gas and gas plant products allocable to each lease. If approved, you must apply that method to all gas production from Federal leases that is processed in the same plant. You must do so beginning with the production month following the month when ONRR received your request to use another method.

(d)(1) You may not make any deductions from the royalty volume or royalty value for actual or theoretical losses. Any actual loss of unprocessed gas that you sustain before the royalty settlement meter or measurement point is not subject to royalty if BLM or BSEE, whichever is appropriate, determines that such loss was unavoidable.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and ยง 1202.151(c), you must pay royalties due on 100 percent of the volume determined under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may not reduce that determined volume for actual losses after you have determined the quantity basis, or for theoretical losses that you claim to have taken place. Royalties are due on 100 percent of the value of the unprocessed gas, residue gas, and/or gas plant products, as provided in this subpart, less applicable allowances. You may not take any deduction from the value of the unprocessed gas, residue gas, and/or gas plant products to compensate for actual losses after you have determined the quantity basis or for theoretical losses that you claim to have taken place.
