
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### Transportation Allowances
####### ยง 1206.177 What general requirements regarding transportation allowances apply to me?

(a) When you value gas under ยง 1206.174 at a point off the lease, unit, or communitized area (for example, sales point or point of value determination), you may deduct from value a transportation allowance to reflect the value, for royalty purposes, at the lease, unit, or communitized area. The allowance is based on the reasonable actual costs you incurred to transport unprocessed gas, residue gas, or gas plant products from a lease to a point off the lease, unit, or communitized area. This would include, if appropriate, transportation from the lease to a gas processing plant off the lease, unit, or communitized area and from the plant to a point away from the plant. You may not deduct any allowance for gathering costs.

(b) You must allocate transportation costs among all products you produce and transport as provided in ยง 1206.178.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, your transportation allowance deduction for each sales type code may not exceed 50 percent of the value of the unprocessed gas, residue gas, or gas plant product. For purposes of this section, natural gas liquids are considered one product.

(2) If you ask ONRR, ONRR may approve a transportation allowance deduction in excess of the limitations in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. To receive this approval, you must demonstrate that the transportation costs incurred in excess of the limitations in paragraph (c)(1) of this section were reasonable, actual, and necessary. Under no circumstances may an allowance reduce the value for royalty purposes under any sales type code to zero.

(3) Your application for exception (using Form ONRR-4393, Request to Exceed Regulatory Allowance Limitation) must contain all relevant and supporting documentation necessary for ONRR to make a determination.

(d) If ONRR conducts a review or audit and determines that you have improperly determined a transportation allowance authorized by this subpart, then you will be required to pay any additional royalties, plus interest determined in accordance with ยง 1218.54 of this chapter. Alternatively, you may be entitled to a credit, but you will not receive any interest on your overpayment.
