
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### Transportation Allowances
####### ยง 1206.178 How do I determine a transportation allowance?
######## Determining a transportation allowance under an arm's-length contract.

(a)(1) This paragraph explains how to determine your allowance if you have an arm's-length transportation contract.

(i) If you have an arm's-length contract for transportation of your production, the transportation allowance is the reasonable, actual costs you incur for transporting the unprocessed gas, residue gas and/or gas plant products under that contract. Paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section provide a limited exception. You have the burden of demonstrating that your contract is arm's-length. Your allowances also are subject to paragraph (e) of this section. You are required to submit to ONRR a copy of your arm's-length transportation contract(s) and all subsequent amendments to the contract(s) within 2 months of the date ONRR receives your report which claims the allowance on the Form ONRR-2014.

(ii) When either ONRR or a tribe conducts reviews and audits, they will examine whether or not the contract reflects more than the consideration actually transferred either directly or indirectly from you to the transporter of the transportation. If the contract reflects more than the total consideration, then ONRR may require that the transportation allowance be determined under paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) If ONRR determines that the consideration paid under an arm's-length transportation contract does not reflect the value of the transportation because of misconduct by or between the contracting parties, or because you otherwise have breached your duty to the lessor to market the production for the mutual benefit of you and the lessor, then ONRR will require that the transportation allowance be determined under paragraph (b) of this section. In these circumstances, ONRR will notify you and give you an opportunity to provide written information justifying your transportation costs.

(2) This paragraph explains how to allocate the costs to each product if your arm's-length transportation contract includes more than one product in a gaseous phase and the transportation costs attributable to each product cannot be determined from the contract.

(i) If your arm's-length transportation contract includes more than one product in a gaseous phase and the transportation costs attributable to each product cannot be determined from the contract, the total transportation costs must be allocated in a consistent and equitable manner to each of the products transported. To make this allocation, use the same proportion as the ratio that the volume of each product (excluding waste products which have no value) bears to the volume of all products in the gaseous phase (excluding waste products which have no value). Except as provided in this paragraph, you cannot take an allowance for the costs of transporting lease production that is not royalty bearing without ONRR approval, or without lessor approval on tribal leases.

(ii) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, you may propose to ONRR a cost allocation method based on the values of the products transported. ONRR will approve the method if we determine that it meets one of the two following requirements:

(A) The methodology in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section cannot be applied; and

(B) Your proposal is more reasonable than the methodology in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) This paragraph explains how to allocate costs to each product if your arm's-length transportation contract includes both gaseous and liquid products and the transportation costs attributable to each cannot be determined from the contract.

(i) If your arm's-length transportation contract includes both gaseous and liquid products and the transportation costs attributable to each cannot be determined from the contract, you must propose an allocation procedure to ONRR. You may use the transportation allowance determined in accordance with your proposed allocation procedure until ONRR decides whether to accept your cost allocation.

(ii) You are required to submit all relevant data to support your allocation proposal. ONRR will then determine the gas transportation allowance based upon your proposal and any additional information ONRR deems necessary.

(4) If your payments for transportation under an arm's-length contract are not based on a dollar per unit price, you must convert whatever consideration is paid to a dollar value equivalent for the purposes of this section.

(5) Where an arm's-length sales contract price includes a reduction for a transportation factor, ONRR will not consider the transportation factor to be a transportation allowance. You may use the transportation factor to determine your gross proceeds for the sale of the product. However, the transportation factor may not exceed 50 percent of the base price of the product without ONRR approval.
