
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### Transportation Allowances
####### ยง 1206.178 How do I determine a transportation allowance?
######## Determining a transportation allowance under a non-arm's-length or no contract.

(b)(1) This paragraph explains how to determine your allowance if you have a non-arm's-length transportation contract or no contract.

(i) When you have a non-arm's-length transportation contract or no contract, including those situations where you perform transportation services for yourself, the transportation allowance is based upon your reasonable, allowable, actual costs for transportation as provided in this paragraph.

(ii) All transportation allowances deducted under a non-arm's-length or no contract situation are subject to monitoring, review, audit, and adjustment. You must submit the actual cost information to support the allowance to ONRR on Form ONRR-4295, Gas Transportation Allowance Report, within 3 months after the end of the 12-month period to which the allowance applies. However, ONRR may approve a longer time period. ONRR will monitor the allowance deductions to ensure that deductions are reasonable and allowable. When necessary or appropriate, ONRR may require you to modify your actual transportation allowance deduction.

(2) This paragraph explains what actual transportation costs are allowable under a non-arm's-length contract or no contract situation. The transportation allowance for non-arm's-length or no-contract situations is based upon your actual costs for transportation during the reporting period. Allowable costs include operating and maintenance expenses, overhead, and either depreciation and a return on undepreciated capital investment (in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) of this section), or a cost equal to the initial depreciable investment in the transportation system multiplied by a rate of return in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. Allowable capital costs are generally those costs for depreciable fixed assets (including costs of delivery and installation of capital equipment) that are an integral part of the transportation system.

(i) Allowable operating expenses include operations supervision and engineering, operations labor, fuel, utilities, materials, ad valorem property taxes, rent, supplies, and any other directly allocable and attributable operating expense that you can document.

(ii) Allowable maintenance expenses include maintenance of the transportation system, maintenance of equipment, maintenance labor, and other directly allocable and attributable maintenance expenses that you can document.

(iii) Overhead directly attributable and allocable to the operation and maintenance of the transportation system is an allowable expense. State and Federal income taxes and severance taxes and other fees, including royalties, are not allowable expenses.

(iv) You may use either depreciation with a return on undepreciated capital investment or a return on depreciable capital investment. After you have elected to use either method for a transportation system, you may not later elect to change to the other alternative without ONRR approval.

(A) To compute depreciation, you may elect to use either a straight-line depreciation method based on the life of equipment or on the life of the reserves that the transportation system services, or a unit of production method. Once you make an election, you may not change methods without ONRR approval. A change in ownership of a transportation system will not alter the depreciation schedule that the original transporter/lessee established for purposes of the allowance calculation. With or without a change in ownership, a transportation system may be depreciated only once. Equipment may not be depreciated below a reasonable salvage value. To compute a return on undepreciated capital investment, you will multiply the undepreciated capital investment in the transportation system by the rate of return determined under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section.

(B) To compute a return on depreciable capital investment, you will multiply the initial capital investment in the transportation system by the rate of return determined under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section. No allowance will be provided for depreciation. This alternative will apply only to transportation facilities first placed in service after March 1, 1988.
