
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### Transportation Allowances
####### ยง 1206.178 How do I determine a transportation allowance?
######## Standard and Poor's Bond Guide

(v) The rate of return is the industrial rate associated with Standard and Poor's BBB rating. The rate of return is the monthly average rate as published infor the first month of the reporting period for which the allowance is applicable and is effective during the reporting period. The rate must be redetermined at the beginning of each subsequent transportation allowance reporting period that is determined under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(3) This paragraph explains how to allocate transportation costs to each product and transportation system.

(i) The deduction for transportation costs must be determined based on your cost of transporting each product through each individual transportation system. If you transport more than one product in a gaseous phase, the allocation of costs to each of the products transported must be made in a consistent and equitable manner. The allocation should be in the same proportion that the volume of each product (excluding waste products that have no value) bears to the volume of all products in the gaseous phase (excluding waste products that have no value). Except as provided in this paragraph, you may not take an allowance for transporting a product that is not royalty bearing without ONRR approval.

(ii) As an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, you may propose to ONRR a cost allocation method based on the values of the products transported. ONRR will approve the method upon determining that it meets one of the two following requirements:

(A) The methodology in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section cannot be applied; and

(B) Your proposal is more reasonable than the method in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(4) Your transportation allowance under this paragraph (b) must be determined based upon a calendar year or other period if you and ONRR agree to an alternative.

(5) If you transport both gaseous and liquid products through the same transportation system, you must propose a cost allocation procedure to ONRR. You may use the transportation allowance determined in accordance with your proposed allocation procedure until ONRR issues its determination on the acceptability of the cost allocation. You are required to submit all relevant data to support your proposal. ONRR will then determine the transportation allowance based upon your proposal and any additional information ONRR deems necessary.
