
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.170 What does this subpart contain?

This subpart contains royalty valuation provisions applicable to Indian lessees.

(a) This subpart applies to all gas production from Indian (tribal and allotted) oil and gas leases (except leases on the Osage Indian Reservation). The purpose of this subpart is to establish the value of production for royalty purposes consistent with the mineral leasing laws, other applicable laws, and lease terms. This subpart does not apply to Federal leases.

(b) If the specific provisions of any Federal statute, treaty, negotiated agreement, settlement agreement resulting from any administrative or judicial proceeding, or Indian oil and gas lease are inconsistent with any regulation in this subpart, then the Federal statute, treaty, negotiated agreement, settlement agreement, or lease will govern to the extent of that inconsistency.

(c) You may calculate the value of production for royalty purposes under methods other than those the regulations in this title require, but only if you, the tribal lessor, and ONRR jointly agree to the valuation methodology. For leases on Indian allotted lands, you and ONRR must agree to the valuation methodology.

(d) All royalty payments you make to ONRR are subject to monitoring, review, audit, and adjustment.

(e) The regulations in this subpart are intended to ensure that the trust responsibilities of the United States with respect to the administration of Indian oil and gas leases are discharged in accordance with the requirements of the governing mineral leasing laws, treaties, and lease terms.
