
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### § 1206.172 How do I value gas produced from leases in an index zone?
####### Determining the index-based value for gas production.

(d)(1) To determine the index-based value per MMBtu for production from a lease in an index zone, you must use the following procedures:

(i) For each ONRR-approved publication, calculate the average of the highest reported prices for all index-pricing points in the index zone, except for any prices excluded under paragraph (d)(6) of this section;

(ii) Sum the averages calculated in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section and divide by the number of publications; and

(iii) Reduce the number calculated under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section by 10 percent, but not by less than 10 cents per MMBtu or more than 30 cents per MMBtu. The result is the index-based value per MMBtu for production from all leases in that index zone.

(2) ONRR will publish in thethe index zones that are eligible for the index-based valuation method under this paragraph. ONRR will monitor the market activity in the index zones and, if necessary, hold a technical conference to add or modify a particular index zone. Any change to the index zones will be published in theONRR will consider the following five factors and conditions in determining eligible index zones:

(i) Areas for which ONRR-approved publications establish index prices that accurately reflect the value of production in the field or area where the production occurs;

(ii) Common markets served;

(iii) Common pipeline systems;

(iv) Simplification; and

(v) Easy identification in ONRR's systems, such as counties or Indian reservations.

(3) If market conditions change so that an index-based method for determining value is no longer appropriate for an index zone, ONRR will hold a technical conference to consider disqualification of an index zone. ONRR will publish notice in theif an index zone is disqualified. If an index zone is disqualified, then production from leases in that index zone cannot be valued under this paragraph.

(4) ONRR periodically will publish in thea list of acceptable publications based on certain criteria, including, but not limited to the following five criteria:

(i) Publications buyers and sellers frequently use;

(ii) Publications frequently referenced in purchase or sales contracts;

(iii) Publications that use adequate survey techniques, including the gathering of information from a substantial number of sales;

(iv) Publications that publish the range of reported prices they use to calculate their index; and

(v) Publications independent from DOI, lessors, and lessees.

(5) Any publication may petition ONRR to be added to the list of acceptable publications.

(6) ONRR may exclude an individual index price for an index zone in an ONRR-approved publication if ONRR determines that the index price does not accurately reflect the value of production in that index zone. ONRR will publish a list of excluded indices in the

(7) ONRR will reference which tables in the publications you must use for determining the associated index prices.

(8) The index-based values determined under this paragraph are not subject to deductions for transportation or processing allowances determined under §§ 1206.177, 1206.178, 1206.179, and 1206.180.
