
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.172 How do I value gas produced from leases in an index zone?
####### Determining the minimum value for royalty purposes of gas sold beyond the first index pricing point.

(e)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the value for royalty purposes of gas production from an Indian lease that is sold beyond the first index pricing point through which it flows cannot be less than the value determined under this paragraph (e).

(2) By June 30 following any calendar year, you must calculate for each month of that calendar year your safety net price per MMBtu using the procedures in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. You must calculate a safety net price for each month and for each index zone where you have an Indian lease for which you report and pay royalties.

(3) Your safety net price (S) for an index zone is the volume-weighted average contract price per delivered MMBtu under your or your affiliate's arm's-length contracts for the disposition of residue gas or unprocessed gas produced from your Indian leases in that index zone as computed under this paragraph (e)(3).

(i) Include in your calculation only sales under those contracts that establish a delivery point beyond the first index pricing point through which the gas flows, and that include any gas produced from or allocable to one or more of your Indian leases in that index zone, even if the contract also includes gas produced from Federal, State, or fee properties. Include in your volume-weighted average calculation those volumes that are allocable to your Indian leases in that index zone.

(ii) Do not reduce the contract price for any transportation costs incurred to deliver the gas to the purchaser.

(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (e), the contract price will not include the following amounts:

(A) Any amounts you receive in compromise or settlement of a predecessor contract for that gas;

(B) Deductions for you or any other person to put gas production into marketable condition or to market the gas; and

(C) Any amounts related to marketable securities associated with the sales contract.

(4) Next, you must determine for each month the safety net differential (SND). You must perform this calculation separately for each index zone.

(i) For each index zone, the safety net differential is equal to: SND = [(0.80 x S) - (1.25 x I)] where (I) is the index-based value determined under 30 CFR 206.172(d).

(ii) If the safety net differential is positive you owe additional royalties.

(5)(i) To calculate the additional royalties you owe, make the following calculation for each of your Indian leases in that index zone that produced gas that was sold beyond the first index-pricing point through which the gas flowed and that was used in the calculation in paragraph (e)(3) of this section:

(ii) If gas produced from any of your Indian leases is commingled or pooled with gas produced from non-Indian properties, and if any of the combined gas is sold at a delivery point beyond the first index pricing point through which the gas flows, then the volume allocable to each Indian lease for which gas was sold beyond the first index pricing point in the calculation under paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section is the volume produced from the lease multiplied by the proportion that the total volume of gas sold beyond the first index pricing point bears to the total volume of gas commingled or pooled from all properties.

(iii) Add the numbers calculated for each lease under paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section. The total is the additional royalty you owe.

(6) You have the following responsibilities to comply with the minimum value for royalty purposes:

(i) You must report the safety net price for each index zone to ONRR on Form ONRR-4411, Safety Net Report, no later than June 30 following each calendar year;

(ii) You must pay and report on Form ONRR-2014 additional royalties due no later than June 30 following each calendar year; and

(iii) ONRR may order you to amend your safety net price within one year from the date your Form ONRR-4411 is due or is filed, whichever is later. If ONRR does not order any amendments within that one-year period, your safety net price calculation is final.
