
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.172 How do I value gas produced from leases in an index zone?
####### Excluding some or all tribal leases from valuation under this section.

(f)(1) An Indian tribe may ask ONRR to exclude some or all of its leases from valuation under this section. ONRR will consult with BIA regarding the request.

(i) If ONRR approves the request for your lease, you must value your production under ยง 1206.174 beginning with production on the first day of the second month following the date ONRR publishes notice of its decision in the

(ii) If an Indian tribe requests exclusion from an index zone for less than all of its leases, ONRR will approve the request only if the excluded leases may be segregated into one or more groups based on separate fields within the reservation.

(2) An Indian tribe may ask ONRR to terminate exclusion of its leases from valuation under this section. ONRR will consult with BIA regarding the request.

(i) If ONRR approves the request, you must value your production under ยง 1206.172 beginning with production on the first day of the second month following the date ONRR publishes notice of its decision in the

(ii) Termination of an exclusion under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section cannot take effect earlier than 1 year after the first day of the production month that the exclusion was effective.

(3) The Indian tribe's request to ONRR under either paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section must be in the form of a tribal resolution.
