
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.173 How do I calculate the alternative methodology for dual accounting?
####### Electing a dual accounting method.

(a)(1) If you are required to perform the accounting for comparison (dual accounting) under ยง 1206.176, you have two choices. You may elect to perform the dual accounting calculation according to either ยง 1206.176(a) (called actual dual accounting), or paragraph (b) of this section (called the alternative methodology for dual accounting).

(2) You must make a separate election to use the alternative methodology for dual accounting for your Indian leases in each ONRR-designated area. Your election for a designated area must apply to all of your Indian leases in that area.

(i) ONRR will publish in thea list of the lease prefixes that will be associated with each designated area for purposes of this section. The ONRR-designated areas are as follows:

(A) Alabama-Coushatta;

(B) Blackfeet Reservation;

(C) Crow Reservation;

(D) Fort Belknap Reservation;

(E) Fort Berthold Reservation;

(F) Fort Peck Reservation;

(G) Jicarilla Apache Reservation;

(H) ONRR-designated groups of counties in the State of Oklahoma;

(I) Navajo Reservation;

(J) Northern Cheyenne Reservation;

(K) Rocky Boys Reservation;

(L) Southern Ute Reservation;

(M) Turtle Mountain Reservation;

(N) Ute Mountain Ute Reservation;

(O) Uintah and Ouray Reservation;

(P) Wind River Reservation; and

(Q) Any other area that ONRR designates. ONRR will publish a new area designation in the

(ii) You may elect to begin using the alternative methodology for dual accounting at the beginning of any month. The first election to use the alternative methodology will be effective from the time of election through the end of the following calendar year. Thereafter, each election to use the alternative methodology must remain in effect for 2 calendar years. You may return to the actual dual accounting method only at the beginning of the next election period or with the written approval of ONRR and the tribal lessor for tribal leases, and ONRR for Indian allottee leases in the designated area.

(iii) When you elect to use the alternative methodology for a designated area, you must also use the alternative methodology for any new wells commenced and any new leases acquired in the designated area during the term of the election.
