
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### § 1206.173 How do I calculate the alternative methodology for dual accounting?
####### Calculating value using the alternative methodology for dual accounting.

(b)(1) The alternative methodology adjusts the value of gas before processing determined under either § 1206.172 or § 1206.174 to provide the value of the gas after processing. You must use the value of the gas after processing for royalty payment purposes. The amount of the increase depends on your relationship with the owner(s) of the plant where the gas is processed. If you have no direct or indirect ownership interest in the processing plant, then the increase is lower, as provided in the table in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. If you have a direct or indirect ownership interest in the plant where the gas is processed, the increase is higher, as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(2) To calculate the value of the gas after processing using the alternative methodology for dual accounting, you must apply the increase to the value before processing, determined in either § 1206.172 or § 1206.174, as follows:

(i) Value of gas after processing = (value determined under either § 1206.172 or § 1206.174, as applicable) x (1 + increment for dual accounting); and

(ii) In this equation, the increment for dual accounting is the number you take from the applicable Btu range, determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, in the following table:

(3) The applicable Btu for purposes of this section is the volume weighted-average Btu for the lease computed from measurements at the facility measurement point(s) for gas production from the lease.

(4) If any of your gas from the lease is processed during a month, use the following two paragraphs to determine which amounts are subject to dual accounting and which dual accounting method you must use.

(i) Weighted-average Btu content determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section is greater than 1,000 Btu's per cubic foot (Btu/cf). All gas production from the lease is subject to dual accounting and you must use the alternative method for all that gas production if you elected to use the alternative method under this section.

(ii) Weighted-average Btu content determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section is less than or equal to 1,000 Btu/cf. Only the volumes of lease production measured at facility measurement points whose quality exceeds 1,000 Btu/cf are subject to dual accounting, and you may use the alternative methodology for these volumes. For gas measured at facility measurement points for these leases where the quality is equal to or less than 1,000 Btu/cf, you are not required to do dual accounting.
