
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### § 1206.174 How do I value gas production when an index-based method cannot be used?
####### Situations in which an index-based method cannot be used.

(a)(1) Gas production must be valued under this section in the following situations.

(i) Your lease is not in an index zone (or ONRR has excluded your lease from an index zone).

(ii) If your lease is in an index zone and you sell your gas under an arm's-length dedicated contract, then the value of your gas is the higher of the value received under the dedicated contract determined under § 1206.174(b) or the value under § 1206.172.

(iii) Also use this section to value any other gas production that cannot be valued under § 1206.172, as well as gas plant products, and to value components of the gas stream that have no Btu value (for example, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, etc.).

(2) The value for royalty purposes of gas production subject to this subpart is the value of gas determined under this section less applicable allowances determined under this subpart.

(3) You must determine the value of gas production that is processed and is subject to accounting for comparison using the procedure in § 1206.176.

(4) This paragraph applies if your lease has a major portion provision. It also applies if your lease does not have a major portion provision but the lease provides for the Secretary to determine value.

(i) The value of production you must initially report and pay is the value determined in accordance with the other paragraphs of this section.

(ii) ONRR will determine the major portion value and notify you in theof that value. The value of production for royalty purposes for your lease is the higher of either the value determined under this section which you initially used to report and pay royalties, or the major portion value calculated under this paragraph (a)(4). If the major portion value is higher, you must submit an amended Form ONRR-2014 to ONRR by the due date specified in the written notice from ONRR of the major portion value. Late-payment interest under § 1218.54 of this chapter on any underpayment will not begin to accrue until the date the amended Form ONRR-2014 is due to ONRR.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section, ONRR will calculate the major portion value for each designated area (which are the same designated areas as under § 1206.173) using values reported for unprocessed gas and residue gas on Form ONRR-2014 for gas produced from leases on that Indian reservation or other designated area. ONRR will array the reported prices from highest to lowest price. The major portion value is that price at which 25 percent (by volume) of the gas (starting from the highest) is sold. ONRR cannot unilaterally change the major portion value after you are notified in writing of what that value is for your leases.

(iv) ONRR may calculate the major portion value using different data than the data described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section or data to augment the data described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section. This may include price data reported to the State tax authority or price data from leases ONRR has reviewed in the designated area. ONRR may use this alternate or the augmented data source beginning with production on the first day of the month following the date ONRR publishes notice in thethat it is calculating the major portion using a method in this paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section.
