
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.174 How do I value gas production when an index-based method cannot be used?
####### Arm's-length contracts.

(b)(1) The value of gas, residue gas, or any gas plant product you sell under an arm's-length contract is the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)-(iv) of this section.

(i) You have the burden of demonstrating that your contract is arm's-length.

(ii) In conducting reviews and audits for gas valued based upon gross proceeds under this paragraph, ONRR will examine whether or not your contract reflects the total consideration actually transferred either directly or indirectly from the buyer to you or your affiliate for the gas, residue gas, or gas plant product. If the contract does not reflect the total consideration, then ONRR may require that the gas, residue gas, or gas plant product sold under that contract be valued in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Value may not be less than the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate, including the additional consideration.

(iii) If ONRR determines for gas valued under this paragraph that the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate under an arm's-length contract do not reflect the value of the gas, residue gas, or gas plant products because of misconduct by or between the contracting parties, or because you otherwise have breached your duty to the lessor to market the production for the mutual benefit of you and the lessor, then ONRR will require that the gas, residue gas, or gas plant product be valued under paragraphs (c)(2) or (3) of this section. In these circumstances, ONRR will notify you and give you an opportunity to provide written information justifying your value.

(iv) This paragraph applies to situations where a pipeline purchases gas from a lessee according to a cash-out program under a transportation contract. For all over-delivered volumes, the royalty value is the price the pipeline is required to pay for volumes within the tolerances for over-delivery specified in the transportation contract. Use the same value for volumes that exceed the over-delivery tolerances even if those volumes are subject to a lower price specified in the transportation contract. However, if ONRR determines that the price specified in the transportation contract for over-delivered volumes is unreasonably low, the lessees must value all over-delivered volumes under paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section.

(2) ONRR may require you to certify that your arm's-length contract provisions include all of the consideration the buyer pays, either directly or indirectly, for the gas, residue gas, or gas plant product.
