
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.174 How do I value gas production when an index-based method cannot be used?
####### Non-arm's-length contracts.

(c)If your gas, residue gas, or any gas plant product is not sold under an arm's-length contract, then you must value the production using the first applicable method of the following three methods:

(1) The gross proceeds accruing to you under your non-arm's-length contract sale (or other disposition other than by an arm's-length contract), provided that those gross proceeds are equivalent to the gross proceeds derived from, or paid under, comparable arm's-length contracts for purchases, sales, or other dispositions of like-quality gas in the same field (or, if necessary to obtain a reasonable sample, from the same area). For residue gas or gas plant products, the comparable arm's-length contracts must be for gas from the same processing plant (or, if necessary to obtain a reasonable sample, from nearby plants). In evaluating the comparability of arm's-length contracts for the purposes of these regulations, the following factors will be considered: price, time of execution, duration, market or markets served, terms, quality of gas, residue gas, or gas plant products, volume, and such other factors as may be appropriate to reflect the value of the gas, residue gas, or gas plant products.

(2) A value determined by consideration of other information relevant in valuing like-quality gas, residue gas, or gas plant products, including gross proceeds under arm's-length contracts for like-quality gas in the same field or nearby fields or areas, or for residue gas or gas plant products from the same gas plant or other nearby processing plants. Other factors to consider include prices received in spot sales of gas, residue gas or gas plant products, other reliable public sources of price or market information, and other information as to the particular lease operation or the salability of such gas, residue gas, or gas plant products.

(3) A net-back method or any other reasonable method to determine value.
