
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.174 How do I value gas production when an index-based method cannot be used?
####### Minimum value of production.

(g)(1) For gas, residue gas, and gas plant products valued under this section, under no circumstances may the value of production for royalty purposes be less than the gross proceeds accruing to the lessee (including its affiliates) for gas, residue gas and/or any gas plant products, less applicable transportation allowances and processing allowances determined under this subpart.

(2) For gas plant products valued under this section and not valued under ยง 1206.173, the alternative methodology for dual accounting, the minimum value of production for each gas plant product is as follows:

(i) Leases in certain States and areas have specific minimum values.

(A) For production from leases in Colorado in the San Juan Basin, New Mexico, and Texas, the monthly average minimum price reported in commercial price bulletins for the gas plant product at Mont Belvieu, Texas, minus 8.0 cents per gallon.

(B) For production in Arizona, in Colorado outside the San Juan Basin, Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming, the monthly average minimum price reported in commercial price bulletins for the gas plant product at Conway, Kansas, minus 7.0 cents per gallon;

(ii) You may use any commercial price bulletin, but you must use the same bulletin for all of the calendar year. If the commercial price bulletin you are using stops publication, you may use a different commercial price bulletin for the remaining part of the calendar year; and (iii) If you use a commercial price bulletin that is published monthly, the monthly average minimum price is the bulletin's minimum price. If you use a commercial price bulletin that is published weekly, the monthly average minimum price is the arithmetic average of the bulletin's weekly minimum prices. If you use a commercial price bulletin that is published daily, the monthly average minimum price is the arithmetic average of the bulletin's minimum prices for each Wednesday in the month.
