
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart E - Indian Gas
###### ยง 1206.175 How do I determine quantities and qualities of production for computing royalties?

(a) For unprocessed gas, you must pay royalties on the quantity and quality at the facility measurement point BLM either allowed or approved.

(b) For residue gas and gas plant products, you must pay royalties on your share of the monthly net output of the plant even though residue gas and/or gas plant products may be in temporary storage.

(c) If you have no ownership interest in the processing plant and you do not operate the plant, you may use the contract volume allocation to determine your share of plant products.

(d) If you have an ownership interest in the plant or if you operate it, use the following procedure to determine the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products attributable to you for royalty payment purposes:

(1) When the net output of the processing plant is derived from gas obtained from only one lease, the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products on which you must pay royalty is the net output of the plant.

(2) When the net output of a processing plant is derived from gas obtained from more than one lease producing gas of uniform content, the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products allocable to each lease must be in the same proportions as the ratios obtained by dividing the amount of gas delivered to the plant from each lease by the total amount of gas delivered from all leases.

(3) When the net output of a processing plant is derived from gas obtained from more than one lease producing gas of non-uniform content, the volumes of residue gas and gas plant products allocable to each lease are based on theoretical volumes of residue gas and gas plant products measured in the lease gas stream. You must calculate the portion of net plant output of residue gas and gas plant products attributable to each lease as follows:

(i) First, compute the theoretical volumes of residue gas and of gas plant products attributable to the lease by multiplying the lease volume of the gas stream by the tested residue gas content (mole percentage) or gas plant product (GPM) content of the gas stream;

(ii) Second, calculate the theoretical volumes of residue gas and of gas plant products delivered from all leases by summing the theoretical volumes of residue gas and of gas plant products delivered from each lease; and

(iii) Third, calculate the theoretical quantities of net plant output of residue gas and of gas plant products attributable to each lease by multiplying the net plant output of residue gas, or gas plant products, by the ratio in which the theoretical volumes of residue gas, or gas plant products, is the numerator and the theoretical volume of residue gas, or gas plant products, delivered from all leases is the denominator.

(4) You may request ONRR approval of other methods for determining the quantity of residue gas and gas plant products allocable to each lease. If ONRR approves a different method, it will be applicable to all gas production from your Indian leases that is processed in the same plant.

(e) You may not take any deductions from the royalty volume or royalty value for actual or theoretical losses. Any actual loss of unprocessed gas incurred prior to the facility measurement point will not be subject to royalty if BLM determines that the loss was unavoidable.
