
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart F - Federal Coal
###### ยง 1206.251 How do I determine royalty quantity and quality?

(a) You must calculate royalties based on the quantity and quality of coal at the royalty measurement point that ONRR and BLM jointly determine.

(b) You must measure coal in short tons using the methods that BLM prescribes for Federal coal leases under 43 CFR part 3000. You must report coal quantity on appropriate forms required in 30 CFR part 1210-Forms and Reports.

(c)(1) You are not required to pay royalties on coal that you produce and add to stockpiles or inventory until you use, sell, or otherwise finally dispose of such coal.

(2) ONRR may request that BLM require you to increase your lease bond if BLM determines that stockpiles or inventory are excessive such that they increase the risk of resource degradation.

(d) You must pay royalty at the rate specified in your lease at the time when you use, sell, or otherwise finally dispose of the coal.

(e) You must allocate washed coal by attributing the washed coal to the leases from which it was extracted.

(1) If the wash plant washes coal from only one lease, the quantity of washed coal allocable to the lease is the total output of washed coal from the plant.

(2) If the wash plant washes coal from more than one lease, you must determine the tonnage of washed coal attributable to each lease by:

(i) First, calculating the input ratio of washed coal allocable to each lease by dividing the tonnage of coal input to the wash plant from each lease by the total tonnage of coal input to the wash plant from all leases.

(ii) Second, multiplying the input ratio derived under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section by the tonnage of total output of washed coal from the plant.
