
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart H - Geothermal Resources
###### ยง 1206.350 What is the purpose of this subpart?
####### et seq.

(a) This subpart applies to all geothermal resources produced from Federal geothermal leases issued pursuant to the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (GSA), as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct) (30 U.S.C. 1001). The purpose of this subpart is to prescribe how to calculate royalties and direct use fees for geothermal production.

(b) The ONRR may audit and adjust all royalty and fee payments.

(c) In some cases, the regulations in this subpart may be inconsistent with a statute, settlement agreement, written agreement, or lease provision. If this happens, the statute, settlement agreement, written agreement, or lease provision will govern to the extent of the inconsistency. For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions apply:

(1) "Settlement agreement" means a settlement agreement between the United States and a lessee resulting from administrative or judicial litigation.

(2) "Written agreement" means a written agreement between the lessee and the ONRR Director or Assistant Secretary, Policy, Management and Budget of the Department of the Interior that:

(i) Establishes a method to determine the royalty from any lease that ONRR expects at least would approximate the value or royalty established under this subpart; and

(ii) Includes a value or gross proceeds determination under ยง 1206.364 of this subpart.
