
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart H - Geothermal Resources
###### § 1206.352 How do I calculate the royalty due on geothermal resources used for commercial production or generation of electricity?

(a) If you sold geothermal resources produced from a Class I, II, or III lease at arm's length that the purchaser uses to generate electricity, then the royalty on the geothermal resources is the gross proceeds accruing to you from the sale of the geothermal resource to the arm's-length purchaser multiplied by either:

(1) The royalty rate in your lease; or

(2) The royalty rate that BLM prescribes or calculates under 43 CFR 3211.17. See § 1206.361 for additional provisions applicable to determining gross proceeds under arm's-length sales.

(b) If you use the geothermal resource in your own power plant for the generation and sale of electricity, the following provisions apply

(1) For Class I leases, you must determine the royalty on produced geothermal resources in accordance with the first applicable of the following paragraphs:

(i) The gross proceeds accruing to you from the arm's-length sale of the electricity less applicable deductions determined under §§ 1206.353 and 1206.354 of this part, multiplied by the royalty rate in your lease. See § 1206.361 for additional provisions applicable to determining gross proceeds under arm's-length sales. Under no circumstances may the deductions reduce the royalty value of the geothermal resource to zero; or

(ii) A royalty determined by any other reasonable method approved by ONRR under § 1206.364 of this subpart.

(2) For Class II and Class III leases, the royalty on geothermal resources produced is your gross proceeds from the sale of electricity multiplied by the royalty rate BLM prescribed for your lease under 43 CFR 3211.17. See § 1206.361 for additional provisions applicable to determining gross proceeds under arm's-length sales. You may not reduce gross proceeds by any deductions.
