
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart H - Geothermal Resources
###### ยง 1206.358 What are byproduct transportation allowances?

(a) When you determine the value of byproducts at a point off the geothermal lease, unit, or participating area, you are allowed a deduction in determining value, for royalty purposes, for your reasonable, actual costs incurred to:

(1) Transport the byproducts from a Federal lease, unit, or participating area to a sales point or point of delivery that is off the lease, unit, or participating area; or

(2) Transport the byproducts from a Federal lease, unit, or participating area, or from a geothermal use facility to a byproduct recovery facility when that byproduct recovery facility is off the lease, unit, or participating area and, if applicable, from the recovery facility to a sales point or point of delivery off the lease, unit, or participating area.

(b) Costs for transporting geothermal fluids from the lease to the geothermal use facility, whether on or off the lease, are not includible in the byproduct transportation allowance.

(c)(1) When you transport byproducts from a lease, unit, participating area, or geothermal use facility to a byproduct recovery facility, you are not required to allocate transportation costs between the quantity of marketable byproducts and the rejected waste material. The byproduct transportation allowance is authorized for the total production that is transported. You must express byproduct transportation allowances as a cost per unit of marketable byproducts transported.

(2) For byproducts that are extracted on the lease, unit, participating area, or at the geothermal use facility, the byproduct transportation allowance is authorized for the total byproduct that is transported to a point of sale off the lease, unit, or participating area. You must express byproduct transportation allowances as a cost per unit of byproduct transported.

(3) You may deduct transportation costs only when you sell, deliver, or otherwise utilize the transported byproduct and report and pay royalties on the byproduct.
