
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart H - Geothermal Resources
###### ยง 1206.364 How do I request a value or gross proceeds determination?

(a) You may request a value determination from ONRR regarding any geothermal resources produced from a Class I lease or for byproducts produced from a Class I, Class II, or Class III lease. You may also request a gross proceeds determination for a Class II or Class III lease. Your request must:

(1) Be in writing;

(2) Identify specifically all leases involved, all owners of interests in those leases, and the operator(s) for those leases;

(3) Completely explain all relevant facts. You must inform ONRR of any changes to relevant facts that occur before we respond to your request;

(4) Include copies of all relevant documents;

(5) Provide your analysis of the issue(s), including citations to all relevant precedents (including adverse precedents); and

(6) Suggest your proposed gross proceeds calculation or valuation method.

(b) In response to your request:

(1) The Assistant Secretary, Policy, Management and Budget, may issue a determination; or

(2) ONRR may issue a determination; or

(3) ONRR may inform you in writing that ONRR will not provide a determination. Situations in which ONRR typically will not provide any determination include, but are not limited to:

(i) Requests for guidance on hypothetical situations; and

(ii) Matters that are the subject of pending litigation or administrative appeals.

(c)(1) A determination signed by the Assistant Secretary, Policy, Management and Budget, is binding on both you and ONRR until the Assistant Secretary modifies or rescinds it.

(2) After the Assistant Secretary issues a determination, you must make any adjustments in royalty payments that follow from the determination and, if you owe additional royalties, pay the royalties owed together with late payment interest computed under ยง 1218.302 of this chapter.

(3) A determination signed by the Assistant Secretary is the final action of the Department and is subject to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 701-706.

(d) A determination issued by ONRR is binding on ONRR and delegated States, but not on you, with respect to the specific situation addressed in the determination unless ONRR (for ONRR-issued determinations) or the Assistant Secretary modifies or rescinds it.

(1) A determination by ONRR is not an appealable decision or order under 30 CFR part 1290.

(2) If you receive an order requiring you to pay royalty on the same basis as the determination, you may appeal that order under 30 CFR part 1290.

(e) In making a determination, ONRR or the Assistant Secretary may use any of the applicable criteria in this subpart.

(f) A change in an applicable statute or regulation on which any determination is based takes precedence over the determination after the effective date of the statute or regulation, regardless of whether ONRR or the Assistant Secretary modifies or rescinds the determination.

(g) ONRR or the Assistant Secretary generally will not retroactively modify or rescind a determination issued under paragraph (d) of this section, unless:

(1) There was a misstatement or omission of material facts; or

(2) The facts subsequently developed are materially different from the facts on which the guidance was based.

(h) ONRR may make requests and replies under this section available to the public, subject to the confidentiality requirements under ยง 1206.365.
