
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart J - Indian Coal
###### § 1206.452 How do I calculate royalty value for coal that I or my affiliate sell(s) under an arm's-length or non-arm's-length contract?

(a) The value of coal under this section for royalty purposes is the gross proceeds accruing to you or your affiliate under the first arm's-length contract less an applicable transportation allowance determined under §§ 1206.460 through 1206.462 and washing allowance under §§ 1206.467 through 1206.469. You must use this paragraph (a) to value coal when:

(1) You sell under an arm's-length contract; or

(2) You sell or transfer to your affiliate or another person under a non-arm's-length contract, and that affiliate or person, or another affiliate of either of them, then sells the coal under an arm's-length contract.

(b) If you have no contract for the sale of coal subject to this section because you or your affiliate used the coal in a power plant that you or your affiliate own(s) for the generation and sale of electricity, one of the following applies:

(1) You or your affiliate sell(s) the electricity, then the value of the coal subject to this section, for royalty purposes, is the gross proceeds accruing to you for the power plant's arm's-length sales of the electricity less applicable transportation and washing deductions determined under §§ 1206.460 through 1206.462 and §§ 1206.467 through 1206.469 of this subpart and, if applicable, transmission and generation deductions determined under §§ 1206.353 and 1206.352 of subpart H.

(2) You or your affiliate do(es) not sell the electricity at arm's-length (for example you or your affiliate deliver(s) the electricity directly to the grid), then ONRR will determine the value of the coal under § 1206.454.

(i) You must propose to ONRR a method to determine the value using the procedures in § 1206.458(a).

(ii) You may use that method to determine value, for royalty purposes, until ONRR issues a determination.

(iii) After ONRR issues a determination, you must make the adjustments under § 1206.453(a)(2).

(c) If you are a coal cooperative, or a member of a coal cooperative, one of the following applies:

(1) You sell or transfer coal to another member of the coal cooperative, and that member of the coal cooperative then sells the coal under an arm's-length contract, then you must value the coal under paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) You sell or transfer coal to another member of the coal cooperative, and you, the coal cooperative, or another member of the coal cooperative use the coal in a power plant for the generation and sale of electricity, then you must value the coal under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) If you are entitled to take a washing allowance and transportation allowance for royalty purposes under this section, under no circumstances may the washing allowance plus the transportation allowance reduce the royalty value of the coal to zero.

(e) The values in this section do not apply if ONRR decides to value your coal under § 1206.454.
