
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart J - Indian Coal
###### ยง 1206.464 What are my reporting requirements under a non-arm's-length transportation contract or no written arm's-length contract?

(a) You must use a separate entry on form ONRR-4430 to notify ONRR of an allowance based on non-arm's-length transportation costs that you or your affiliate incur(s).

(b) ONRR may require you or your affiliate to submit all data used to calculate the allowance deduction. You can find recordkeeping requirements in parts 1207 and 1212 of this chapter.

(c)(1) You must submit an initial form ONRR-4293 prior to, or at the same time as, the transportation allowance determined under a non-arm's-length contract or no written arm's-length contract situation that you report on form ONRR-4430. If ONRR receives a form ONRR-4293 by the end of the month when the form ONRR-4430 is due, ONRR will consider the form to be received in a timely manner. You may base the initial form on estimated costs.

(2) The initial form ONRR-4293 is effective beginning with the production month when you are first authorized to deduct a transportation allowance and continues until the end of the calendar year or termination, modification, or amendment of the applicable contract or rate, whichever is earlier.

(3)(i) At the end of the calendar year for which you submitted a form ONRR-4293 based on estimates, you must submit another, completed form ONRR-4293 containing the actual costs for that calendar year.

(ii) If the transportation continues, you must include on form ONRR-4293 your estimated costs for the next calendar year.

(A) You must base the estimated transportation allowance on the actual costs for the previous reporting period plus or minus any adjustments based on your knowledge of decreases or increases that will affect the allowance.

(B) ONRR must receive form ONRR-4293 within three months after the end of the previous calendar year.

(d)(1) For new non-arm's-length transportation facilities or arrangements, on your initial ONRR-4293 form, you must include estimates of the allowable transportation costs for the applicable period.

(2) You must use your or your affiliate's most recently available operations data for the transportation system as your estimate, if available. If such data is not available, you must use estimates based on data for similar transportation systems.

(e) Upon ONRR's request, you must submit all data used to prepare your ONRR-4293 form. You must provide the data within a reasonable period of time, as ONRR determines.

(f) Section 1206.466 applies when you amend your form ONRR-4293 based on the actual costs.
