
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart J - Indian Coal
###### § 1206.467 What general washing allowance requirements apply to me?

(a)(1) If you determine the value of your coal under § 1206.452 of this subpart, you may take a washing allowance for the reasonable, actual costs to wash coal. The allowance is a deduction when determining coal royalty value for the costs that you incur to wash coal.

(2) Before you may take any deduction, you must submit a completed page 1 of the Coal Washing Allowance Report (Form ONRR-4292), under §§ 1206.470 and 1206.471 of this subpart. You may claim a washing allowance retroactively for a period of not more than three months prior to the first day of the month when you have filed form ONRR-4292 with ONRR.

(3) You may not use a washing allowance that was in effect before January 1, 2017. You must use the provisions of this subpart to determine your washing allowance.

(b) You may not:

(1) Take an allowance for the costs of washing lease production that is not royalty bearing.

(2) Disproportionately allocate washing costs to Indian leases. You must allocate washing costs to washed coal attributable to each Indian lease by multiplying the input ratio determined under § 1206.451(e)(2)(i) by the total allowable costs.

(c)(1) You must express washing allowances for coal as a dollar-value equivalent per short ton of coal washed.

(2) If you do not base your or your affiliate's payments for washing under an arm's-length contract on a dollar-per-unit basis, you must convert whatever consideration that you or your affiliate paid into a dollar-value equivalent.

(d) ONRR may determine your washing allowance under § 1206.454 because:

(1) There is misconduct by or between the contracting parties;

(2) ONRR determines that the consideration that you or your affiliate paid under an arm's-length washing contract does not reflect the reasonable cost of the washing because you breached your duty to market the coal for the mutual benefit of yourself and the lessor by washing your coal at a cost that is unreasonably high. We may consider a washing allowance to be unreasonably high if it is 10 percent higher than the highest other reasonable measures of washing, including, but not limited to, washing allowances reported to ONRR and costs for coal washed in the same plant or other plants in the region; or

(3) ONRR cannot determine if you properly calculated a washing allowance under §§ 1206.467 through 1206.469 for any reason, including, but not limited to, your or your affiliate's failure to provide documents that ONRR requests under 30 CFR part 1212, subpart E.

(e) You may only claim a washing allowance if you sell the washed coal and report and pay royalties.
