
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1206 - PRODUCT VALUATION
##### Subpart J - Indian Coal
###### ยง 1206.470 What are my reporting requirements under an arm's-length washing contract?

(a) You must use a separate entry on form ONRR-4430 to notify ONRR of an allowance based on washing costs that you or your affiliate incur(s).

(b) ONRR may require you or your affiliate to submit arm's-length washing contracts, production agreements, operating agreements, and related documents.

(c) You can find recordkeeping requirements in parts 1207 and 1212 of this chapter.

(d)(1) You must file an initial form ONRR-4292 prior to, or at the same time as, the washing allowance determined under an arm's-length contract or no written arm's-length contract situation that you report on form ONRR-4430. If ONRR receives a form ONRR-4292 by the end of the month when the form ONRR-4430 is due, ONRR will consider the form to be received in a timely manner.

(2) The initial form ONRR-4292 is effective beginning with the production month when you are first authorized to deduct a washing allowance and continues until the end of the calendar year, or until the termination, modification, or amendment of the applicable contract or rate, whichever is earlier.

(3) After the initial period that ONRR first authorized you to deduct a washing allowance, and for succeeding periods, you must submit the entire form ONRR-4292 by the earlier of the following:

(i) Within three months after the end of the calendar year.

(ii) After the termination, modification, or amendment of the applicable contract or rate.

(4) You may request to use an allowance for a longer period than that required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(i) You may use that allowance beginning with the production month following the month when ONRR received your request to use the allowance for a longer period until ONRR decides whether to approve the longer period.

(ii) ONRR's decision whether or not to approve a longer period is not appealable under 30 CFR part 1290.

(iii) If ONRR does not approve the longer period, you must adjust your transportation allowance under ยง 1206.466.
