
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 46 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS ENGAGED IN SHELL DREDGING OR EMPLOYED AT SAND, GRAVEL, SURFACE STONE, SURFACE CLAY, COLLOIDAL PHOSPHATE, OR SURFACE LIMESTONE MINES.
##### ยง 46.4 Training plan implementation.

(a) You must ensure that each program, course of instruction, or training session is:

(1) Conducted in accordance with the written training plan;

(2) Presented by a competent person; and

(3) Presented in language understood by the miners who are receiving the training.

(b) You may conduct your own training programs or may arrange for training to be conducted by: state or federal agencies; associations of production-operators or independent contractors; miners' representatives; consultants; manufacturers' representatives; private associations; educational institutions; or other training providers.

(c) You may substitute, as applicable, health and safety training required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), or other federal or state agencies to meet requirements under this part. This training must be relevant to training subjects required in this part. You must document the training in accordance with ยง 46.9 of this part.

(d) Training methods may consist of classroom instruction, instruction at the mine, interactive computer-based instruction or other innovative training methods, alternative training technologies, or any combination of training methods.

(e) Employee health and safety meetings, including informal health and safety talks and instruction, may be credited under this part toward either new miner training, newly hired experienced miner training, or annual refresher training requirements, as appropriate, provided that you document each training session in accordance with ยง 46.9 of this part. In recording the duration of training, you must include only the portion of the session actually spent in training.
