
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 46 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS ENGAGED IN SHELL DREDGING OR EMPLOYED AT SAND, GRAVEL, SURFACE STONE, SURFACE CLAY, COLLOIDAL PHOSPHATE, OR SURFACE LIMESTONE MINES.
##### ยง 46.5 New miner training.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, you must provide each new miner with no less than 24 hours of training as prescribed by paragraphs (b), (c), and (d). Miners who have not yet received the full 24 hours of new miner training must work where an experienced miner can observe that the new miner is performing his or her work in a safe and healthful manner.

(e) Practice under the close observation of a competent person may be used to fulfill the requirement for training on the health and safety aspects of an assigned task in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, if hazard recognition training specific to the assigned task is given before the miner performs the task.

(f) A new miner who has less than 12 cumulative months of surface mining or equivalent experience and has completed new miner training under this section or under ยง 48.25 of this title within 36 months before beginning work at the mine does not have to repeat new miner training. However, you must provide the miner with training specified in paragraph (b) of this section before the miner begins work at the mine.

(g) A new miner training course completed under ยง 48.5 or ยง 48.25 of this title may be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, if the course was completed by the miner within 36 months before beginning work at the mine; and the course is relevant to the subjects specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
