
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1208 - SALE OF FEDERAL ROYALTY OIL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1208.4 Royalty oil sales to eligible refiners.
####### Sale to eligible refiners.

(b)(1) Upon a determination by the Secretary under paragraph (a) of this section that eligible refiners do not have access to adequate supplies of crude oil at equitable prices, the Secretary, at his or her discretion, may elect to take in kind some or all of the royalty oil accruing to the United States from oil and gas leases on Federal lands onshore and on the OCS. The Secretary may authorize ONRR to offer royalty oil for sale to eligible refiners only for use in their refineries and not for resale (other than under an exchange agreement).

(2) All sales of royalty oil from onshore leases will be priced at the royalty value that would have been determined for that oil pursuant to 30 CFR part 1206 had the royalties been paid in value rather than taken in kind. All sales of royalty oil from OCS leases will be priced at the fair market value of the oil including associated transportation costs to the designated delivery point, if applicable.

(3) An eligible refiner must have a representative at a sale in order to participate. The Secretary may, at his or her discretion, establish purchase limitations and withhold any royalty oil from any offering.

(c) Upon a determination by the Secretary under paragraph (a) of this section that eligible refiners do have access to adequate supplies of crude oil at equitable prices, ONRR will not take royalties in kind from oil and gas leases for exclusive sale to such refiners. Such determinations may be made on a regional basis.
