
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 46 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS ENGAGED IN SHELL DREDGING OR EMPLOYED AT SAND, GRAVEL, SURFACE STONE, SURFACE CLAY, COLLOIDAL PHOSPHATE, OR SURFACE LIMESTONE MINES.
##### ยง 46.6 Newly hired experienced miner training.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, you must provide each newly hired experienced miner with training as prescribed by paragraphs (b) and (c).

(d) Practice under the close observation of a competent person may be used to fulfill the requirement for training on the health and safety aspects of an assigned task in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, if hazard recognition training specific to the assigned task is given before the miner performs the task.

(e) In addition to subjects specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, you may provide training on any other subjects that promote occupational health and safety for miners.

(f) You are not required to provide a newly hired experienced miner who returns to the same mine, following an absence of 12 months or less, with the training specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Instead you must provide such miner with training on any changes at the mine that occurred during the miner's absence that could adversely affect the miner's health or safety. This training must be given before the miner begins work at the mine. If the miner missed any part of annual refresher training under ยง 46.8 of this part during the absence, you must provide the miner with the missed training no later than 90 calendar days after the miner begins work at the mine.
