
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1208 - SALE OF FEDERAL ROYALTY OIL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1208.6 General application procedures.

(a) To apply for the purchase of royalty oil, an applicant must file a Form MMS-4070 with ONRR in accordance with instructions provided in the "Notice of Availability of Royalty Oil" and in accordance with any instructions issued by ONRR for completion of Form MMS-4070. The applicant will be required to submit a letter of intent from a qualified financial institution stating that it would be granted surety coverage for the royalty oil for which it is applying, or other such proof of surety coverage, as deemed acceptable by ONRR. The letter of intent must be submitted with a completed Form MMS-4070.

(b) In addition to any other application requirements specified in the Notice, the following information is required on Form MMS-4070 at the time of application:

(1) Name and address of the applicant, the location of the applicant's refinery or refineries, and disclosure of the applicant's affiliation with any other persons.

(2) The capacity of the applicant's refineries in barrels of crude oil throughput per calendar day and a tabulation for the past 12 months of oil processed for each refinery, identified as to source (from own production or from other sources).

(3) Identification of any Government royalty oil contracts under which the applicant is currently receiving royalty oil.

(4) Identification of the locations (area/region and State) where the applicant proposes to purchase royalty oil, the volume of oil requested, and the specific refineries in which the oil will be refined.

(5) A certification from the applicant that it is an eligible refiner for the purchase of Government royalty oil, as defined in ยง 1208.2 of this part.
