
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1208 - SALE OF FEDERAL ROYALTY OIL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1208.8 Transportation and delivery.

(a) The lessee shall deliver royalty oil from onshore leases to the purchaser at a point on or adjacent to the lease pursuant to the terms of the lease. If the purchaser does not have access to its onshore royalty oil entitlement at facilities on or adjacent to the lease, the operator of the lease must designate an alternate delivery point at no additional cost to the purchaser or the Government. The purchaser must have physical access to the oil at the alternate delivery point and such point must be approved by ONRR.

(b) The lessee shall deliver royalty oil from section 8 offshore leases issued after September 1969 at a delivery point to be designated by ONRR. The lessee shall deliver royalty oil from section 8 offshore leases issued before October 1969 or from section 6 leases at a delivery point to be designated by the lessee. If the delivery point is on or immediately adjacent to the lease, the royalty oil will be delivered without cost to the Federal Government as an undivided portion of production in marketable condition at pipeline connections or other facilities provided by the lessee, unless other arrangements are approved by ONRR. If the delivery point is not on or immediately adjacent to the lease, ONRR will reimburse the lessee for the reasonable cost of transportation to such point in an amount not to exceed the transportation allowance determined pursuant to 30 CFR part 1206. The ONRR will include such transportation costs in the price charged for the oil taken in kind to reflect the value of the oil at the delivery point. Arrangements for delivery of the royalty oil from, or exchange of the oil at, the delivery point, and related transportation costs, are the responsibility of the purchaser of the royalty oil. In addition, quality differentials between the royalty oil to which a purchaser is entitled and the oil which is made available at the delivery point are matters to be resolved between the purchaser and the operator.

(c) When the purchaser has physical access to the royalty oil at the delivery point, the lessee shall deliver such oil in marketable condition at pipeline connections or other facilities designated by ONRR. If the lessee is unable to provide the royalty portion of actual production from the lease, the lessee must provide crude oil to the purchaser which is equivalent in volume or value to the royalty oil to which the purchaser is entitled. The lessee will deliver the royalty oil to the purchaser during normal operating hours and in reasonable quantities and intervals. The lessee will make available and the purchaser will accept delivery of the royalty oil entitlement no later than the last day of the calendar month immediately following the calendar month in which the oil was produced. Failure to accept deliveries shall constitute grounds for the termination of the contract.

(d) Upon termination of deliveries under a royalty oil contract, the transportation allowance and delivery point designation authorized by this section no longer will remain in effect.
