
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 46 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS ENGAGED IN SHELL DREDGING OR EMPLOYED AT SAND, GRAVEL, SURFACE STONE, SURFACE CLAY, COLLOIDAL PHOSPHATE, OR SURFACE LIMESTONE MINES.
##### § 46.9 Records of training.

(a) You must record and certify on MSHA Form 5000-23, or on a form that contains the information listed in paragraph (b) of this section, that each miner has received training required under this part.

(b) The form must include:

(1) The printed full name of the person trained;

(2) The type of training, the duration of the training, the date the training was received, the name of the competent person who provided the training:

(3) The name of the mine or independent contractor, MSHA mine identification number or independent contractor identification number, and location of training (if an institution, the name and address of the institution).

(4) The statement, "False certification is punishable under § 110(a) and (f) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act," printed in bold letters and in a conspicuous manner; and

(5) A statement signed by the person designated in the MSHA-approved training plan for the mine as responsible for health and safety training, that states "I certify that the above training has been completed."

(c) You must make a record of training under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section-

(1) For new miner training under § 46.5, no later than-

(i) when the miner begins work at the mine as required under § 46.5(b);

(ii) 60 calendar days after the miner begins work at the mine as required under § 46.5(c); and

(iii) 90 calendar days after the miner begins work at the mine as required under § 46.5(d), if applicable.

(2) For newly hired experienced miner training under § 46.6, no later than-

(i) when the miner begins work at the mine; and

(ii) 60 calendar days after the miner begins work at the mine.

(3) Upon completion of new task training under § 46.7;

(4) After each session of annual refresher training under § 46.8; and

(5) Upon completion by miners of site-specific hazard awareness training under § 46.11.

(d) You must ensure that all records of training under paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section are certified under paragraph (b)(5) of this section and a copy provided to the miner-

(1) Upon completion of the 24 hours of new miner training;

(2) Upon completion of newly hired experienced miner training;

(3) At least once every 12 months for new task training, or upon request by the miner, if applicable;

(4) Upon completion of the 8 hours of annual refresher training; and

(5) Upon completion by miners of site-specific hazard awareness training.

(e) False certification that training was completed is punishable under § 110(a) and (f) of the Act.

(f) When a miner leaves your employ, you must provide each miner with a copy of his or her training records and certificates upon request.

(g) You must make available at the mine a copy of each miner's training records and certificates for inspection by us and for examination by miners and their representatives. If training certificates are not maintained at the mine, you must be able to provide the certificates upon request by us, miners, or their representatives.

(h) You must maintain copies of training certificates and training records for each currently employed miner during his or her employment, except records and certificates of annual refresher training under § 46.8, which you must maintain for only two years. You must maintain copies of training certificates and training records for at least 60 calendar days after a miner terminates employment.

(i) You are not required to make records under this section of site-specific hazard awareness training you provide under § 46.11 of this part to persons who are not miners under § 46.2. However, you must be able to provide evidence to us, upon request, that the training was provided, such as the training materials that are used; copies of written information distributed to persons upon their arrival at the mine; or visitor log books that indicate that training has been provided.
