
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1210 - FORMS AND REPORTS
##### Subpart C - Production Reports - Oil and Gas
###### ยง 1210.102 What production reports must I submit?

(a) Form ONRR-4054, Oil and Gas Operations Report. If you operate a Federal or Indian onshore or OCS oil and gas lease or federally approved unit or communitization agreement that contains one or more wells that are not permanently plugged or abandoned, you must submit Form ONRR-4054 to ONRR:

(1) You must submit Form ONRR-4054 for each well for each calendar month, beginning with the month in which you complete drilling, unless:

(i) You have only test production from a drilling well; or

(ii) The ONRR tells you in writing to report differently.

(2) You must continue reporting until:

(i) The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) or ONRR approves all wells as permanently plugged or abandoned or the lease or unit or communitization agreement is terminated; and

(ii) You dispose of all inventory.

(b) Form ONRR-4058, Production Allocation Schedule Report. If you operate an offshore facility measurement point (FMP) handling production from a Federal oil and gas lease or federally approved unit agreement that is commingled (with approval) with production from any other source prior to measurement for royalty determination, you must file Form ONRR-4058.

(1) You must submit Form ONRR-4058 for each calendar month beginning with the month in which you first handle production covered by this section.

(2) Form ONRR-4058 is not required whenever all of the following conditions are met:

(i) All leases involved are Federal leases;

(ii) All leases have the same fixed royalty rate;

(iii) All leases are operated by the same operator;

(iv) The facility measurement device is operated by the same person as the leases/agreements;

(v) Production has not been previously measured for royalty determination; and

(vi) The production is not subsequently commingled and measured for royalty determination at an FMP for which Form ONRR-4058 is required under this part.
