
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter I - Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
### Subchapter H - Education and Training
#### PART 46 - TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF MINERS ENGAGED IN SHELL DREDGING OR EMPLOYED AT SAND, GRAVEL, SURFACE STONE, SURFACE CLAY, COLLOIDAL PHOSPHATE, OR SURFACE LIMESTONE MINES.
##### ยง 46.11 Site-specific hazard awareness training.

(a) You must provide site-specific hazard awareness training before any person specified under this section is exposed to mine hazards.

(b) You must provide site-specific hazard awareness training, as appropriate, to any person who is not a miner as defined by ยง 46.2 of this part but is present at a mine site, including:

(1) Office or staff personnel;

(2) Scientific workers;

(3) Delivery workers;

(4) Customers, including commercial over-the-road truck drivers;

(5) Construction workers or employees of independent contractors who are not miners under ยง 46.2 of this part;

(6) Maintenance or service workers who do not work at the mine site for frequent or extended periods; and

(7) Vendors or visitors.

(c) You must provide miners, such as drillers or blasters, who move from one mine to another mine while remaining employed by the same production-operator or independent contractor with site-specific hazard awareness training for each mine.

(d) Site-specific hazard awareness training is information or instructions on the hazards a person could be exposed to while at the mine, as well as applicable emergency procedures. The training must address site-specific health and safety risks, such as unique geologic or environmental conditions, recognition and avoidance of hazards such as electrical and powered-haulage hazards, traffic patterns and control, and restricted areas; and warning and evacuation signals, evacuation and emergency procedures, or other special safety procedures.

(e) You may provide site-specific hazard awareness training through the use of written hazard warnings, oral instruction, signs and posted warnings, walkaround training, or other appropriate means that alert persons to site-specific hazards at the mine.

(f) Site-specific hazard awareness training is not required for any person who is accompanied at all times by an experienced miner who is familiar with hazards specific to the mine site.
