
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1210 - FORMS AND REPORTS
##### Subpart E - Production and Royalty Reports - Solid Minerals
###### ยง 1210.201 How do I submit Form ONRR-4430, Solid Minerals Production and Royalty Report?
####### When to submit.

(b)(1) Unless your lease terms specify a different frequency for royalty payments, you must submit your Form ONRR-4430 on or before the end of the month following the month in which you produce any solid mineral, sell any solid mineral, or hold any solid mineral production in stockpile or inventory. However, if the last day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, your Form ONRR-4430 is due on the next business day.

(2) If your lease terms specify a different frequency for royalty payment, then you must submit your Form ONRR-4430 on or before the date on which you must pay royalty under the terms of the lease.

(3) You must submit your Form ONRR-4430 for payment of rents (other than those for which you receive from ONRR a Courtesy Notice as defined in ยง 1218.51(a) of this chapter), minimum royalty, deferred bonus, advance royalty, minimum royalty payable in advance, settlements, recoupments, and other financial obligations on or before the date on which you must pay those obligations under the terms of the lease.

(4) If the information on a previously reported Form ONRR-4430 is no longer correct, you must submit a revised Form ONRR-4430 by the last day of the month in which you learn that the previously reported information is no longer correct, except when the last day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday. If the last day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, your revised Form ONRR-4430 is due on the first business day of the following month.
