
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1218 - COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES, RENTALS, BONUSES, AND OTHER MONIES DUE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart B - Oil and Gas, General
###### ยง 1218.50 Timing of payment.

(a) Royalty payments are due at the end of the month following the month during which the oil and gas is produced and sold except when the last day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday. In such cases, payments are due on the first business day of the succeeding month. Rental payments are due as specified by the lease terms.

(b) Invoices will be issued and payable as final collection actions. Payments made on an invoice are due as specified by the invoice.

(c) All payments to ONRR are due as specified and are not deferred or suspended by reason of an appeal having been filed unless such deferral or suspension is approved in writing by an authorized ONRR official.

(d)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section and corresponding lease terms and ยง 1210.52 of this chapter, the due date for submittal of royalty payments and Reports of Sales and Royalty Remittance (Form ONRR-2014) for the production months of July, August, September, and October 2005 for Federal offshore and onshore oil and gas leases by oil and gas lessees or royalty payors who make the certification required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section is extended until January 3, 2006.

(2) The extended due dates in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will apply to royalty payments and Reports of Sales and Royalty Remittance (Form ONRR-2014) by any lessee or royalty payor who certifies that a hurricane that struck the Gulf of Mexico coast of the United States in August or September 2005 disrupted the lessee's or payor's operations to the extent that it prevented the lessee or royalty payor from making an accurate royalty payment or submitting an accurate Form ONRR-2014.

(3) A lessee's or royalty payor's certification under paragraph (d)(2) of this section that it is unable to generate and submit either an accurate royalty report or an accurate royalty payment will extend the due date for both royalty reporting and royalty payment.

(4) Paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section do not apply to Indian leases or to Federal leases for minerals other than oil and gas.

(5) You should submit your certifications under paragraph (d)(2) of this section to Financial Management, Office of Natural Resources Revenue, P.O. Box 25627, Denver, CO 80225-0627.

(e)(1) A lessee or royalty payor who submits a certification required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section may rely on the extended due dates prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless and until ONRR notifies the lessee or royalty payor or operator that ONRR does not accept the certification.

(2) If ONRR notifies the lessee or royalty payor that ONRR does not accept the lessee's or royalty payor's certification under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the due date for royalty payments and Reports of Sales and Royalty Remittance will be the date specified in the notice.
