
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1218 - COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES, RENTALS, BONUSES, AND OTHER MONIES DUE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart B - Oil and Gas, General
###### ยง 1218.51 How to make payments.
####### How to complete a non-EFT payment.

(c)(1) Make any payment on a Federal lease payable to: "Department of the Interior-Office of Natural Resources Revenue" or "DOI-ONRR."

(2) For an Indian allottee payment, send a separate payment for each Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) agency or area office represented by the leases on your report or invoice document. You must include the name of the applicable BIA agency or area office on your payment. Make your payment document payable to: "Department of the Interior-Office of Natural Resources Revenue for BIA [Name] Agency (allotted)" or "DOI-ONRR for BIA [Name] Agency (allotted)."

(3) For an Indian tribal payment other than a lockbox payment, send a separate payment for each tribe represented by the leases on your report or invoice document. You must include the name of the Indian tribe on your payment. Make it payable to: "Department of the Interior-Office of Natural Resources Revenue for BIA [Name of Tribe]" or "DOI-ONRR for BIA [Name of Tribe]."

(4) For an Indian tribal lockbox payment, follow the instructions ONRR provides you on how to report and make the lockbox payment. These instructions are specific to each tribe's lockbox written agreement with the bank authorized to receive payments on the tribe's mineral leases. You will receive these instructions from ONRR when you are required to use a tribal lockbox for reports and payments.
