
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1218 - COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES, RENTALS, BONUSES, AND OTHER MONIES DUE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart B - Oil and Gas, General
###### ยง 1218.51 How to make payments.
####### How to prepare and what to include on your payment document.

(f)(1) For Form ONRR-2014 payments, you must include both your payor code and your payor-assigned document number.

(2) For invoice payments, including RIK invoice payments, you must include both your payor code and invoice document identification.

(3) For bonus payments:

(i) For one-fifth bonus payments for offshore oil, gas, and sulphur leases, follow the instructions in the Notice of Lease Offering.

(ii) For payment of the four-fifths bonus for an offshore lease, use EFT and follow the instructions in ยง 1218.155(c).

(iii) For the successful bidder's bonus in the competitive sale of a coal, geothermal, or offshore mineral (other than oil, gas or sulfur) lease, follow the instructions and terms of the Notice of Competitive Lease Sale.

(iv) For installment payments of deferred bonuses, you must use EFT.

(4) If you are paying a lease rental you must:

(i) See ยง 1218.155(c) for instructions on how to pay first-year rentals of an offshore oil, gas, or sulfur lease;

(ii) See the Notice of Lease Offering for instructions on how to pay first-year rentals other than those covered in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section.

(iii) Include the ONRR Courtesy Notice, when provided, or write your payor code and government-assigned lease number on the payment document when paying a rental that is not reported on Form ONRR-2014 and not paid by EFT.
