
# Title 30 - Mineral Resources
## Chapter XII - Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior
### Subchapter A - Natural Resources Revenue
#### PART 1218 - COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES, RENTALS, BONUSES, AND OTHER MONIES DUE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### Subpart B - Oil and Gas, General
###### ยง 1218.53 Recoupment of overpayments on Indian mineral leases.

(a) Whenever an overpayment is made under an Indian oil and gas lease, a payor may recoup the overpayment through a recoupment on Form ONRR-2014 against the current month's royalties or other revenues owed on the same lease. However, for any month a payor may not recoup more than 50 percent of the royalties or other revenues owed in that month under an individual allotted lease or more than 100 percent of the royalties or other revenues owed in that month under a tribal lease.

(b) With written permission authorized by tribal statute or resolution, a payor may recoup an overpayment against royalties or other revenues owed in that month under other leases for which that tribe is the lessor. A copy of the tribe's written permission must be furnished to ONRR pursuant to instructions for reporting recoupments in the ONRR revenue reporter handbook. See part 1210 of this chapter. Recouping overpayments on one allotted lease from royalties paid to another allotted lease is specifically prohibited.

(c) Overpayments subject to recoupment under this section include all payments made in excess of the required payment for royalty, rental, bonus, or other amounts owed as specified by statute, regulation, order, or terms of an Indian mineral lease.

(d) The ONRR Director or his/her designee may order any payor to not recoup any amount for such reasonable period of time as may be necessary for ONRR to review the nature and amount of any claimed overpayment.
