
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter A - Acquisition
##### PART 2 - PILOT PROGRAM POLICY
###### ยง 2.1 Purpose.

Section 809 of Public Law 101-510, "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991," as amended by section 811 of Public Law 102-484, "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993" and Public Law 103-160, "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994," authorizes the Secretary of Defense to conduct the Defense Acquisition Pilot Program. In accordance with section 809 of Public Law 101-510, the Secretary may designate defense acquisition programs for participation in the Defense Acquisition Pilot Program.

(a) The purpose of the pilot programs is to determine the potential for increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the acquisition process. Pilot programs shall be conducted in accordance with the standard commercial, industrial practices. As used in this policy, the term "standard commercial, industrial practice" refers to any acquisition management practice, process, or procedure that is used by commercial companies to produce and sell goods and services in the commercial marketplace. This definition purposely implies a broad range of potential activities to adopt commercial practices, including regulatory and statutory streamlining, to eliminate unique Government requirements and practices such as government-unique contracting policies and practices, government-unique specifications and standards, and reliance on cost determination rather than price analysis.

(b) Standard commercial, industrial practices include, but are not limited to:

(1) Innovative contracting policies and practices;

(2) Performance and commercial specifications and standards;

(3) Innovative budget policies;

(4) Establishing fair and reasonable prices without cost data;

(5) Maintenance of long-term relationships with quality suppliers;

(6) Acquisition of commercial and non-developmental items (including components); and

(7) Other best commercial practices.
