
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter N - Freedom of Information Act Program
##### PART 286h - RELEASE OF ACQUISITION-RELATED INFORMATION
###### ยง 286h.3 Policy.
####### Planning, programming, and budgetary information.

(5)(i) Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS) documents and supporting data bases are not to be disclosed outside the Department of Defense (DoD) and other governmental agencies directly involved in the defense planning and resource allocation process (e.g., the Office of Management and Budget). PPBS papers and associated data set forth the details of proposed programs and plans. Access to this material by those not directly involved in the PPBS process undermines the confidentiality necessary for the Secretary and Deputy Secretary to obtain candid advice on the content of the defense program. Also, access to PPBS information by private firms seeking contracts with the Department may pose ethical, even criminal, problems for those involved and reduce effective competition in the contract awards process.

(ii)(A) Requests for exceptions to this limitation may be granted on a case-by-case basis to meet compelling needs, after coordination with the Office of General Counsel, by the Head of the OSD office responsible for the PPBS phase to which the document or data base pertains; the Under Secretary of Defense (Policy) for the planning phase; the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Program Analysis and Evaluation) for programming; and the Comptroller, DoD for budgeting. A list of the current major documents and data bases for each PPBS phase is in paragraph (B)(5)(11)(C) of this section; all other PPBS materials are also controlled under this policy.

(B) Disclosure of PPBS information to Congress and the General Accounting Office (GAO) is covered by statute and other procedures.

(C) Major PPBS Documents and Data Bases by Phase.
