
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 310 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### Subpart B - Requests for Access and Amendment to Records
####### ยง 310.6 Appeals from denials of requests for access to records.

(a) If the requester is dissatisfied with a DoD Component's response, the requester can appeal an adverse determination denying the request to the appellate authority listed in the notification of denial letter. The appeal must be made in writing, and it must be postmarked within 60 calendar days of the date of the letter denying the initial request for records. The letter of appeal should include a copy of the DoD Component's determination (including the assigned request number, if known). For the quickest possible handling, the appeal letter and the envelope should be marked: "Privacy Act Appeal."

(b) The appellant will be notified of the decision on his or her appeal in writing. If the decision affirms the adverse determination in whole or in part, the notification will include a brief statement of the reason(s) for the affirmation, including any exemptions applied, and will inform the appellant of the Privacy Act provisions for judicial review of the appellate authority's decision. If the adverse determination is reversed or modified, in whole or in part, the appellant will be notified in writing of this decision and the request will be reprocessed in accordance with that appeal decision.

(c) In order to seek a judicial review of a denial of a request for access to records, a requester must first file an appeal under this section.

(d) An appeal ordinarily will not be acted on if the request becomes a matter of litigation.
