
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 310 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### Subpart B - Requests for Access and Amendment to Records
####### § 310.7 Requests for amendment or correction of records.

(a) If the record is not subject to amendment and correction as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual may make a request for amendment or correction of a DoD Component's record about that individual by writing directly to the DoD Component that maintains the record as identified in the published SORN applicable to the record. The request should identify each particular record in question, state the amendment or correction that is sought, and state why the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete without the correction. The individual will also need to verify identity in the same manner as described in §§ 310.3(c) through (d). Factual documentation that is helpful to the DoD Component privacy officials should be submitted with the request. If it is believed that the same record exists in more than one system of records, this should be stated in the request, and the request should be addressed to each DoD Component that maintains a system of records containing the record as noted in this paragraph.

(b) Certain records are not subject to amendment or correction under the Privacy Act:

(1) Proceedings and determinations of courts-martial, military tribunal, or Military Boards of Correction are not generally subject to amendment or correction under the Privacy Act.

(2) Records in systems of records that have been exempted from amendment and correction under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k) are not subject to amendment or correction.

(3) The amendment process is not intended to permit the alteration of records presented in the course of judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings such as the adjudication process for personnel security clearances or contesting grades in academic records. Any amendments or changes to these records normally are made through the specific procedures established for the amendment of such records.

(4) Nothing in the amendment process is intended or designed to permit a collateral attack upon what has already been the subject of a judicial or quasi-judicial determination. However, while the individual may not attack the accuracy of the judicial or quasi-judicial determination under this part, he or she may challenge the accuracy of the recording of that action.

(c) An individual requesting amendment or correction of records will receive a written acknowledgment of receipt of the request within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), as required by the Privacy Act. The response to the request may be made in lieu of the acknowledgment of receipt provided the response is made within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). The response to the request must be made promptly and indicate whether the request is granted or denied.

(d) If the request for amendment or correction is granted in whole or in part, the response to the individual will receive a description or copy of the amendment or correction made and, if a copy of the amended or corrected record is not included in the response, notification of the right to obtain a copy of the corrected or amended record in disclosable form.

(e) If the request for amendment or correction is denied in whole or in part, the response to the individual will include a signed letter stating:

(1) The reason(s) for the denial; and

(2) The procedure for appeal of the denial under paragraph (f) of this section, including the name, position title and business address of the official who will act on the appeal.

(f) An individual may appeal the denial of a request for amendment or correction to the individual's record to the appellate authority at the address listed in the notification of denial letter, in the same manner as for a denial of a request for access to records (see § 310.6). The appeal determination shall be made within 30 working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date of the appeal, unless the period is extended for good cause. If the appeal is denied in whole or in part, the individual will be advised of the right to file a Statement of Disagreement as described in paragraph (g) of this section, and of the right under the Privacy Act for judicial review of the decision.

(g) If an appeal under this section is denied in whole or in part, the individual has the right to file a Statement of Disagreement that states the reason(s) for disagreeing with the DoD Component's denial of the request for amendment or correction. Statements of Disagreement must be concise, must clearly identify each part of any record that is disputed, and should generally be no longer than one typed page. The Statement of Disagreement must be sent to the DoD Component holding the respective record. The Statement of Disagreement will be filed or notated in the system of records, and an annotation to the record itself will indicate the existence and location of the Statement of Disagreement.

(h) Notifications of amendment/correction or statements of disagreement will be made to all persons, organizations, and agencies to which the record was previously disclosed if an accounting of that disclosure was made in accordance with subsection (c) of the Privacy Act and § 310.9. If an individual has filed a Statement of Disagreement, a copy of the statement will be appended to the disputed record whenever the record is disclosed, and a concise statement of the reason(s) for denying the request to amend or correct the record may also be appended.
