
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 310 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### Subpart C - Exemption Rules
####### ยง 310.15 Department of the Army exemptions.
######## i.e.

(C) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3)-For an authorized Routine Use,the "Routine Use Exception." The Routine Use must be listed in the applicable system of records notice published in theand the purpose of the disclosure must be compatible with the purpose for the published Routine Use.

(D) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(4)-To the Bureau of the Census to plan or carry out a census or survey, or related activity pursuant to Title 13 of the U.S. Code.

(E) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(5)-To a recipient who has provided the Department of the Army or DoD with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable.

(F) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(6)-To the National Archives and Records Administration as a record that has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government, or for evaluation by the Archivist of the United States or the designee of the Archivist to determine whether the record has such value.

(G) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7)-To another agency or instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity, if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the Department of the Army or DoD specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought.

(H) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(8)-To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if upon such disclosure, notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual.

(I) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(9)-To either House of Congress, or, to the extent the matter is within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, or any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee. Requests from a Congressional member acting on behalf of a constituent are not included in this exception, but may be covered by a routine use exception to the Privacy Act (See applicable Army system of records notice).

(J) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(10)-To the Comptroller General or authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the Government Accountability Office.

(K) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(11)-Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The order must be signed by a judge.

(L) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12)-To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with section 3711(e) of Title 31 of the U.S. Code. The name, address, SSN, and other information identifying the individual; amount, status, and history of the claim; and the agency or program under which the case arose may be disclosed. However, before doing so, agencies must complete a series of steps designed to validate the debt and to offer the individual an opportunity to repay it.
