
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 310 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### Subpart C - Exemption Rules
####### ยง 310.16 Department of the Navy exemptions.
######## Reasons.

(iii)(A) Subsection (d) because granting individuals access to information relating to the preparation and conduct of litigation would impair the development and implementation of legal strategy. Accordingly, such records are exempt under the attorney-client privilege. Disclosure might also compromise on-going investigations and reveal confidential informants. Additionally, granting access to the record subject would seriously impair the Navy's ability to negotiate settlements or pursue other civil remedies. Amendment is inappropriate because the litigation files contain official records including transcripts, court orders, investigatory materials, evidentiary materials such as exhibits, decisional memorandum and other case-related papers. Administrative due process could not be achieved by the "ex parte" correction of such materials.

(B) Subsection (e)(1) because it is not possible in all instances to determine relevancy or necessity of specific information in the early stages of case development. What appeared relevant and necessary when collected, ultimately may be deemed unnecessary upon assessment in the context of devising legal strategy. Information collected during civil litigation investigations which is not used during subject case is often retained to provide leads in other cases or to establish patterns of activity.

(C) Subsections (f)(2), (3), and (4) because this record system is exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
