
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 310 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### Subpart C - Exemption Rules
####### ยง 310.22 Defense Security Service (DSS) exemptions.
######## Reasons.

(iii)(A) From subsection (c)(3) because giving the individual access to the disclosure accounting could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and nature of the investigation and reveal investigative or prosecutive interest by other agencies, particularly in a joint-investigation situation. This would seriously impede or compromise the investigation and case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate with the investigators; lead to suppression, alteration, fabrication, or destruction of evidence; and endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, law enforcement personnel and their families.

(B) From subsection (d) because the application of these provisions could impede or compromise an investigation or prosecution if the subject of an investigation had access to the records or were able to use such rules to learn of the existence of an investigation before it would be completed. In addition, the mere notice of the fact of an investigation could inform the subject and others that their activities are under or may become the subject of an investigation and could enable the subjects to avoid detection or apprehension, to influence witnesses improperly, to destroy evidence, or to fabricate testimony.

(C) From subsection (e)(1) because during an investigation it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear. In other cases, what may appear to be a relevant and necessary piece of information may become irrelevant in light of further investigation. In addition, during the course of an investigation, the investigator may obtain information that related primarily to matters under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency, and that information may not be reasonably segregated. In the interest of effective law enforcement, DSS investigators should retain this information, since it can aid in establishing patterns of criminal activity and can provide valuable leads for Federal and other law enforcement agencies.

(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f) because this system is exempt from subsection (d) of the Act, concerning access to records. These requirements are inapplicable to the extent that these records will be exempt from these subsections. However, DSS has published information concerning its notification and access procedures, and the records source categories because under certain circumstances, DSS could decide it is appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of his/her records in this system of records.

(6) [Reserved]
