
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Children with disabilities who are placed in a non-DoDEA school or facility pursuant to an IEP.

(15)

(i) Children with disabilities who are eligible to receive a DoDEA school education, but are placed in a non-DoD school or facility by DoDEA because a FAPE cannot be provided by DoD, shall have all the rights of children with disabilities who are enrolled in a DoDEA school.

(ii) A child with a disability may be placed at DoD expense in a non-DoD school or facility only if required by the IEP.

(iii) DoDEA school officials shall initiate and conduct a meeting to develop an IEP for the child before placement. A representative of the non-DoD school or facility should attend the meeting. If the representative cannot attend, the DoDEA school officials shall communicate in other ways to facilitate participation including individual or conference telephone calls. A valid IEP must document the necessity of the placement in a non-DoD school or facility. The IEP must:

(A) Be signed by an authorized DoDEA official before it becomes valid.

(B) Include a determination that the DoDEA school system does not currently have and cannot reasonably create an educational program appropriate to meet the needs of the child with a disability.

(C) Include a determination that the non-DoD school or facility and its educational program and related services conform to the requirements of this part.

(iv) The DoD shall not be required to reimburse the costs of special education and related services if DoDEA made FAPE available in accordance with the requirements of the IDEA and a parent unilaterally places the child in a non-DoD school without the approval of DoDEA.

(A) Reimbursement may be ordered by a hearing officer if he or she determines that DoDEA had not made FAPE available in a timely manner prior to enrollment in the non-DoDEA school and that the private placement is appropriate.

(B) Reimbursement may be reduced or denied:
