
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 310 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### Subpart C - Exemption Rules
####### ยง 310.28 Office of the Inspector General (OIG) exemptions.
######## Exemption.

(i)Any portion of this system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G) through (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), and (g), as applicable. In addition, any portion of this system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) or (k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I), as applicable. Exempted records from other systems of records may in-turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those `other' systems of records are entered into this system, the DoD OIG claims the same exemptions for the records from those `other' systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part. Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
