
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 310 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
###### Subpart C - Exemption Rules
####### ยง 310.28 Office of the Inspector General (OIG) exemptions.
######## Reasons.,e.g.,

(iii)(A) From subsections (c)(3) and (c)(4) because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosure of investigations concerning him or her would specifically reveal an investigative interest in the individual. Revealing this information would reasonably be expected to compromise open or closed administrative or criminal investigation efforts to a known or suspected offender by notifying the record subject that he or she is under investigation. This information could also prompt the record subject to take measures to impede the investigation,destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid or impede the investigation.

(B) From subsection (d), because these provisions concern individual access to and amendment of certain records contained in this system. Granting access to information that is properly classified pursuant to executive order may cause damage to national security. Additionally, compliance with these provisions could alert the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation and/or the investigative interest of law enforcement agencies. It can also compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall law enforcement process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; could identify a confidential source or disclose information which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another's personal privacy; reveal a sensitive investigation or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses. Amendment of open or active investigations would interfere with ongoing law enforcement investigations and analysis activities, and impose an excessive administrative burden by requiring investigations, analyses, and reports to be continuously reinvestigated and revised.

(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to determine what information is relevant and necessary at an early stage in a given investigation, and because DoD OIG and other agencies may not always know what information about a known or suspected offender may be relevant to law enforcement for the purpose of conducting an operational response. The nature of the criminal and/or administrative law enforcement investigative functions creates unique problems in prescribing a specific parameter and a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, due to the DoD OIG's close liaison and working relationships with other Federal, State, local and foreign country criminal and administrative law enforcement agencies, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate criminal and administrative law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity which may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.

(D) From subsection (e)(2) because it is not always in the best interest of law enforcement to collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from an investigative subject. Requiring the collection of information to the greatest extent practicable directly from an investigative subject would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.

(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.

(F) From subsections (e)(4)(G) through (I) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).

(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of criminal law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.

(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to criminal law enforcement investigations by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and existence of sensitive information and/or confidential sources.

(I) To the extent that exemptions have been established from other provisions of the Privacy Act, the civil remedies provisions of subsection (g) are inapplicable. The nature of criminal law enforcement investigations and the utilization of authorized exemptions should not increase the Department's exposure to civil litigation under the Privacy Act.
