
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter O - Privacy Program
##### PART 339 - DOD GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS
###### ยง 339.5 Designation procedures.

(a) The proposing component will prepare a designation request for guidance documents. Designation requests must include the following information:

(1) A summary of the guidance document; and

(2) The component's recommended designation of "not significant," "significant," or "economically significant," as well as a justification for that designation.

(b) The appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer will seek a significance determination from OIRA for guidance documents in the same manner as for rulemakings. OIRA review will occur prior to the publishing of guidance documents, and with sufficient time to allow OIRA to review the designation request and the guidance document to determine if it meets the definition of "significant" or "economically significant" under Executive Order 13891.

(c) Prior to being published, guidance documents determined to be "significant" or "economically significant" are subject to formal review and interagency coordination by OIRA. The OIRA review, to include interagency coordination, is to be consistent with Executive Order 12866.

(d) Significant guidance documents (see ยง 339.7 of this part) must be reviewed and approved by the Department's Regulatory Policy Officer before OIRA formally reviews them.

(e) Once the OMB/OIRA has cleared a guidance document for publication, the appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer will coordinate the guidance document with the Defense Office of Prepublication and Security Review (DOPSR). The FRLO will notify the component of DOPSR's approval and that the guidance document can be approved forpublication or signed for placement on the central website.
