
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Parent revocation of consent for continued special education and related services.

(18)(i) Parents may unilaterally withdraw their children from further receipt of all special education and related services by revoking their consent for the continued provision of special education and related services to their children.

(ii) Parental revocation of consent must be in writing.

(iii) Upon receiving a written revocation of consent, the DoDEA school must cease the provision of special education and related services and must provide the parents prior written notice before ceasing the provision of services. The notice shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(19) of this section and shall advise the parents:

(A) Of any changes in educational placement and services that will result from the revocation of consent.

(B) That the school will terminate special education and related services to the child on a specified date, which shall be within a reasonable time following the delivery of the written notice.

(C) That DoDEA will not be considered to be in violation of the requirement to make FAPE available to the child because of the failure to provide the child with further special education and related services.

(D) That the DoDEA school will not be deemed to have knowledge that the child is a child with a disability and the child may be disciplined as a general education student and will not be entitled to the IDEA discipline protections.

(E) That the parents maintain the right to subsequently request an initial evaluation to determine if the child is a child with a disability who needs special education and related services and that their child will not receive special education and related services until eligibility has been determined.

(F) That the DoDEA school will not challenge, through mediation or a due process hearing, the revocation of consent to the provision of special education or related services.

(G) That while the school is not required to convene a CSC meeting or to develop an IEP for further provision of special education and related services, it is willing to convene a CSC meeting upon request of the parent prior to the date that service delivery ceases.

(iv) Revocation of consent for a particular service:

(A) Upon receiving a revocation of consent for a particular special education or related service, the DoDEA school must provide the parent prior written notice in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(19) of this section.

(B) If parents disagree with the provision of a particular special education or related service and the school members of the CSC and the parents agree that the child would be provided a FAPE if the child did not receive that service, the child's IEP may be modified to remove the service.

(C) If the parent and the school members of the CSC disagree as to whether the child would be provided a FAPE if the child did not receive a particular service, the parent may use the mediation or due process procedures under this part to obtain a determination as to whether the service with which the parent disagrees is or is not appropriate to his or her child and whether it is necessary to FAPE, but the school may not cease the provision of a particular service.
