
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 507 - MANUFACTURE, SALE, WEAR, AND QUALITY CONTROL OF HERALDIC ITEMS
###### Subpart C - Heraldic Quality Control Program
####### ยง 507.13 Controlled heraldic items.

(a) Controlled heraldic items will be manufactured in accordance with Government specifications, using Government loaned hubs, dies, or cartoons, by TIOH-certified manufacturers.

(b) The heraldic items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (13) of this section are controlled and authorized for manufacture and commercial sale under the Heraldic Quality Control Program when specifically authorized by TIOH.

(1) All authorized appurtenances and devices for decorations, medals, and ribbons such as oak leaf clusters, service stars, arrowheads, "V" device, and clasps.

(2) Combat, special skill, and qualification badges and bars.

(3) Identification badges.

(4) All approved Shoulder Sleeve Insignia.

(5) All approved Distinctive Unit Insignia.

(6) All approved Regimental Distinctive Insignia.

(7) All approved Combat Service Identification Badges.

(8) Fourrag&#xE8;res and lanyards.

(9) Lapel buttons.

(10) Decorations, service medals, and ribbons, except for the Medal of Honor.

(11) Replicas of decorations and service medals for grave markers. Replicas are to be at least twice the size prescribed for decorations and service medals.

(12) Service ribbons and unit awards.

(13) Rosettes, except for the Medal of Honor.

(c) Deviations from the prescribed specifications for the items listed in paragraph (b) of this section are not permitted without prior approval, in writing, by TIOH.

(d) Hubs, dies, and cartoons are not provided to manufacturers for the following items. However, manufacturing will be in accordance with the Government-furnished drawing.

(1) Shoulder Loop Insignia, Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC), U.S. Army.

(2) Institutional SSI, ROTC, U.S. Army.

(3) Background trimming/flashes, U.S. Army.

(4) Hand-embroidered bullion insignia.
