
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 507 - MANUFACTURE, SALE, WEAR, AND QUALITY CONTROL OF HERALDIC ITEMS
###### Subpart C - Heraldic Quality Control Program
####### ยง 507.16 Processing complaints of alleged breach of policies.
######## Notification to the manufacturer by examiner.

(g)Within a 7-day period following the receipt by the examiner of the allegations and other pertinent material, the examiner will transmit a registered letter of notification to the manufacturer informing him or her of the-

(1) Specific allegations.

(2) Directive of the Director requiring the holding of a public hearing on the allegations.

(3) Examiner's decision to hold the public hearing at a specific time, date, and place that will be not earlier than 30 days from the date of the letter of notification.

(4) Ultimate authority of the Director to suspend or revoke the certificate of authority if the record developed at the hearing so warrants.

(5) Right to-

(i) A full and fair public hearing.

(ii) Be represented by counsel during the hearing at no cost to the Government.

(iii) Request a change in the date, time, or place of the hearing, for purposes of having reasonable time in which to prepare the case.

(iv) Submit evidence and present witnesses in his or her own behalf.

(v) Obtain at no cost a verbatim transcript of the proceedings, upon written request filed before the commencement of the hearing.
