
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart C - Reporting Legal Proceedings to HQDA
####### ยง 516.15 General.
######## Reports to HQDA.

(c)Reports required by this regulation will be made telephonically or mailed to the responsible organization at DA. Appendix B to this part contains mailing addresses for these offices. Except in the situations described below, reports required by this chapter will be made to Litigation Division:

(1) Actual or potential litigation (or administrative infringement claims) involving patents, copyrights, or trademarks will be made to Intellectual Property Law Division.

(2) Reports of pending or prospective litigation involving taxation will be made to Contract Law Division.

(3) Communications, transportation, and utility services reports will be made to Regulatory Law Office.

(4) Reports involving environmental and natural resource litigation and administrative proceedings will be made to Environmental Law Division.

(5) Potential civil recovery reports in cases of procurement fraud and corruption will be made to Procurement Fraud Division.

(6) Reports involving the felony prosecution program and magistrate court prosecutions will be made to Criminal Law Division, OTJAG.

(7) Cases before the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals and the General Services Board of Contract Appeals will be made to Contract Appeals Division.
