
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart C - Reporting Legal Proceedings to HQDA
####### ยง 516.22 Miscellaneous reporting requirements.
######## Communications, transportation, and utility services administrative proceedings.

(d)Any contracting officer or other Army official responsible for the acquisition of communications, transportation, utilities (gas, electric, water and sewer), or military mail services, who becomes aware of any action or proceeding of interest to the Army, will promptly refer the matter to the SJA or legal adviser, who will take the actions prescribed in ยง 516.17 of this part. Examples of actions requiring referral follow: new or amended rates, regulations, or conditions of service; applications for authority to discontinue or initiate service; changes in electromagnetic patterns causing adverse communications interference; or, zoning proposals affecting historic or aesthetic preservation. In addition, the SJA or legal adviser will transmit the following to Regulatory Law Office:

(1) The names and addresses of any parties intervening and the substance of their positions.

(2) Names of government users affected by any change.

(3) Copy of any proposed rates, rules, or regulations.

(4) A recommendation whether the Army should intervene in the action or proceeding. If intervention is recommended, provide a memorandum to support the recommendation.
