
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart D - Individual Liability
####### ยง 516.30 Procedures for obtaining certification and DOJ representation.
######## SJA or legal adviser procedures.

(a)When an SJA or legal adviser learns of a criminal charge or of a lawsuit alleging individual liability against DA personnel as a result of performance of official duties, he will take the following actions:

(1) Immediately notify Litigation Division and the appropriate U.S. Attorney and FAX or express deliver copies of process and pleadings to each office. Where time for response is limited, request that the U.S. Attorney either petition the court for an extension of time, or provide temporary counsel and representation pending formal approval.

(2) Investigate whether the employee was acting within the scope of his office or employment. Obtain, if possible, statements from the defendant, supervisors, and witnesses.

(3) Advise the individual defendant of the rights and conditions set out in 28 CFR 50.15, which include the following:

(i) His right to request representation by a DOJ attorney and, in appropriate cases, certification that he was acting within the scope of employment. (See 28 U.S.C. 2679; 28 CFR 50.15).

(ii) The right to request private counsel at government expense, subject to the availability of funds. (See 28 CFR 50.16).

(iii) That the United States is not obligated to pay or indemnify defendant for any judgment rendered against him in his individual capacity.

(4) If the defendant desires certification or DOJ representation, have him sign a request. (See figure D-1, appendix G, of this part). Obtain a signed scope of employment statement from the defendant's supervisor. (Figure D-2, appendix G, of this part).

(5) Prepare a report with, at a minimum, the following information: facts surrounding the incident for which defendant is being sued and those relating to scope of employment; the SJA's or legal adviser's conclusions concerning scope of employment; and, a recommendation whether certification by the Attorney General or representation by a DOJ attorney should be granted.

(6) In cases involving National Guard personnel, address also the following: whether defendant was acting in a state (Title 32 U.S.C.) or Federal (Title 10 U.S.C.) capacity during relevant periods (include orders); if defendant was acting under state authority, is it nevertheless in the interest of the United States to represent the individual; any impact on policies or practices of DA, the National Guard Bureau, or DOD; whether the relief requested can be granted only by a Federal officer or agency; and, whether Federal law or regulation required actions by state officials.

(7) Send the report, request for representation, and scope of employment statements to Chief, Litigation Division.
