
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart E - Legal Proceedings Initiated by the United States Medical Care and Property Claims
####### ยง 516.33 General.
######## Authorities.

(a)(1) Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651). The act provides for the recovery of medical care expenses incurred because of a tortfeasor's actions.

(2) Federal Claims Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3711). The act provides for the collection of claims for money or property arising from the activities of Federal agencies.

(3) Third-party Collection Program (10 U.S.C. 1095). The statute provides for collection of reasonable costs of health-care services, provided in facilities of the uniformed services to covered beneficiaries, from private insurers or third-party payers. In accordance with DOD Instruction 6010.15, "Third Party Collection (TPC) Program," 7 March 1991, the authority to settle or waive a DOD claim under the act is delegated to TJAG or to his designee.

(4) Executive Order No. 12778, (56 FR 55195; 3 CFR, 1991 Comp. p. 359), Civil Justice Reform. This order establishes several requirements on Federal agencies involved in litigation or contemplating filing an action on behalf of the United States.

(5) AR 27-20, Claims. Chapter l4 (Affirmative Claims) contains comprehensive guidance for Recovery Judge Advocates (RJAs) in the administrative determination, assertion, collection, settlement, and waiver of claims in favor of the U.S. for property damage and for medical care claims.
