
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart G - Release of Information and Appearance of Witnesses Scope
####### Release of Records in Connection With Litigation
######## ยง 516.44 Determination of release authorization.
######### Releasability factors.

(b)In deciding whether to authorize release of official information, the deciding official should consider the following:

(1) Has the requester complied with DA policy governing the release of official documents in ยง 516.41(d) of this part.

(2) Is the request unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable court rules?

(3) Is the disclosure appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the matter in which the request arose?

(4) Would the disclosure violate a statute, executive order, regulation, or directive?

(5) Is the disclosure appropriate under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege?

(6) Would the disclosure reveal information properly classified pursuant to the DOD Information Security Program under AR 380-5, unclassified technical data withheld from public release pursuant to 32 CFR ยง 250, or other matters exempt from unrestricted disclosure?

(7) Would disclosure interfere with ongoing enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, reveal the identity of an intelligence source or confidential informant, disclose trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information, or, otherwise be inappropriate under the circumstances?

(8) Would the disclosure violate any person's expectation of confidentiality or privacy?
