
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart G - Release of Information and Appearance of Witnesses Scope
####### ยง 516.41 Policy.
######## Motions to stay or quash subpoenas.

(f)A subpoena should never be ignored, and an SJA or legal adviser should seek assistance from Litigation Division or the U.S. Attorney's office whenever necessary. If a response to a subpoena or order is required before a release determination can be made or before Litigation Division or the U.S. Attorney can be contacted, the SJA or legal adviser will do the following:

(1) Furnish the court or tribunal a copy of this regulation (32 CFR part 516, subpart G) and applicable case law (See United States ex. rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462 (1951));

(2) Inform the court or tribunal that the requesting individual has not complied with this Chapter, as set out in 32 CFR 97 & 516, or that the subpoena or order is being reviewed;

(3) Seek to stay the subpoena or order pending the requestor's compliance with this chapter or final determination by Litigation Division; and,

(4) If the court or other tribunal declines to quash or stay the subpoena or order, inform Litigation Division immediately so a decision can be made whether to challenge the subpoena or order. If Litigation Division decides not to challenge the subpoena or order, the affected personnel will comply with the subpoena or order. If Litigation Division decides to challenge the subpoena or order, it will direct the affected personnel to respectfully decline to comply with the subpoena or order. (See United States ex. rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462 (1951)).
