
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart G - Release of Information and Appearance of Witnesses Scope
####### ยง 516.42 Reference to HQDA.
######## General.

(a)If the SJA or legal adviser is unable to resolve the matter, it will be referred for approval or action by Litigation Division under this chapter, by the most expeditious means, to General Litigation Branch, Litigation Division, with the following exceptions:

(1) Those involving a case assigned to another branch of Litigation Division will be submitted to that branch (appendix B to this part).

(2) Those involving affirmative litigation (for example, medical care recovery or Army property damage or loss cases) under subpart E will be submitted to Tort Branch.

(3) Those involving patents, copyrights, privately developed technical information, or trademarks will be submitted to Intellectual Property Law Division.

(4) Those involving taxation will be submitted to Contract Law Division.

(5) Those involving communication, transportation, or utility service proceedings will be submitted to the Regulatory Law Office.

(6) Those involving environmental matters will be submitted to the Environmental Law Division.

(7) Those involving contract appeals cases before the ASBCA will be submitted to the Contract Appeals Division.

(8) Those involving procurement fraud, including Qui Tam cases, will be submitted to the Procurement Fraud Division.
