
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart H - Remedies in Procurement Fraud and Corruption
####### ยง 516.59 Duties and procedures.

(a) TJAG has overall responsibility for the coordination of remedies in procurement fraud and corruption within the Army. This responsibility has been delegated to PFD. Functions of PFD will include the following:

(1) Serving as the single centralized organization in the Army to monitor the status of, and ensure the coordination of, criminal, civil, contractual, and administrative remedies for each significant case of fraud or corruption.

(2) Receiving reports of procurement fraud and corruption from any source including, but not limited to the following: DOD criminal investigative organizations; audit agencies; contracting officers; inspectors general of the executive branch; correspondence from the public; and, commanders. This provision does not repeal any other reporting requirement but establishes PFD as a recipient of PFI information at the earliest possible time.

(3) Establishing a monitoring system within OTJAG for all cases of fraud and corruption that relate to Army procurement.

(4) Discussing regularly with the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command (USACIDC) or the assigned DOD criminal investigative organization the current status of significant fraud or corruption cases and their coordination with prosecutive authorities.

(5) Ensuring that all criminal, civil, contractual, and administrative remedies are considered in each significant fraud or corruption case and that timely and applicable remedies are undertaken by commanders, contracting officers, and suspension and debarment authorities. For example, consideration of suspension or debarment of a contractor or individual should normally be initiated within 30 days of indictment or conviction.

(6) Coordinating, as appropriate, with other DOD components affected by a significant fraud or corruption case being monitored by the Army.

(7) Developing, with the responsible DOD investigative organization, Procurement Fraud Coordinators and Advisers, and other involved agencies, a specific comprehensive remedies plan for each significant fraud or corruption case.
