
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart G - Release of Information and Appearance of Witnesses Scope
####### ยง 516.42 Reference to HQDA.
######## Information to be submitted.

(b)When referring matters pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the following data should be provided:

(1) Parties (named or prospective) to the proceeding, their attorneys, and case number, where appropriate.

(2) Party making the request (if a subpoena, indicate moving party) and his attorney.

(3) Name of tribunal in which the proceeding is pending.

(4) Nature of the proceeding.

(5) Date of receipt of request or date and place of service of subpoena.

(6) Name, grade, position, and organization of person receiving request or served with subpoena.

(7) Date, time, and place designated in request or subpoena for production of information or appearance of witness.

(8) Nature of information sought or document requested, and place where document is maintained.

(9) A copy of each document requested. Contact the appropriate office at HQDA if this would be burdensome and unnecessary to a decision whether to release, redact, or withhold a particular document.

(10) Name of requested witness, expected testimony, requested appearance time and date, and whether witness is reasonably available.

(11) Analysis of the problem with recommendations.
