
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart H - Remedies in Procurement Fraud and Corruption
####### ยง 516.59 Duties and procedures.
######## Coordinating remedies with DOJ.

(8)In the case of ongoing criminal investigations, coordinate remedies through, or with the prior knowledge of, the DOD criminal investigative organization responsible for the case.

(9) In significant fraud or corruption cases, identifying and documenting any known adverse impact on a DOD mission, and including the information in any remedies plan.

(10) Providing the appropriate DOD criminal investigative organization with information concerning final remedies as a result of an investigation by that organization.

(11) Receiving notifications from criminal investigative agencies concerning substituted, defective, and counterfeit hardware in which a serious hazard to health, safety or operational readiness is indicated; ensuring that appropriate safety, procurement and program officials are informed in accordance with enclosure 3 of DOD Directive 7050.5. PFD will specifically ensure that contract reviews (DD 350 reports) and adverse impact statements (See ยง 516.64(c)(2) are prepared, and that such information is used to determine if further inquiry is warranted to prevent reoccurrence and to detect other possible fraud. Impact statements will not be released to prosecutive agencies until reviewed by PFD. When appropriate, PFD will coordinate with other DOD agencies to establish a lead agency for victim impact statements in multi-DOD agency cases.

(b) The Commanding General, USACIDC, will take the following actions:

(1) Notify PFD of any investigations involving fraud or corruption related to procurement activities.

(2) Notify other DOD component criminal investigative organizations when investigations involving fraud or corruption affect that component. This includes evidence of fraud by a contractor, subcontractor, or employee of either, on current or past contracts with, or affecting, that component.

(3) Notify the Defense Investigative Service of any investigations that develop evidence which affects DOD cleared industrial facilities or personnel.

(4) Determine the effect on any ongoing investigations or prosecutions of any criminal, civil, contractual, or administrative actions being considered by a centralized organization and advise of any adverse impact.

(5) Promptly provide commanders, contracting officers, Procurement Fraud Advisers, and suspension and debarment authorities, when needed to allow consideration of applicable remedies, any court records, documents, or other evidence of fraud or corruption from ongoing or completed criminal investigations. In cases of indictment or conviction of a contractor or individual, the information will be provided in time for initiation, if appropriate, of suspension or debarment action within 30 days of the indictment or conviction.

(6) Provide prosecutive authorities and centralized organizations with timely information on the adverse impact on a DOD mission of fraud or corruption that relates to DOD procurement activities. This information will be obtained from individuals such as the head of the contracting agency, appropriate commanders, and staff agencies. Some examples of adverse impact on a DOD mission are endangerment of personnel or property, monetary loss, compromise of the procurement process, or reduction or loss of mission readiness.

(7) Discuss regularly with Procurement Fraud Advisers the status of significant investigations of fraud or corruption and their coordination with prosecutive authorities and provide documents and reports resulting from the investigations.

(c) Commanders of service schools conducting procurement or procurement-related training (such as The Judge Advocate General's School, the U.S. Military Police School, and the U.S. Army Logistics Management Center) will ensure the following:

(1) All procurement and procurement-related training includes a period of instruction on fraud and corruption in the procurement process. The length of the period of instruction will be appropriate to the duration and nature of the training.

(2) Training materials are developed to support that training.

(3) Training materials developed will be sent to MACOM PFI Coordinators.

(d) MACOM commanders and heads of contracting activities will ensure the following:

(1) Substantial indications of fraud or corruption relating to Army contracts or Army administered contracts are reported promptly to the supporting USACIDC element and the Procurement Fraud Division.

(2) Information provided includes reports by contracting officers under DFARS 209.406-3.
