
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart G - Release of Information and Appearance of Witnesses Scope
####### ยง 516.41 Policy.
######## Requests for Inspector General records or testimony.

(h)IG records, and information obtained through performance of IG duties, are official information under the exclusive control of the Secretary of the Army. (See AR 20-l, Chapter 3.) IG records frequently contain sensitive official information that may be classified or obtained under guarantees of confidentiality. When justification exists, DA attorneys will seek court protection from disclosure of IG records and information. No DA personnel will release IG records or disclose information obtained through performance of IG duties without the approval of The Secretary of the Army, The Inspector General, TIG Legal Advisor, or Chief, Litigation Division. When IG personnel receive a subpoena, court order, request for attendance at a judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding, or a request for an interview which the IG reasonably believes is related to actual or potential litigation concerning IG records or related information, they should immediately notify the Inspector General Legal Adviser or the Chief, Litigation Division. IG personnel will follow the guidance of this subpart concerning actions to be taken regarding disclosure and testimony.
