
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart H - Remedies in Procurement Fraud and Corruption
####### ยง 516.66 Administrative and contractual actions.

(a) The following remedial options should be considered in response to confirmed fraudulent activity:

(1) Contractual.

(i) Termination of contract for default.

(ii) Nonaward of contract based upon a finding of contractor nonresponsibility. (If this appears to be a valid option, a DFARS 209.406-3 (48 CFR 209.406-3) report must be prepared where contractor nonresponsibility is based on lack of integrity).

(iii) Rescission of contract.

(iv) Revocation of acceptance.

(v) Use of contract warranties.

(vi) Withholding of payments to contractor. In the case of withholding pursuant to DFARS 2032.173, the Chief, PFD, is the Army Remedy Coordinating Official.

(vii) Offset of payments due to contractor from other contracts.

(viii) Revocation of facility security clearances.

(ix) Increased level of quality assurance.

(x) Refusal to accept nonconforming goods.

(xi) Denial of claims submitted by contractors.

(xii) Removal of contract from automated solicitation or payment system.

(2) Administrative.

(i) Change in contracting forms and procedures.

(ii) Removal or reassignment of government personnel.

(iii) Review of contract administration and payment controls.

(iv) Revocation of warrant of contracting officer.

(v) Suspension of contractor.

(vi) Debarment of contractor.

(b) In cases which are pending review or action by DOJ, PFAs should coordinate with the DOJ attorney handling the case prior to initiating any contractual or administrative remedy. In the case of ongoing criminal investigations, this coordination will be accomplished through the appropriate DOD criminal investigation organization.
