
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart I - Cooperation With the Office of Special Counsel
####### ยง 516.72 Procedures.
######## "Accused" or "suspected" DA personnel and counsel for representation.

(b)(1) If the OSC identifies a DA civilian employee or a military member as an "accused" or "suspected" individual, or if the Labor Counselor concludes that an individual is a "suspect," the Labor Counselor will inform the individual. The Labor Counselor also will advise the individual of the availability of counsel for representation upon approval by DA General Counsel. (See Glossary, Counsel for Representation).

(2) If the "suspected" individual desires legal representation by DA, the individual must request counsel by submitting a written request through DAJA-LE to DA General Counsel. (See figure I-1, appendix G, to this part).

(3) During the investigation but prior to DA General Counsel approval of the request for counsel, an "accused" or "suspected" individual will be provided the assistance of counsel for consultation in the same manner as any other OSC requested witness. "Accused" or "suspected" individuals who do not request counsel for representation will be provided counsel for consultation in the same manner as any other OSC requested witness.

(4) If the DA General Counsel approves the request for counsel, the Chief, DAJA-LE, will appoint a DA attorney to represent the individual. This appointment may be made telephonically but will be confirmed in writing. The Chief, DAJA-LE, will make appropriate coordination with MACOM SJAs and command counsel to confirm availability of the attorney.

(5) An attorney appointed by DA may represent a civilian employee in any proceeding initiated by OSC before the MSPB. However, counsel provided by DA may not represent the employee in any proceeding initiated by DA, in any appeal from a final decision by the MSPB, or in any collateral proceeding before any forum other than the MSPB.

(6) OSC may not bring a disciplinary action before the MSPB against a military member. Accordingly, DA counsel will not be required to represent the military member in any MSPB disciplinary proceeding. However, counsel may represent the member during the OSC investigation with the understanding that the evidence obtained by OSC may be referred to the member's command for possible disciplinary action under the UCMJ or appropriate regulations. If DA initiates action against the military member for misconduct disclosed in the OSC investigation, the member will obtain counsel as provided under the UCMJ or relevant regulations.
