
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart I - Cooperation With the Office of Special Counsel
####### ยง 516.72 Procedures.
######## Witnesses and counsel for consultation.

(a)(1) DA military and civilian managers, supervisors, and employees who are requested by OSC for an interview will be made available in accordance with arrangements the Labor Counselor will establish. Requests for the testimony of IGs will be coordinated with the Inspector General Legal Office, SAIG-ZXL, DSN 227-9734 or Commercial (703) 697-9734.

(2) The Labor Counselor will ensure that witnesses are aware of their obligation to answer OSC questions, their potential to be considered "suspects" in OSC investigations, and their right to the assistance of counsel during interviews with OSC representatives. If the requested witness is not an "accused" or "suspected" individual and the witness asks for assistance of counsel, a DA attorney will be made available for the limited purpose of consultation regarding the witness' rights and obligations. An attorney-client relationship will not be established. (See appendix F to this part).

(3) The Labor Counselor will arrange for individual counsel for consultation from local assets. If local assets are not sufficient, assistance may be requested from other DOD activities in the area or from HQDA, DAJA-LE. DA attorneys tasked to consult with one or more witnesses individually will not be tasked to represent the DA activity concerned.

(4) The Labor Counselor, as the legal representative of the activity, is precluded from assisting or representing individual witnesses during OSC interviews.
