
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart I - Cooperation With the Office of Special Counsel
####### ยง 516.71 Duties.
######## Chief, Labor and Employment Law Office.

(b)The Chief, Labor and Employment Law Office, OTJAG (DAJA-LE) is responsible for the following:

(1) Act for TJAG as the Senior Management Official in cooperating with OSC. As Senior Management Official, the Chief, DAJA-LE, through TJAG, will be responsible to the DA General Counsel for administration of the policies and procedures contained in this chapter.

(2) Promptly inform the DA General Counsel of any OSC investigation and consult with the DA General Counsel on any legal or policy issue arising from an OSC investigation.

(3) Serve as the HQDA point of contact in providing assistance to OSC.

(4) Act as DA attorney-of-record in administrative matters initiated by OSC before the MSPB which arise from an OSC investigation. As DA attorney-of-record, the Chief, DAJA-LE, will file necessary pleadings and make necessary appearances before the MSPB to represent DA interests.

(5) Monitor ongoing OSC investigations within DA.

(6) Ensure that appropriate DA personnel are fully apprised of their rights, duties and the nature and basis for an OSC investigation.

(7) Review and prepare recommendations to the General Counsel concerning any OSC recommended corrective action referred to DA. Such review and recommendations will address whether disciplinary action should be taken against DA civilian employees or military members, and whether the information warrants referral to appropriate authorities for corrective and disciplinary action.

(8) Seek OSC approval of DA proposed disciplinary action against an employee for an alleged prohibited personnel practice or other misconduct which is the subject of or related to any OSC investigation.

(9) Review and prepare recommendations for DA General Counsel concerning requests for counsel, to include identifying available DA attorneys to act as individual representatives. Upon approval of DA General Counsel, appoint DA civilian and military attorneys, to include attorneys from the U.S. Army Materiel Command and the Corps of Engineers, to represent individual military members or employees.

(10) Determine, to the extent practicable, whether an investigation is being or has been conducted which duplicates, in whole or in part, a proposed or incomplete OSC investigation, and convey that information to the OSC whenever it might avoid redundant investigative efforts.

(11) Provide guidance and assistance to activity Labor Counselors in fulfilling their duties as Liaison Officers.
