
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Subpart J - Soldiers Summoned To Serve on State and Local Juries
####### ยง 516.77 Procedures for exemption.

(a) Active duty soldiers served with a summons to serve on a state or local jury will promptly advise their commander and provide copies of pertinent documents.

(b) Unit commanders will evaluate the summons considering both the individual soldier's duties and the unit mission. Coordination with the servicing judge advocate or legal adviser and with the appropriate state or local official may be necessary to determine any impact on the soldier's duties or on unit readiness.

(1) If the soldier is not exempt under ยง 516.75 (b) or (c), the commander will process the soldier for permissive TDY in accordance with AR 630-5, Leaves and Passes.

(2) If the soldier is exempt under ยง 516.75 (b) or (c), the commander will forward the summons and any related documentation, with recommendations, through the chain of command to the commander with exemption determination authority over the soldier concerned.

(c) The commander with exemption determination authority over the soldier concerned will determine whether the soldier is exempt. His determination is final.

(d) The exemption determination authority will notify responsible state or local officials whenever a soldier summoned for jury duty is exempt. The notification will cite 10 U.S.C. 982 as authority.
