
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Appendix G to Part 516 - Figures

This appendix contains figures cited or quoted throughout the text of this part.

In the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas Corpus Christi Division, No. C-90-100

The Complaint is barred by laches.

Figure C-3. Sample Answer to Judicial Complaint, with attached Certificate of Service. This is intended to be used as a guide in preparing a draft Answer as part of a Litigation Report.

For its answer to the complaint, defendant admits, denies and alleges as follows:

1. Admits.

2. Denies.

3. Denies.

4. The allegations contained in paragraph 4 are conclusions of law to which no response is required; to the extent they may be deemed allegations of fact, they are denied.

5. Denies the allegations contained in the first sentence of paragraph 5; admits the allegations contained in the second sentence of paragraph 5; denies the remainder of the allegations in paragraph 5.

6. Denies the allegations in paragraph 6 for lack of knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to their truth.

7. Denies each allegation in the complaint not specifically admitted or otherwise qualified.

The remainder of plaintiff's Complaint contains his prayer for relief, to which no answer is required. Insofar as an answer is required, denies that plaintiff is entitled to any relief whatsoever.

Defendant respectfully prays that the Court dismiss plaintiff's Complaint and award to defendant costs and such further relief as the Court deems proper.

Respectfully submitted,

I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of Defendant's Answer has been placed in the mail, postage prepaid, this ____ day of __________, 1991, addressed to plaintiff's counsel as follows: Mr. Eugene Henderson, 777 Fourth Street, Corpus Christi, TX 78888.

I am Private Paul Jones, currently assigned to Company B, 4th Battalion, 325th Parachute Infantry Regiment, Fort Bragg, North Carolina. I have personal knowledge of the following matters.

On the evening of 3 June 1970, I was present at the company party at Lake Popolopen when the accident occurred. I saw a bright, full moon that evening.

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. (28 U.S.C. ยง 1746).

Executed on: __________
