
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Appendix F to Part 516 - Glossary
####### i.e.

Legal action or process involving civil proceedings,, noncriminal.

a. A suit in which the United States or one of its agencies or instrumentalities has been, or probably will be, named as a party.

b. A suit against DA personnel and arises out of the individual's performance of official duties.

c. A suit concerning an Army contract, subcontract, or purchase order under the terms of which the United States may be required to reimburse the contractor for recoveries, fees, or costs of the litigation.

d. A suit involving administrative proceedings before Federal, state, municipal, or foreign tribunals or regulatory bodies that may have a financial impact upon the Army.

e. A suit affecting Army operations or which might require, limit, or interfere with official action.

f. A suit in which the United States has a financial interest in the plaintiff's recovery.

g. Foreign litigation in which the United States is bound by treaty or agreement to ensure attendance by military personnel or civilian employees.

Includes hospitalization, outpatient treatment, dental care, nursing service, drugs, and other adjuncts such as prostheses and medical appliances furnished by or at the expense of the United States.

An offense for which the maximum penalty does not exceed imprisonment for 1 year. Misdemeanors include those offenses categorized as petty offenses (18 USC ยง 3559).

All information of any kind, however stored, that is in the custody and control of the Department of Defense, relates to information in the custody and control of the Department, or was acquired by DoD personnel as part of their official duties or because of their official status within the Department while such personnel were employed by or on behalf of the Department or on active duty with the United States Armed Forces.

Those forces whose primary missions are to participate in combat and the integral supporting elements thereof. Within DA, the operating forces consist of tactical units organized to conform to tables of organization and equipment (TOE).

These include-

a. Appointment.

b. Promotion.
