
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 516 - LITIGATION
###### Appendix D to Part 516 - Department of Defense Directive 7050.5, Coordination of Remedies for Fraud and Corruption Related to Procurement Activities
####### et seq.

b. Anti-Kickback Act (41 USC 51).

c. Voiding Contracts (18 USC 218).

d. Truth in Negotiations Act (10 USC 2306(f)).

e. Fraudulent Claims-Contract Disputes Act (41 USC 604)

a. Breach of contract.

b. Breach of warranty.

c. Money paid under mistake of fact.

d. Unjust enrichment.

e. Fraud and/or Deceit.

f. Conversion.

g. Recision and/or Cancellation.

h. Reformation.

i. Enforcement of performance bond/guarantee agreement.

a. Termination of contract for default.

b. Termination of contract for convenience of Government.

c. Termination for default and exemplary damages under the gratuities clause.

d. Recision of contract.

e. Contract warranties.

f. Withholding of payments to contractor.

g. Offset of payments due to contractor from other contracts.

h. Price reduction.

i. Correction of defects (or cost of correction).

j. Refusal to accept nonconforming goods.

k. Revocation of acceptance.

l. Denial of claims submitted by contractors.

m. Disallowance of contract costs.

n. Removal of the contractor from automated solicitation or payment system.

a. Change in contracting forms and procedures.

b. Removal or reassignment of Government personnel.

c. Review of contract administration and payment controls.

d. Revocation of warrant contracting officer.

e. Suspension of contractor and contractor employees.

f. Debarment of contractor and contractor employees.

g. Revocation of facility security clearances.

h. Nonaward of contract based upon a finding of contractor nonresponsibility.

i. Voluntary refunds.

A. The centralized organization, in all cases involving allegations of product substitution in which a SERIOUS HAZARD to health, safety, or operational readiness is indicated shall:

1. Review the notice of the case immediately after receiving it from the Defense criminal investigative organization. Review the notice to determine any potential safety or readiness issues indicated by the suspected fraud.

2. Notify all appropriate safety, procurement, and program officials of the existence of the case.

3. Obtain a complete assessment from safety, procurement, and program officials of the adverse impact of the fraud on DoD programs and operations.

4. Ensure that the DoD Component provides the Defense criminal investigative organization with full testing support to completely identify the defective nature of the substituted products. Costs associated with the testing shall be assumed by the appropriate procurement program.

5. Prepare a comprehensive impact statement describing the adverse impact of the fraud on DoD programs for use in any criminal, civil, or contractual action related to the case.

B. In all cases involving allegations of product substitution that affect more than one DoD Component, that centralized organizations of the affected DoD Components shall identify a lead Agency. The lead centralized organization shall ensure that information on the fraud is provided to the centralized organization of all other affected DoD Components. The lead centralized organization shall ensure compliance with the requirements of section A., above. The lead centralized organization shall then be responsible for preparing a comprehensive "Victim Impact Statement" as required by paragraph E.1.g. of this Directive.

C. In all cases involving allegations of product substitution, the Defense Criminal Investigative Organization shall:

1. Immediately notify the appropriate centralized organization of the beginning of the case.

2. Continue to provide to the centralized organization any information developed during the course of the investigation that indicates substituted products have been, or might be, provided to the Department of Defense.

3. Ensure that any request for testing of substituted products is provided to the centralized organization.
