
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 525 - ENTRY AUTHORIZATION REGULATION FOR KWAJALEIN MISSILE RANGE
###### ยง 525.2 Background and authority.
####### Background.

(a)(1) Certain areas, due to their strategic nature or for purposes of defense, have been subjected to restrictions regarding the free entry of persons, ships, and aircraft. Free entry into the areas listed and defined in this regulation, and military installations contiguous to or within the boundaries of defense site areas, is subject to control as provided for in the Executive Order 11021 of May 7, 1962 and Departments of Interior and Defense Agreement effective July 1, 1963, or other regulations. Such restrictions are imposed for defense purposes because of the unique strategic nature of the area and for the protection of the United States Government military bases, stations, facilities, and other installations, and the personnel, property, and equipment assigned to or located therein. Persons, ships, and aircraft are excluded from KMR unless and until they are granted permission to enter under applicable regulations.

(2) The control of entry into or movement within KMR by persons, ships, or aircraft will be exercised so as to protect fully the physical security of, and insure the full effectiveness of, bases, stations, facilities, other installations, and individuals within KMR. However, unnecessary interference with the free movement of persons, ships, and aircraft is to be avoided.

(3) This regulation will be administered to provide the prompt processing of all applications and to insure uniformity of interpretation and application insofar as changing conditions permit.

(4) In cases of doubt, the determination will be made in favor of the course of action which will best serve the interests of the United States and national defense as distinguished from the private interests of an individual or group.
