
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 525 - ENTRY AUTHORIZATION REGULATION FOR KWAJALEIN MISSILE RANGE
###### ยง 525.2 Background and authority.
####### Authority.

(b)(1) The Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands is a strategic area administered by the United States under the provisions of the Trusteeship Agreement for the Former Japanese Mandated Islands, approved by the United Nations April 2, 1947. Congress, by 48 U.S.C. Sec. 1681, gave responsibility for this area to the President. By Executive Order 11021, the President delegated this authority to the Secretary of Interior. By agreement between the Secretary of Interior and Secretary of Defense, the Navy became responsible for all entry control July 1, 1963. With approval of the Secretary of Defense and Director of the Office of Territories, the authority to control entry into KMR was transferred to the Army in July of 1964.

(2) The authority of the Department of the Army to control entry of persons, ships, and aircraft into Kwajalein Missile Range is exercised through the Commander, Ballistic Missile Defense Systems Command, who is the National Range Commander.

(3) Penalties are provided by law for:

(i) Violation of regulations imposed for the protection or security of military or naval aircraft, airports, air facilities, vessels, harbors, ports, piers, waterfront facilities, bases, forts, posts, laboratories, stations, vehicles, equipment, explosives, or other property or places subject to the jurisdiction of, administration of, or in the custody of the Department of Defense (sec. 21 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 797) and Department of Defense Directive 5200.8 of 29 July 1980.

(ii) Knowingly and willfully making a false or misleading statement or representation in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States (18 U.S.C. 1001).
