
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 525 - ENTRY AUTHORIZATION REGULATION FOR KWAJALEIN MISSILE RANGE
###### ยง 525.4 Entry authorization (policy).
####### joining

(i) Dependents of KMR-based permanent-party personnel for the purpose oftheir sponsors (already stationed at KMR) on either a permanent or temporary basis.

(ii) Citizens, nationals and permanent resident aliens of the Republic of the Marshall Islands except those who deplaned for the purpose of transiting Kwajalein Defense Site.

(iii) Citizens of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

(iv) U.S. citizen employees and officials of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

(3) All other personnel, except news media representatives, will submit request for entry authorization to the National Range Commander, BMDSCOM, ATTN: BMDSC-R (electrical address: CDRBMDSCOM HUNTSVILLE AL //BMDSC-RA//).

(4) All requests and notifications will include the following data (as applicable):

(i) Full name(s).

(ii) Citizenship.

(iii) Organization.

(iv) Purpose of entry.

(v) Point of contact at Kwajalein Missile Range.

(vi) Inclusive dates of stay.

(vii) Return address.

(viii) Proof of security clearance (if access to classified information is required).

(5) News media representatives require authority from the National Range Commander to visit Kwajalein Missile Range (news media representatives wishing to transit Kwajalein Island to visit any island not within the Kwajalein Missile Range must obtain entry authorization from the Republic of the Marshall Islands and present same to the air carrier at the point of departure to Kwajalein Island). Requests should be addressed to the National Range Commander, BMDSCOM, ATTN: BMDSC-S (electrical address: CDRBMDSCOM HUNTSVILLE AL//BMDSC-S//) and contain the following information:

(i) Name.

(ii) Date and place of birth.

(iii) Citizenship.

(iv) Organization(s) represented.

(v) Objective(s) of visit.

(vi) Desired and alternative arrival and departure dates.

(vii) Address(es) and telephone number(s) for additional information and/or reply.
