
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 525 - ENTRY AUTHORIZATION REGULATION FOR KWAJALEIN MISSILE RANGE
###### ยง 525.4 Entry authorization (policy).
####### Ship.

(b)(1) Ships or other marine vessels in the following categories, except those which have been denied entry or have had a prior entry authorization revoked, may enter the Kwajalein Missile Range territorial waters upon request to and approval of the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range:

(i) U.S. private ships which are:

(A) Under charter to the Military Sealift Command, or

(B) Employed exclusively in support of and in connection with a Department of Defense construction, maintenance, or repair contract.

(ii) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands/RMI ships which have been approved by the resident representative on Kwajalein.

(iii) Any ship in distress.

(iv) U.S. public ships which are providing a service to the Kwajalein Atoll in accordance with their agency responsibilities.

(2) All other ships or marine vessels must obtain an entry authorization from the National Range Commander before entering the Kwajalein Atoll territorial sea. The entry authorization application should reach the National Range Commander at least 14 days prior to the desired entry date and should include the following information:

(i) Name of ship.

(ii) Place of registry and registry number.

(iii) Name, nationality, and address of operator.

(iv) Name, nationality, and address of owner.

(v) Gross tonnage of ship.

(vi) Nationality and numbers of officers and crew (include crew list when practicable).

(vii) Number of passengers (include list when practicable).

(viii) Last port of call prior to entry into area for which clearance is requested.

(ix) Purpose of visit.

(x) Proposed date of entry and estimated duration of stay.

(xi) Whether ship is equipped with firearms or photographic equipment.

(xii) Whether crew or passengers have in their possession firearms or cameras.

(3) Entry authorizations may be granted for either single or multiple entries.

(4) Captains of ships and/or marine vessels planning to enter Kwajalein Missile Range shall not knowingly permit excluded persons to board their vessels.

(5) U.S. public ships which are authorized to enter defense areas by the controlling Defense Department agency may enter the Kwajalein Atoll territorial sea without the specific approval of either the National Range Commander or the Commander, KMR, provided that the Commander, KMR, is notified as far in advance of the impending entry as is consistent with the security requirements pertaining to such movement.
