
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 525 - ENTRY AUTHORIZATION REGULATION FOR KWAJALEIN MISSILE RANGE
###### ยง 525.4 Entry authorization (policy).
####### Aircraft.

(c)(1) Aircraft in the following categories, except those aircraft which have been denied entry or have had a prior entry authorization revoked, may enter Kwajalein Atoll airspace upon request to and approval of the Commander, KMR:

(i) U.S. private aircraft which are under charter to the Military Airlift Command.

(ii) Public aircraft of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands/RMI which have been approved by the resident representative on Kwajalein.

(iii) Private aircraft registered with and approved by the Commander, KMR, which are based on Kwajalein Island.

(iv) Any aircraft in distress.

(v) Private aircraft operated by a common carrier which is providing scheduled air service to or through the Kwajalein Atoll under a current license issued by the Department of the Army.

(vi) U.S. public aircraft which are providing a service to the Kwajalein Atoll in accordance with their agency responsibilities.

(2) All aircraft, except those categorized in paragraph 4-3.a., must obtain an entry authorization from the National Range Commander before entering Kwajalein Atoll airspace. The entry authorization application should reach the National Range Commander at least 14 days prior to the desired entry date and should include the following information:

(i) Type and serial number of aircraft.

(ii) Nationality and name of registered owner.

(iii) Name and rank of senior pilot.

(iv) Nationality and number of crew (include crew list when practicable).

(v) Number of passengers (include list when practicable).

(vi) Purpose of flight.

(vii) Plan of flight route, including the point of origin of flight and its designation and estimated date and times of arrival and departure of airspace covered by this procedure.

(viii) Radio call signs of aircraft and radio frequencies available.

(ix) Whether aircraft is equipped with firearms or photographic equipment.

(x) Whether crew or passengers have in their possession firearms or cameras.

(3) Entry authorizations may be granted for either single or multiple entries.

(4) Captains of aircraft planning to enter Kwajalein Missile Range airspace shall not knowingly permit excluded persons to board their aircraft.

(5) U.S. public aircraft which are authorized to enter defense areas by the controlling Defense Department agency may enter the Kwajalein Atoll airspace with the specific approval of either the National Range Commander or the Commander, KMR, provided that the Commander, KMR, is notified as far in advance of the impending entry as is consistent with the security requirement pertaining to such movements.
