
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter A - Aid of Civil Authorities and Public Relations
##### PART 525 - ENTRY AUTHORIZATION REGULATION FOR KWAJALEIN MISSILE RANGE
###### ยง 525.5 Entry authorization (procedure).
####### Processing.

(a)(1) Upon receipt of an application, the appropriate officer (either the National Range Commander, the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range or the designated representative) shall take the following actions:

(i) Determine that the entry of the applicant is, or is not, in accordance with the criteria set forth in chapter 3. After having made a determination, the reviewing authority shall either:

(A) Issue an entry authorization as requested, or with modifications as circumstances require; or

(B) Deny the request and advise the applicant of his/her right to appeal in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5-2.

(ii) If the reviewing authority feels that additional information is required before reaching a decision, the reviewing authority will request that information from the applicant and then proceed as in paragraph 5-1.a.(1).

(iii) If, after having obtained all pertinent information, the reviewing authority cannot reach a decision, he/she will forward the application to the next higher headquarters. A statement containing the following information shall accompany the application:

(A) A summary of the investigation conducted by the reviewing organization.

(B) The reason the application is being forwarded.

(C) Appropriate comments and/or recommendations.

(2) All applicants will be kept fully informed of actions/decisions pertaining to his/her application. Normally a response will be forwarded to the applicant within ten working days after receipt of an application. When the National Range Commander responds to an application, he/she will send a copy of that response to the Commander, KMR. When the Commander, Kwajalein Missile Range, responds to an application, and the National Range Commander has an interest in the visit, the Commander, KMR, will concurrently send a copy of that response to the National Range Commander.

(3) Entry authorizations shall state the purpose for which the entry is authorized and such other information and conditions as are pertinent to the particular authorization.
