
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 536 - CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES
###### Subpart A - The Army Claims System
####### ยง 536.2 Claims authorities.
######## Related remedies statutes.

(e)The Army frequently receives claims or inquiries that are not cognizable under the statutory and other authorities administered by the U.S. Army under this publication and DA Pam 27-162. Every effort should be made to refer the claim or inquiry to the proper authority following the guidance in ยง 536.34 or ยง 536.36. (See also the corresponding paragraphs 2-15 and 2-17, respectively, in DA Pam 27-162). Some authorities for related remedies are used more frequently than others. Where an authority for a related remedy is frequently used, it is listed below and is posted on the USARCS Web site (for the address see ยง 536.2(a)).

(1) Tucker Act, 28 U.S.C. 1346, provides exclusive jurisdiction in the Court of Federal Claims over causes of actions alleging property loss caused by a Fifth Amendment "taking."

(2) Maritime authority statutes, Public Vessels Act (PVA), 46 U.S.C. app. 781-790, Suits in Admiralty Act (SIAA), 46 U.S.C. app. 741-752, and the Rivers and Harbors Act, 33 U.S.C. 408 and 412.

(3) Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA), two excerpts: 5 U.S.C. 8116 and 8140, providing guidance on personal injury and death claims by civilian employees arising within the scope of their employment (see DA Pam 27-162, paragraph 2-15b) and information on certain claims by Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) cadets, respectively, (see DA Pam 27-162, paragraph 2-17d(2)).

(4) Longshore and Harbor Workers Compensation Act (LHWCA), 33 U.S.C. 901-950.

(5) Claims for consequential property damage by civilian employees may only be considered in the Court of Federal Claims pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1491.
