
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 536 - CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES
###### Subpart A - The Army Claims System
####### ยง 536.2 Claims authorities.
######## Tort claims.

(1)(i) The Military Claims Act (MCA), 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 2733 (see subpart C of this part). The "incident-to-service" provision, applicable to both military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense, is contained in the MCA.

(ii) The Gonzales Act, 10 U.S.C. 1089. This act permits individual suits against health care providers for certain torts (see ยง 536.80).

(iii) Certain suits arising out of legal malpractice, 10 U.S.C. 1054, discussed at ยง 536.81 and at DA Pam 27-162, paragraph 2-62f.

(iv) The Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA), 28 U.S.C. 1291, 1402, 2401-2402, 2411-2412, and 2671-2680 (see subpart D of this part). The Westfall Act, 28 U.S.C. 2679, an integral part of the FTCA, provides absolute immunity from individual suit for common law torts for employees of the United States acting within the scope of their employment.

(A) The legislative history of the FTCA.

(B) Regulations of the Attorney General implementing the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 CFR part 14.

(C) An appendix to 28 CFR part 14 sets forth certain delegations of settlement authority to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Postmaster General, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

(v) The Non-Scope Claims Act (NSCA), 10 U.S.C. 2737 (see subpart E of this part).

(vi) The National Guard Claims Act (NGCA), 32 U.S.C. 715 (see subpart F of this part).

(vii) Claims under International Agreements or the Foreign Claims Act.

(A) International Agreements Claims Act (IACA), 10 U.S.C. 2734a and 2734b.

(B) Foreign Claims Act (FCA), 10 U.S.C. 2734 (see subpart J of this part).

(viii) The Army Maritime Claims Settlement Act (AMCSA), 10 U.S.C. 4801, 4802 and 4806. Affirmative claims under the AMCSA are processed under 10 U.S.C. 4803 and 4804 (see ยง 537.16 of this chapter).

(ix) Admiralty Extension Act (AEA), 46 U.S.C. app. 740 (see subpart H of this part).

(x) Claims against nonappropriated fund (NAF) activities and the risk management program (RIMP) (see subpart K of this part), processed under Army Regulation (AR) 215-1 and AR 608-10.

(xi) Claims by the U.S. Postal Service for losses or shortages in postal accounts caused by unbonded Army personnel (39 U.S.C. 411 and Department of Defense (DOD) Manual 4525.6-M).
