
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 536 - CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES
###### Subpart A - The Army Claims System
####### ยง 536.8 Responsibilities and operations of command claims services.
######## Chiefs of command claims services.

(a)Chiefs of command claims services shall:

(1) Exercise claims settlement authority as specified in this part, including appellate authority where so delegated.

(2) Supervise the investigation, processing, and settlement of claims against, and in favor of the United States under the statutes and regulations listed in ยง 536.2, and pursuant to other appropriate statutes, regulations, and authorizations.

(3) Designate and grant claims settlement authority to ACOs. A grant of such authority will not be effective until coordinated with the Commander USARCS, and assigned an office code. However, the chief of a command claims service may redesignate a CPO that already has an assigned office code as an ACO without coordination with the Commander USARCS. The Commander USARCS will be informed of such a designation.

(4) Designate and grant claims approval authority to CPOs. Only CPOs staffed with a claims judge advocate (CJA) or claims attorney may be granted approval authority. A grant of such authority will not be effective until coordinated with the Commander USARCS, and assigned an office code.

(5) Train claims personnel and monitor their operations and ongoing claims administration. Conduct a training course annually.

(6) Implement pertinent claims policies.

(7) Prepare and publish command claims directives.

(8) Administer the command claims expenditure allowance, providing necessary data, estimates, and reports to USARCS on a regular basis.

(9) Perform the responsibilities of an ACO (see ยง 536.9), as applicable, ensure that SOFA claims are investigated properly and timely filed with the receiving State and adequately funded.

(10) Serve as the United States "sending State office," if so designated, when operating in an area covered by a SOFA.

(11) Supervise and provide technical assistance to subordinate ACOs within the command claims service's geographic area of responsibility.

(12) Appoint FCCs.
