
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 536 - CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES
###### Subpart A - The Army Claims System
####### § 536.9 Responsibilities and operations of area claims offices.
######## Heads of ACOs.

(a)Heads of ACOs, including COE offices (see § 536.3(e)(3)) shall:

(1) Ensure that claims and potential claims incidents in their area of responsibility are promptly investigated in accordance with this part.

(2) Ensure that each organization or activity (for example, U.S. Army Reserve (USAR) or Army National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS) unit, ROTC detachment, recruiting company or station, or DOD agency) within the area appoints a claims officer to investigate claims incidents not requiring investigation by a JA (see § 536.23) and ensure that this officer is adequately trained.

(3) Supervise the investigation, processing, and settlement of claims against, and in favor of, the United States under the statutes and regulations listed in § 536.2 and pursuant to other appropriate statutes, regulations, and authorizations.

(4) Act as a claims settlement authority on claims that fall within the appropriate monetary jurisdictions set forth in this part and forward claims exceeding such jurisdictions to the Commander USARCS, or to the chief of a command claims service, as appropriate, for action.

(5) Designate CPOs and request that the Commander USARCS, or the chief of a command claims service, as appropriate, grant claims approval authority to a CPO for claims that fall within the jurisdiction of that office.

(6) Supervise the operations of CPOs within their area.

(7) Implement claims policies and guidance furnished by the Commander USARCS.

(8) Ensure that there are adequate numbers of qualified and adequately trained CJAs or claims attorneys, RCJAs or attorneys, recovery claims clerks, claims examiners, claims adjudicators and claims clerks in all claims offices within their areas to act promptly on claims.

(9) Budget for and fund claims investigations and activities, such as: per diem and transportation of claims personnel, claimants and witnesses; independent medical examinations; appraisals and independent expert opinions; long distance telephone calls; recording and photographic equipment; use of express mail or couriers; and other necessary expenses.

(10) Within the United States and its territories, commonwealths and possessions, procure and disseminate, within their areas of jurisdiction, appropriate legal publications on state or territorial law and precedent relating to tort claims.

(11) Notify the Commander USARCS, of all claims and potentially compensable events (PCEs) as required by § 536.22(c); notify the chief of a command claims service of all claims and PCEs.

(12) Develop and maintain written plans for a disaster or civil disturbance. These plans may be internal SJA office plans or an annex to an installation or an agency disaster response plan.

(13) Implement the Army's Article 139 claims program. (See subpart I of this part).

(14) Notify USARCS of possible deployments and ensure adequate FCCs are appointed by USARCS and are trained.
