
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 536 - CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES
###### Subpart B - Investigation and Processing of Claims
####### § 536.45 Statutory exceptions.

This topic is more fully discussed in DA Pam 27-162, paragraph 2-39. The exclusions listed below are found at 28 U.S.C. 2680 and apply to subparts C, D, F, and H and §§ 536.107 through 536.113 (Claims arising in the United States) of subpart G, except as noted therein, and not to subparts E, J or §§ 536.107 through 536.113 (Claims arising overseas) of subpart G of this part. A claim is not payable if it:

(a) Is based upon an act or omission of an employee of the U.S. government, exercising due care, in the execution of a statute or regulation, whether or not such statute or regulation is valid. This exclusion does not apply to a noncombat activity claim.

(b) Is based upon the exercise or performance or the failure to exercise or perform a discretionary function or duty on the part of a federal agency or an employee of the government, whether or not the discretion is abused. This exclusion does not apply to a noncombat activity claim.

(c) Arises out of the loss, miscarriage, or negligent transmission of letters or postal matters. This exclusion is not applicable to registered or certified mail claims under subpart C of this part. See § 536.34(i).

(d) Arises in respect of the assessment or collection of any tax or customs duty, or the detention of any goods or merchandise by any customs or other law enforcement officer. See 28 U.S.C. 2680(c).

(e) Is cognizable under the SIAA (46 U.S.C. app. 741-752), the PVA (46 U.S.C. app. 781-790), or the AEA (46 U.S.C. app. 740). This exclusion does not apply to subparts C, F, H or J of this part.

(f) Arises out of an act or omission of any federal employee in administering the provisions of the Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. app. 1-44.

(g) Is for damage caused by the imposition or establishment of a quarantine by the United States.

(h) Arises out of assault, battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious prosecution, abuse of process, libel, slander, misrepresentation, deceit, or interference with contract rights, except for acts or omissions of investigation of law enforcement officers of the U.S. government with regard to assault, battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, abuse of process or malicious prosecution. This exclusion also does not apply to a health care provider as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1089 and § 536.80 of this part, under the conditions listed therein.

(i) Arises from the fiscal operations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury or from the regulation of the monetary system.

(j) Arises out of the combatant activities of U.S. military or naval forces, or the Coast Guard during time of war.

(k) Arises in a foreign country. This exclusion does not apply to subparts C, E, F, H, J or §§ 536.114 through 536.116 (Claims arising overseas) of subpart G of this part.

(l) Arises from the activities of the Tennessee Valley Authority, 28 U.S.C. 2680(l).

(m) Arises from the activities of the Panama Canal Commission, 28 U.S.C. 2680(m).

(n) Arises from the activities of a federal land bank, a federal intermediate credit bank, or a bank for cooperatives, 28 U.S.C. 2680(n).
