
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Procedures for provision of related services by the military departments to students with disabilities in a DoDDS,Evaluation procedures.

(c)-(1)(i) Upon request by a CSC, the responsible EDIS shall ensure that a qualified medical authority conducts or verifies a medical evaluation for use by the CSC in determining the medically related disability that results in a child's need for special education and related services, and shall oversee an EDIS evaluation used in determining a child's need for related services.

(ii) The medical or related services evaluation, including necessary consultation with other medical personnel, shall be supervised by a physician or other qualified healthcare provider.

(iii) The medical or related services evaluation shall be specific to the concerns addressed in the request from the CSC.

(iv) The EDIS shall provide to the CSC an evaluation report that responds to the questions posed in the original request for an evaluation. The written report shall include:

(A) Demographic information about the child, such as the child's name, date of birth, and grade level.

(B) Behavioral observation of the child during testing.

(C) Instruments and techniques used.

(D) Evaluation results.

(E) Descriptions of the child's strengths and limitations.

(F) Instructional implications of the findings.

(G) The impact of the child's medical condition(s), if applicable, on his or her educational performance.

(v) If the EDIS that supports the DoDDS school requires assistance to conduct or complete an evaluation, the EDIS shall contact the MTF designated by the Military Department with geographic responsibility for the area where the EDIS is located.

(vi) If EDIS determines that in order to respond to the CSC referral the scope of its assessment and evaluation must be expanded beyond the areas specified in the initial parental permission, EDIS must:

(A) Obtain parental permission for the additional activities.

(B) Complete its initial evaluation by the original due date.

(C) Notify the CSC of the additional evaluation activities.

(vii) When additional evaluation information is submitted by EDIS, the CSC shall review all data and determine the need for program changes and the reconsideration of eligibility.

(viii) An EDIS provider shall serve on the CSC when eligibility, placement, or requirements for related services that EDIS provides are to be determined.
