
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Administrative complaints.

(3)(i) A complaint filed with the responsible agency, relating to the provision of services under the IDEA and this part, other than due process complaints filed in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section, is known as an administrative complaint.

(ii) An individual or organization may file an administrative complaint alleging issues relating to services required to be delivered under the IDEA and this part with:

(A) The Office of the Inspector General of a Military Department when the issue involves services or programs for infants and toddlers with disabilities, or related services provided by the Military Departments to children with disabilities.

(B) The DoDEA Director, Office of Investigations and Internal Review (OI&IR) when the issue involves the services or programs for children ages 3 through 21, inclusive that are under the direction or control of the DoDEA school system.

(iii) An administrative complaint alleging issues relating to services required to be delivered under the IDEA or this part must include:

(A) A statement that the Military Service or the DoDEA school system has violated a requirement of the IDEA or this part.

(B) The facts on which the statement is based.

(C) The signature and contact information for the complainant.

(D) If alleging violations with respect to specific children:
