
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### 3

() The investigation shall produce a report consistent with those the investigating agency routinely provides, shall determine whether its findings support the complaint, and shall state whether the DoDEA school system or the Military Department is violating a requirement of the IDEA or this part.

(vi) The findings and conclusions of the report of investigation related to the administrative complaint shall be made available to the complainant and members of the public in accordance with the standard operating procedures of the investigating activity and 32 CFR parts 285 and 310.

(A) The investigating activity shall provide a copy of the report to the Director, DoDEA and the Secretary of a Military Department concerned or in accordance with the investigating activity's protocols.

(B) The report shall be provided, to the extent practicable, within 60 days of initiating the investigation, unless extended by the complainant and the DoDEA school system or the Military Department.

(vii) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned or the Director, DoDEA shall resolve complaints within their respective area of responsibility when the Military Service or the DoDEA school system is found to have failed to provide appropriate services consistent with the requirements of the IDEA or this part. Remediation may include corrective action appropriate to address the needs of the child such as compensatory services, or monetary reimbursement where otherwise authorized by law.

(viii) When a complaint received under this section is also the subject of a due process complaint regarding alleged violations of rights afforded under the IDEA and this part, or contains multiple issues of which one or more are part of that due process complaint, the investigation activity shall set aside any issues alleged in the due process complaint until a hearing is concluded in accordance with the IDEA and this part. Any issue that is not part of the due process hearing must be resolved using the procedures of this section.

(ix) If an issue raised in a complaint filed under this section has been previously decided in a due process hearing involving the same parties:

(A) The due process hearing decision is binding on that issue.

(B) The Director, DoDEA or the Secretary of the Military Department concerned shall so inform the complainant.
