
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### 2

() In the case of the school or EDIS initiating mediation, to the parent.

(C) Acknowledgment of the request for mediation shall occur in a timely manner.

(D) Agreement to mediate shall be provided in writing to the other party in a timely manner.

(iii) Upon agreement of the parties to mediate a dispute, the local EDIS or DoDEA school shall forward a request for a mediator to the Military Department or to DoDEA's Center for Early Dispute Resolution (CEDR), respectively.

(iv) The mediator shall be obtained from the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) unless another qualified and impartial mediator is obtained by the Military Department or CEDR.

(A) Where DOHA is used, the DOHA Center for Alternate Dispute Resolution (CADR) shall provide the mediator from its roster of mediators qualified in special education disputes.

(B) Where the Military Department or DoDEA elects to secure a mediator through its own DoD Component resources, the mediator shall be selected from the Component's roster of mediators qualified in special education disputes, or by contract with an outside mediator duly qualified in special education disputes and who is trained in effective mediation techniques.

(v) The Military Department or DoDEA through CEDR shall obtain a mediator within 15 business days of receipt of a request for mediation, or immediately request a mediator from the Director, DOHA, through the DOHA CADR.

(vi) When requested, the Director, DOHA, through the CADR, shall appoint a mediator within 15 business days of receiving the request, unless a party provides written notice to the Director, DOHA that the party refuses to participate in mediation.

(vii) Unless both parties agree otherwise, mediation shall commence in a timely manner after both parties agree to mediation.

(viii) The parents of the infant, toddler, or child, and EDIS or the school shall be parties in the mediation. With the consent of both parties, other persons may attend the mediation.

(ix) Mediation shall be conducted using the following rules:

(A) The Military Department concerned shall bear the cost of the mediation process in mediations concerning EIS.

(B) DoDEA shall bear the cost of the mediation process in mediations concerning special education and related services.

(C) Discussions and statements made during the mediation process, and any minutes, statements or other records of a mediation session other than a final executed mediation agreement, shall be considered confidential between the parties to that mediation and are not discoverable or admissible in a due process proceeding, appeal proceeding, or civil proceeding under this part.

(D) Mediation shall be confidential. The mediator may require the parties to sign a confidentiality pledge before the commencement of mediation.

(E) Either party may request a recess of a mediation session to consult advisors, whether or not present, or to consult privately with the mediator.

(F) The mediator shall ensure and the contract for mediation services shall require that any partial or complete resolution or agreement of any issue in mediation is reduced to writing, and that the written agreement is signed and dated by the parties, with a copy given to each party.

(x) Any written agreement resulting from the mediation shall state that all discussions that occurred during the mediation process and all records of the mediation other than a final executed agreement shall be confidential and may not be discoverable or admissible as evidence in any subsequent due process proceeding, appeal proceeding, or civil proceeding, and shall be legally binding upon the parties and enforceable in a district court of the United States.

(xi) All mediation sessions shall be held in a location that is convenient to both parties.

(xii) No hearing officer or adjudicative body shall draw any inference from the fact that a mediator or a party withdrew from mediation or from the fact that mediation did not result in settlement of a dispute.
