
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Due process complaint procedures.

(5)(i) Parents of infants, toddlers, and children who are covered by this part and the cognizant Military Department or DoDEA, are afforded impartial hearings and administrative appeals after the parties have waived or participated in and failed to resolve a dispute through:

(A) Mediation, in the case of an infant or toddler; or

(B) A resolution process, or mediation in lieu of the resolution process prior to proceeding to a due process hearing in the case of a child (ages 3 through 21 years, inclusive).

(ii) An impartial due process hearing is available to resolve any dispute concerning the provision of EIS to infants and toddlers with disabilities or with respect to any matter relating to the identification, evaluation, educational placement of, and the FAPE provided by the Department of Defense to children (ages 3 through 21, inclusive) who are covered by this part, in accordance with the IDEA and this part.

(A) Whenever the parents or the cognizant Military Department present a due process complaint (petition) in accordance with this part, an impartial due process hearing is available to resolve any dispute concerning the provision of EIS.

(B) When the parents of children ages 3 through 21 years, inclusive, or the cognizant Military Department or DoDEA, present a due process complaint (petition) in accordance with this part relating to any matter regarding the identification, evaluation, placement, or the provision of FAPE, the parties shall first proceed in accordance with the requirements for a statutory resolution process in accordance with this part, after which time an impartial due process hearing is available to resolve the dispute set forth by the complaint.

(iii) An expedited impartial due process hearing may be requested:

(A) By a parent when the parent disagrees with the manifestation determination or any decision regarding the child's disciplinary placement.

(B) By the school when it believes that maintaining a student in his or her current educational placement is substantially likely to result in injury to the student or others.

(iv) Any party to a special education dispute may initiate a due process hearing by filing a petition stating the specific issues that are in dispute. The initiating party is the "petitioner" and the responding party is the "respondent." The petition itself will remain confidential, in accordance with applicable law, not be released to those not a party to the litigation and its Personally Identifiable Information shall be protected in accordance with the DoD Privacy Act.

(v) Petitioner and respondent are each entitled to representation by counsel at their own expense. The parent and child may choose to be assisted by a personal representative with special knowledge or training with respect to the problems of disabilities rather than by legal counsel.

(vi) To file a petition that affords sufficient notice of the issues and commences the running of relevant timelines, petitioners shall specifically include in the petition:

(A) The name and residential address of the child and the name of the school the child is attending or the location of the EDIS serving the child.

(B) A description of the nature of the problem of the child relating to the proposed or refused initiation or change including facts (such as who, what, when, where, how, why of the problem).

(C) A proposed resolution of the problem to the extent known and available to the petitioner at the time.

(D) The signature of the parent, or if the petitioner is DoDEA or a Military Department, an authorized representative of that petitioner, or of the counsel or personal representative for the petitioner, and his or her telephone number and mailing address.

(vii) When the cognizant Military Department or DoDEA petitions for a hearing, it shall additionally:

(A) Inform the parent of the 10 business-day deadline (or 5 school days in the case of an expedited hearing) for filing a response that specifically addresses the issues raised in the petition.

(B) Provide the parent with a copy of this part.

(viii) A special rule applies for expedited hearing requests. The petitioner must state, as applicable to his or her petition:

(A) The disciplinary basis for the child's change in placement to an interim AES or other removal from the child's current placement.

(B) The reasons for the change in placement.

(C) The reasoning of the manifestation determination committee in concluding that a particular act of misconduct was not a manifestation of the child's disability.

(D) How the child's current educational placement is or is not substantially likely to result in injury to the child or others.

(ix) The petition or request for an expedited due process hearing must be delivered to:
