
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 537 - CLAIMS ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES
###### ยง 537.6 Identification of recovery incidents.
####### When to open a recovery file.

(c)(1) Upon identification of a potential recovery incident or upon receipt of a billing from a TRICARE Fiscal Intermediary or an MTF, a file will be opened and entered into the ACMP by the first ACO or CPO that learns of the event even if liability has not been established. Incidents under Navy, Air Force or Coast Guard jurisdiction will not be so entered but referred to the responsible service. Complete listings of claims/recovery offices worldwide are posted on the USARCS Web site; for the address see the Note to ยง 537.1. At the site, select the link "Claims Resources." At the next screen, click on "Tables Listing Claims Offices Worldwide.").

(2) Army responsibility for affirmative claims is as follows:

(i) Damage to or loss of real or personal property of the DOD or the Army even if located at installations or activities under the jurisdiction of other uniformed services.

(ii) Personal injury to persons whose primary care for an accident-related injury is furnished at an Army MTF, regardless of the uniformed services affiliation of the person or sponsor, but not to those treated at another uniformed service's MTF even if the person is an active duty Army member.

(iii) Personal injury to an active duty or retired Army member or a family member of either category treated under TRICARE.

(iv) A lead agency will be established whenever:

(A) Property damaged or lost belonging to more than one service is involved in the same incident.

(B) Personal injury victims are treated at MTFs of more than one service.

(C) Personal injury victims with affiliations to more than one service are treated under TRICARE.

(D) Lead agencies may be established locally for claims valued at $50,000 or less. For claims greater than $50,000 USARCS will be notified and will deal with the other service at headquarters level. (See ยง 536.32 of this chapter.)
