
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 537 - CLAIMS ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES
###### ยง 537.8 Investigation.
####### Relations with injured party.

(d)(1) When the injured party becomes known and an interview can be conducted locally, all relevant facts will be obtained unless the injured party is represented by a lawyer. In this latter event, basic information as set forth on DD Form 2527, Statement of Personal Injury (a completed sample is posted at the USARCS Web site; for the address see the Note to ยง 537.1) can be obtained without violating lawyer-client privilege. If the injured party is not immediately available, the information can be obtained by requesting assistance from another ACO, a unit claims officer, a reservist or Army National Guard (ANG) member, another federal agency, or another means.

(2) When the injured party is represented, a Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) medical release form (sample posted at the USARCS Web site; see ยง 537 (b)(4)) permitting USARCS to send out the medical records of the injured party for claims purposes, will be sent to the injured party's lawyer for completion and return.

(3) When the injured party or his or her lawyer refuses to furnish necessary information, it can usually be obtained by other means, for example, from an accident report or investigation. A notice will be furnished to all parties that the government has been assigned the right to bring a claim for the value of medical care furnished, lost pay or value of property lost or destroyed, and that the United States has the right to bring an independent cause of action. In absence of timely and appropriate response, discuss with the AAO to determine what action should be taken.
