
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter B - Claims and Accounts
##### PART 537 - CLAIMS ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES
###### ยง 537.12 Settlement authority.
####### Compromise or waiver.

(d)Any assertion may be compromised, waived or terminated in whole or in part, if for example:

(1) The cost to collect does not justify the cost of enforcement.

(2) There is evidence of fraud or misrepresentation.

(3) The U.S. cannot locate the tortfeasor.

(4) Legal merit has not been substantiated.

(5) The statute of limitations has run and the debtor refuses to pay.

(6) Collection of all or part of the amount of funds demanded would create inequity. The following criteria apply:

(i) Detailed information on what funds are available for recovery.

(ii) Reasonable value of the injured party's claim for permanent injury, pain and suffering, decreased earning power, and any other special damages.

(iii) Military, Department of Veterans Affairs, Social Security disability, and any other government benefits accruing to the injured party.

(iv) Probability and amount of future medical expenses of the government and the injured party.

(v) Present and prospective assets, income, and obligations of the injured party and those dependent on him or her.

(vi) The financial condition of the debtor.

(vii) The degree and nature of contributory negligence on the part of the injured party in causing his injury or death.

(viii) The percentage of attorney's fees that his attorney is willing to reduce.

(ix) The willingness of the tortfeasor to enter into an installment agreement.
