
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart B - Post Commander
####### ยง 552.18 Administration.
######## Request from private sector union representatives to enter installations.

(k)(1) When labor representatives request permission to enter military installations on which private contractor employees are engaged in contract work to conduct union business during working hours in connection with the contract between the government and the contractor by whom union members are employed, the installation commander may admit these representatives, provided-

(i) The presence and activities of the labor representatives will not interfere with the progress of the contract work involved; and

(ii) The entry of the representatives to the installation will not violate pertinent safety or security regulations.

(2) Labor representatives are not authorized to engage in organizing activities, collective bargaining discussions, or other matters not directly connected with the Government contract on military installations. However, the installation commander may authorize labor representatives to enter the installation to distribute organizational literature and authorization cards to employees of private contractors, provided such distribution does not-

(i) Occur in working areas or during working times;

(ii) Interfere with contract performance;

(iii) Interfere with the efficient operation of the installation; or

(iv) Violate pertinent safety or security considerations.

(3) The determination as to who is an appropriate labor representative should be made by the installation commander after consulting with his/her labor counselor or judge advocate. Nothing in this regulation, however, will be construed to prohibit private contractors' employees from distibuting organizational literature or authorization cards on installation property if such activity does not violate the conditions enumerated in paragraph (k)(2) of this section. Business offices or desk space for labor organizations on the installation is not authorized to be provided for solicitation of membership among contractors' employees, collection of dues, or other business of the labor organization not directly connected with the contract work. The providing of office or desk space for a contractor is authorized for routine functions by the working steward whose union duties are incidental to his/her assigned job and connected directly with the contract work.

(4) Only the installation commander or a contracting officer can deny entry to a labor representative who seeks permission to enter the installation in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section. If a labor representative is denied entry for any reason, such denial will be reported to the Labor Advisor, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (IL&FM), Washington, DC 20310. This report will include the reasons for denial, including-

(5) The provisions of paragraphs (k), (1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section on organizations representing private contractors' employees should be distinguished from activities involving organization and representation of Federal civilian employees. See CPR 711 for the functions, duties and obligations of an installation commander regarding Federal civilian employee unions.
