
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart B - Post Commander
####### ยง 552.18 Administration.
######## et seq.

(1) The installation commander will give preference to blind persons when granting permission to civilians to operate vending stands on installations where stands may be operated properly and satisfactorily by blind persons licensed by a State agency. Legal authority for such action is contained in the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Stand Act (20 U.S.C. 2-107). Commanders will cooperate with the appropriate State licensing agency in selecting the type, location, or relocation of vending stands to be operated by licensed blind persons, except that preference may be denied or revoked if the commander determines that-

(i) Existing security measures relative to location of the vending stand or to the clearance of the blind operator cannot be followed.

(ii) Vending stand standards relating to appearance, safety, sanitation, and efficient operation cannot be met.

(iii) For any other reasons which would adversely affect the interests of the United States or would unduly inconvenience the Department of the Army. Issuance of such a permit will not be denied because of loss of revenue caused by granting a rent-free permit for operating a vending stand to a blind person. However, the permit will not be granted if in the opinion of the responsible commander such action would reduce revenue below the point necessary for maintaining an adequate morale and recreation program. The commander should consider the fact that funds derived from certain nonappropriated fund activities such as post exchanges, motion picture theaters, and post restaurants are used to supplement appropriated funds in conducting the morale and recreation program.

(2) The preference established in paragraph (i)(1) of this section will be protected from the unfair or unreasonable competition of vending machines. No vending machine will be located within reasonable proximity of a vending stand that is operated by a licensed blind person if the vending machine vends articles of the same type sold at the stand, unless local needs require the placement of such a machine. If such is the case, the operation of, and income from the machine, will be assumed by the blind vending stand operator.

(3) So far as is practicable, goods sold at vending stands that are operated by the blind will consist of newspapers, periodicals, confections, tobacco products, articles that are dispensed automatically or are in containers or wrappings in which they were placed before they were received by the vending stand, and other suitable articles that may be approved by the installation commander for each vending stand location.

(4) If the commanders and State licensing agencies fail to reach an agreement on the granting of a permit for a vending stand, the revocation or modification of a permit, the suitability of the stand location, the assignment of vending machine proceeds, the methods of operation of the stand, or other terms of the permit (including articles which may be sold), the State licensing agency may appeal the disagreement, through channels, to the Secretary of the Army. Appeals will be filed by State licensing agencies with the installation commander who will conduct a complete investigation and will give the State licensing agency an opportunity to present information. The report of investigation with the appeal will be forwarded through channels to Headquarters, Department of the Army (DAPE-ZA), Washington, DC 20310, as soon as possible. A final decision by the Secretary of the Army will be rendered within 90 days of the filing of the appeal to the installation commander. Notification of the decision on the appeal and the action taken will be reported to the State licensing agency, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and the Department of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics).

(j) [Reserved]
