
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart B - Post Commander
####### ยง 552.18 Administration.
######## Entry, exit, and personal search.

(f)The installation commander will establish rules that govern the entry into and exit from the installation and the search of persons and their possessions as listed in paragraphs (f) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.

(1) The installation commander may direct authorized guard personnel, while in the performance of assigned duty, to search persons (including military personnel, employees, and visitors), and their possessions (including vehicles) when entering, during their stay, or when leaving facilities for which the Army has responsibility. These searches are authorized when based on probable cause that an offense has been committed or on military necessity. Instructions of commanders regarding searches should be specific and complete. When the person to be searched is a commissioned officer, or a warrant officer, the search should be conducted in private by or under the supervision of a commissioned officer, unless such is precluded by the exigencies of the situation. When the person to be searched is a noncommissioned officer, the search should be conducted in private by or under the supervision of a person of at least equal grade, unless such is precluded by the exigencies of the situation. If the situation precludes search by or under the supervision of an officer (or noncommissioned officer, as appropriate), the person conducting the search will notify a responsible commissioned officer (or noncommissioned officer, as appropriate), as soon as possible. Persons who are entering the installation should not be searched over their objection, but they may be denied the right of entry if they refuse to consent to the search. All persons entering facilities should be advised in advance (by a prominently displayed sign, AR 420-70, (Buildings and Structures)), that they are liable to search when entering the installation, while within the confines of the installation, or when leaving (AR 190-22, Search, Seizure and Disposition of Property). A copy of the above documents may be obtained by writing to headquarters, Department of the Army (DAAG-PAP-W), Washington, DC 20314.

(2) The installation commander may authorize and control hunting and fishing on a military installation under installation rules in accordance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws and Army regulations, and in harmony with cooperative plans with appropriate State and Federal conservation agencies (AR 420-74, Natural Resources-Land, Forest, and Wildlife Management). To detect violations of these rules, special guards may be posted and authorized to search persons (or possessions, including vehicles of individuals), based on military necessity. The installation commander may eject violators of game laws or post regulations and prohibit their reentry under 18 U.S.C. 1382. Violations of State laws which apply to military reservations according to the provisions of section 13, title 18, U.S.C. (Assimilative Crimes Acts), may be referred to the United States Magistrate in accordance with AR 190-29, Minor Offenses and Uniform Violation Notices-Referred to United States District Courts. Reports of violations of game laws will be reported to Federal or State authorities. An installation commander may not require membership in a voluntary sundry fund activity as a prerequisite to hunting and fishing on the installation. Accounting for the collection and spending of fees for hunting and fishing permits is outlined in chapter 12, AR 37-108, General Accounting and Reporting for Finance and Accounting Offices. A copy of the above documents may be obtained by writing to Headquarters, Department of the Army (DAAG-PAP-W), Washington, DC 20314.

(3) When the installation commander considers that the circumstances warrant its use, DA Form 1818 (Individual Property Pass), will be used to authorize military and civilian personnel to carry Government or personal property onto an installation or to remove it from an installation.

(4) Commanders will establish procedures to ensure than when blind persons are otherwise authorized to enter military facilities, their accompanying seeing-eye or guide dogs will not be denied entry. Such facilities include, but are not limited to: Cafeterias, snack bars, AAFES exchanges, retail food sales stores, medical treatment facilities, and recreational facilities. Seeing-eye or guide dogs will remain in guiding harness or on leash and under control of their blind masters at all times while in the facility. For purposes of safety and to prevent possible agitation of military police working dogs, seeing-eye or guide dogs will not be allowed in or around working dog kennels and facilities.
