
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 21 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - GENERAL MATTERS
###### Subpart E - Information Reporting on Awards Subject to 31 U.S.C. Chapter 61
####### ยง 21.560 Must DoD Components assign numbers uniformly to awards?

Yes, DoD Components must assign identifying numbers to all awards subject to this subpart, including grants, cooperative agreements, and technology investment agreements. The uniform numbering system parallels the procurement instrument identification (PII) numbering system specified in 48 CFR 204.70 (in the "Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement"), as follows:

(a) The first six alphanumeric characters of the assigned number must be identical to those specified by 48 CFR 204.7003(a)(1) to identify the DoD Component and contracting activity.

(b) The seventh and eighth positions must be the last two digits of the fiscal year in which the number is assigned to the grant, cooperative agreement, or other nonprocurement instrument.

(c) The 9th position must be a number:

(1) "1" for grants.

(2) "2" for cooperative agreements, including technology investment agreements that are cooperative agreements (see Appendix B to 32 CFR part 37).

(3) "3" for other nonprocurement instruments, including technology investment agreements that are not cooperative agreements.

(d) The 10th through 13th positions must be the serial number of the instrument. DoD Components and contracting activities need not follow any specific pattern in assigning these numbers and may create multiple series of letters and numbers to meet internal needs for distinguishing between various sets of awards.
