
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart D - Acquisition of Real Estate and Interest Therein
####### ยง 552.34 Policies relative to new acquisition.
######## Army Reserve training sites.

(g)In general, title to lands will not be acquired for exclusive use as training sites. Training sites will be acquired by one of the following means in the order listed:

(1) Use of lands under the control of the Department of the Army regardless of the agency maintaining jurisdiction, to include class II and industrial installations and other Reserve Component facilities, see title 10 U.S.C. 2331 and 2237.

(2) Use of reservoir lands of Civil Works Projects. By informal agreement with the Resident Engineer or Manager (when training activities do not involve exclusive use, construction, or destruction of vegetation) or by permit from the District Engineer (for other activities when such activities are compatible with the operation and maintenance of the project and will not endanger the use by the general public of public access areas).

(3) Use of lands, by permit or otherwise, under the control of the other military departments.

(4) Use of lands by permit of other Government-owned land, including the public domain.

(5) Use by license or nominal rental lease of local, county, or State-owned public lands.

(6) Use of privately owned land by short-term co-use lease under the authority granted in ยง 552.39.

(7) Use of non-Government-owned land by lease.

(8) Acquisition of lands excess to the requirements of the other military departments.

(9) Acquisition of lands excess to the requirements of Federal agencies other than the military departments.

(10) Acquisition of the non-Government-owned land.

(11) As a rule of thumb, lands will not be acquired for training from any source when the value of the land exceeds that of rural farm land in the area.
