
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart D - Acquisition of Real Estate and Interest Therein
####### ยง 552.33 Estates and methods of acquisition.

(a) Title to non-Government-owned real estate will be by purchase, condemnation, donation (when the authorization act specifies donation), and exchange (when the authorization act specifies exchange).

(b) Easements in non-Government-owned real estate are the same as in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Licenses in non-Government-owned real estate are generally by donation, although a nonrevocable license might be acquired by purchase.

(d) Leaseholds in non-Government-owned real estate will be by negotiation or condemnation. Leaseholds may give the Government exclusive use or may give the Government co-use with the owner for specific purposes.

(e) Jurisdiction over Government-owned real estate will be by transfer, reassignment, withdrawal, and reservation.

(f) Permits to use Government-owned real estate will be by instrument issued by another Government department or agency. Although in the nature of a license (may be revocable or nonrevocable), the instrument is designated as a "permit", since it relates to Government-owned real estate, to distinguish it from a "license" relating to non-Government-owned real estate.

(g) Recapture of use of former Government-owned real estate which was disposed of subject to a "National Security Clause," a "National Emergency Clause," or a similar provision will be by letter from the Chief of Engineers to the owner of the property, based upon a directive from the Secretary of the Army or his designee.

(h) Revestment of title to former Government-owned real estate which was disposed of subject to a reverter provision, such as a "National Defense Purpose Clause" will be by letter to the owner by the official of the department designated in the conveyance by the Government.

(i) Procurement of options on real estate which is "suitable and likely to be required" in connection with a military public works project, prior to express authorization by law for the acquisition of said real estate will be by negotiation.

(j) Extinguishment of third party interests in lands owned or controlled by the United States, such as outstanding oil, gas, and other mineral rights; grazing rights; timber rights; water rights; and easements for rights-of-way for highways, railroads, power lines, communication lines, water lines, and sewer lines will be the same as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. Payment for extinguishment of grazing rights or licenses on public domain or other property owned by or under the control of the United States is made pursuant to Act July 9, 1942; 56 Stat. 654; as amended by Act May 28, 1948; 62 Stat. 277; and as further amended by Act October 29, 1949; 63 Stat. 996 (43 U.S.C. 315q and r).
