
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart D - Acquisition of Real Estate and Interest Therein
####### ยง 552.34 Policies relative to new acquisition.
######## Order of priority for method of acquisition.

(b)If the activity qualifies as essential to an assigned mission but the need cannot be filled by the use of other Army property or other Federal property on a permit or joint use basis, the following alternatives will be considered in the order listed:

(1) Donation or long-term nominal rental lease.

(2) Transfer from Navy or Air Force. Acquisition of lands excess to the requirements of other military departments.

(3) Recapture of use.

(4) Public Domain. Withdrawal from the public domain for military use. (Pub. L. 85-337, Feb. 28, 1958 (72 Stat. 28) requires that an Act of Congress be obtained to withdraw, reserve, or restrict for defense purposes more than 5,000 acres of the public domain.)

(5) Acquisition by exchange. Exercise of existing authorities for the exchange of Government-owned real property for non-Government-owned real property that is by type or location adaptable to the military need.

(6) Transfer from other Federal agencies. Acquisition of lands excess to the requirement of Federal agencies other than military departments.

(7) Acquisition by purchase, lease or condemnation.
