
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart D - Acquisition of Real Estate and Interest Therein
####### ยง 552.34 Policies relative to new acquisition.
######## Department of Defense policy relative to liaison with Governor of Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(n)By letter dated August 19, 1953, the Secretary of Defense informed the Governor of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico that the Department of Defense would establish liaison with the Governor to coordinate all military requirements for land acquisition in Puerto Rico. By memorandum dated August 19, 1953, the Secretary of Defense instructed that such liaison would be established under the direction of the Department of the Army, in coordination with the other interested services. On September 8, 1953, the Department of the Army requested the Commander in Chief, Caribbean Command, to establish such liaison. Liaison is being maintained locally between the Commandant of the Caribbean Sea Frontier and the Chairman of the Puerto Rico Planning Board. The liaison applies to the proposed acquisition of title or any interest in land which is other than (Federal) Government-owned land. In all cases, liaison action will be initiated during the advance planning or site selection stages. The purpose is to give Puerto Rican officials advance notice of military real property requirements and to give them an opportunity to suggest suitable alternatives in an effort to improve public relations with Puerto Rican officials, landowners, and the general public.
