
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### specialedcomplaint@osdgc.osd.mil.

(ii) Within 10 business days of receipt of the petition (5 school days when school is in session in the case of a petition for an expedited hearing), the respondent shall deliver a copy of the written response to the petitioner and file the original written response with the hearing officer. Filing may be made by mail to P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, Virginia 22203, by fax to 703-696-1831, by hand delivery if approved in advance by the hearing officer, or by email toIf a hearing officer has not yet been appointed, the respondent will deliver the original written response to the Director, DOHA in accordance with paragraph (d)(5)(ix) of this section.

(iii) The respondent shall specifically address the issues raised in the due process hearing petition.

(iv) If the respondent is the cognizant Military Department or DoDEA, the response shall include:

(A) An explanation of why the respondent proposed or refused to take the action at issue in the due process complaint.

(B) A description of each evaluation procedure, assessment, record, or report the DoD Component used as the basis for the proposed or refused action.

(C) A description of the options that the respondent considered and the reasons why those options were rejected.

(D) A description of the other factors that are relevant to the respondent's proposed or refused action.

(v) The respondent may file a notice of insufficient petition within 15 business days of receiving a petition if the respondent wishes to challenge the sufficiency of the petition for failure to state the elements required by the IDEA. Within 5 business days of receiving a notice of insufficient petition, the hearing officer will issue a decision and will notify the parties in writing of that determination.

(vi) A response to the petitioner under (d)(6)(ii) of this section shall not be construed to preclude the respondent from asserting that the due process complaint was insufficient using the procedures available under (d)(6)(v) of this section.

(vii) Parties may amend a petition only if:

(A) The other party consents in writing to such amendment and is given the opportunity to resolve the complaint through the resolution process; or

(B) The hearing officer grants permission, except that the hearing officer may not grant such permission at any time later than 5 days before a due process hearing is scheduled to begin.

(viii) The filing of an amended petition resets the timelines for:

(A) The conduct of a resolution meeting and the resolution period relating to the amended petition, and

(B) All deadlines for responses and actions required following the receipt of the amended petition, and for conducting a due process hearing on the amended petition.
