
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart E - Solicitation on Military Reservations
####### ยง 552.67 Life insurance policy content.

Insurance policies offered and sold on Army installations must-

(a) Comply with the insurance laws of the States or country in which the installations are located. The applicable State insurance commissioner will determine such compliance if there is a dispute or complaint.

(b) Contain no restrictions because of military service or military occupational specialty of the insured, unless restrictions are clearly indicated on the face of the policy.

(c) Plainly indicate any extra premium charges imposed because of military service or military occupational specialty.

(d) Not vary in the amount of death benefit or premium based on the length of time the policy has been in force, unless it is clearly described therein.

(e) For purposes of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, be stamped with an appropriate reference on the face of the policy to focus attention on any extra premium charges imposed and on any variations in the amount of death benefit or premium based on the length of time the policy has been in force.

(f) Variable life insurance policies may be offered provided they meet the criteria of the appropriate insurance regulatory agency and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

(g) Show only the actual premiums payable for life insurance coverage.
