
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart E - Solicitation on Military Reservations
####### ยง 552.60 Supervision of on-post commercial activities.
######## Forbidden solicitation practices.

(d)Installation commanders will prohibit the following:

(1) Solicitation during enlistment or induction processing or during basic combat training, and within the first half of the one station unit training cycle.

(2) Solicitation of "mass," group, or "captive" audiences.

(3) Making appointments with or soliciting of military personnel who are in an "on-duty" status.

(4) Soliciting without an appointment in areas used for housing or processing transient personnel, or soliciting in barracks areas used as quarters.

(5) Use of official identification cards by retired or Reserve members of the Armed Forces to gain access to military installations to solicit.

(6) Offering of false, unfair, improper, or deceptive inducements to purchase or trade.

(7) Offering rebates to promote transaction or to eliminate competition. (Credit union interest refunds to borrowers are not considered a prohibited rebate.)

(8) Use of any manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent device, scheme, or artifice, including misleading advertising and sales literature.

(9) Any oral or written representations which suggest or appear that the Department of the Army sponsors or endorses the company or its agents, or the goods, services, and commodities offered for sale.

(10) Commercial solicitation by an active duty member of the Armed Forces of another member who is junior in rank or grade, at any time, on or off the military installation (Army Regulation 600-50).

(11) Entry into any unauthorized or restricted area.

(12) Assignment of desk space for interviews, except for specific prearranged appointments. During appointments, the agent must not display desk or other signs announcing the name of the company or product affiliation.

(13) Use of the "Daily Bulletin" or any other notice, official, or unofficial, announcing the presence of an agent and his availability.

(14) Distribution of literature other than to the person being interviewed.

(15) Wearing of name tags that include the name of the company or product that the agent represents.

(16) Offering of financial benefit or other valuable or desirable favors to military or civilian personnel to help or encourage sales transactions. This does not include advertising material for prospective purchasers (such as pens, pencils, wallets, and notebooks, normally with a value of $1 or less).

(17) Use of any portion of installation facilities, to include quarters, as a showroom or store for the sale of goods or services, except as specifically authorized by regulations governing the operations of exchanges, commissaries, non-appropriated fund instrumentalities, and private organizations. This is not intended to preclude normal home enterprises, providing State and local laws are complied with.

(18) Advertisements citing addresses or telephone numbers of commercial sales activities conducted on the installation.
