
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart E - Solicitation on Military Reservations
####### ยง 552.62 Advertising rules and educational programs.

(a) The Department of the Army expects that commercial enterprises soliciting military personnel through advertisements appearing in unofficial military publications will voluntarily observe the highest business ethics in describing both the goods, services, and commodities and the terms of the sale (such as guarantees and warranties). If not, the publisher of the military publication will request the advertiser to observe them. The advertising of credit will conform to the provisions of the Truth-in-Lending Act, as implemented by Regulation Z, published by the Federal Reserve Board (12 CFR part 226).

(b) Commanders will provide appropriate information and educational programs to provide members of the Army with information pertaining to the conduct of their personal commercial affairs (e.g., the protections and remedies offered consumers under the Truth-in-Lending Act, insurance, Government benefits, savings, estate planning, and budgeting). The services or representatives of credit unions, banks, and nonprofit military associations approved by HQDA may be used for this purpose provided their programs are entirely educational. Under no circumstances will the services of commercial agents, including loan or finance companies and their associations, be used for this purpose. Educational materials prepared or used by outside organizations or experts in this field may be adapted or used with applicable permission, provided the material is entirely educational and does not contain applications or contract forms.
