
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Statutory resolution process.

(7)A resolution meeting shall be convened by DoDEA and a resolution period afforded, in accordance with this section, for any dispute in which a due process petition has been filed regarding the identification, evaluation, or educational placement, or the provision of FAPE for children ages 3 to 21, inclusive.

(i) Within 15 calendar days of receiving the parent's petition for due process (7 calendar days in the case of an expedited hearing), DoDEA, through the pertinent school principal or superintendent, shall convene a dispute resolution meeting, which must be attended by:

(A) The parents.

(B) A legal representative of the parents if desired by the parents.

(C) A DoDEA official designated and authorized by the District Superintendent or Area Director to exercise decision-making authority on behalf of DoDEA.

(D) A DoDEA legal representative, only if the parents are represented by counsel at the resolution meeting.

(E) The relevant members of the child's CSC who have specific knowledge of the facts identified in the petition.

(ii) The parties may agree to mediate in lieu of conducting a resolution meeting or in lieu of completing the resolution period. The resolution meeting need not be held if the parties agree in writing to waive the meeting or agree to use the mediation process.

(iii) Failure to convene or participate in resolution meeting.

(A) If DoDEA has offered to convene a resolution meeting and has been unable to obtain parental participation in the resolution meeting after making and documenting its reasonable efforts, DoDEA may, at the conclusion of the resolution period (30 days or 15 days in the case of an expedited hearing) request that a hearing officer dismiss the parent's due process complaint or request for an expedited due process hearing.

(B) If DoDEA fails to convene a resolution meeting within 15 days of receipt of a due process complaint or if it fails to participate in the resolution meeting, the parent may request the hearing officer to immediately convene the due process hearing without waiting for the 30-day resolution period to expire.

(iv) DoDEA shall have a 30-day resolution period, counted from the receipt of the complaint by the school principal, (15 days in the case of an expedited hearing request) within which to resolve the complaint to the satisfaction of the parents.

(v) The resolution period may be adjusted because of one of the following events:

(A) Both parties agree in writing to waive the resolution meeting.

(B) After the resolution meeting starts, but before the end of the applicable resolution period, the parties agree in writing that no agreement is possible and agree to waive the balance of the resolution period.

(C) Both parties agree in writing to continue the resolution meeting at the end of the applicable resolution period, but later the parent or the school withdraws from the resolution process.

(vi) If a partial or complete resolution to the dispute is reached at the resolution meeting, the parties must execute a written agreement that is:

(A) Signed by both the parents and a representative of the school with authority to bind the school to the terms of the agreement.

(B) Legally enforceable in a U.S. District Court of competent jurisdiction, unless the parties have voided the agreement within an agreement review period of 3 business days following the execution of the agreement.

(vii) Discussions held, minutes, statements, and other records of a resolution meeting, and any final executed resolution agreement are not presumed confidential and therefore are discoverable and admissible in a due process proceeding, appeal proceeding, or civil proceeding, except when the parties have agreed to confidentiality.

(viii) If DoDEA has not resolved the complaint to the satisfaction of the parents at the expiration of the resolution period or the adjusted resolution period, if applicable:

(A) DoDEA shall provide written notice to the hearing officer, copy to the parents, within 3 business days (1 business day in the case of an expedited hearing) of the expiration of the resolution period or adjusted resolution period that the parties failed to reach agreement.

(B) Upon receipt of that notification by the hearing officer, all of the applicable timelines for proceeding to a due process hearing under this section shall commence.

(ix) If the parties execute a binding written agreement at the conclusion of the resolution period, and do not subsequently declare it void during the 3-business day agreement review period, then:

(A) DoDEA shall provide written notice to the hearing officer, copy to the parents, at the conclusion of the agreement review period that the parties have reached an agreement for resolution of complaints set forth in the due process petition.

(B) Upon receipt of that notification by the presiding hearing officer, no due process hearing shall proceed on the issues resolved.
