
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart E - Solicitation on Military Reservations
####### ยง 552.69 Application by companies to solicit on military installations in the United States, its territories, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

Before a company may be accredited to solicit on a military installation, the commander must receive a letter of application, signed by the company's president or vice president. It must be understood that a knowing and willful false statement is punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). The letter of application will-

(a) Report the States in which the company is qualified and licensed to sell insurance.

(b) Give the name, complete address, and telephone number of each agent who will solicit on the installation if approval is granted; the State in which licensed; the date of licensing and the expiration date; and a statement of agreement to report all future additions and separations of agents employed for solicitation on the installation.

(c) List all policies and their form numbers that are to be offered for purchase on the installation. Application will be offered for purchase and that these policies meet the requirements of ยง 552.67(d).

Attest that-

(1) The privilege of soliciting the purchase of life insurance is not currently suspended or withdrawn from the company by any of the military departments.

(2) The privilege of soliciting the purchase of life insurance is not currently suspended or withdrawn by any Armed Forces installations from any of the agents named.

(3) The company and the agent named have proper and currently validated licenses as required by ยง 552.68.

(4) The company assumes full responsibility for its agents complying with this regulation and with any regulations published by the installation commander.
