
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart E - Solicitation on Military Reservations
####### ยง 552.68 Minimum requirements for agents.

(a) In the United States, its territories, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, agents may be authorized to solicit on an installation provided-

(1) Both the company and its agents are licensed in the State in which the installation is located. "State" as it pertains to political jurisdictions includes the 50 States, territories, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(2) The application to solicit is made by an accredited company (ยง 552.69).

(b) On Army military installation in foreign areas.

(1) An agent may solicit business on U.S. military installations in foreign areas if-

(i) The company he represents has been accredited by DOD;

(ii) His name is on the official list of accredited agents maintained by the applicable major command;

(iii) His employer, the company, has obtained clearance for him from the appropriate overseas commanders; and

(iv) The commanding officer of the military installation on which he desires to solicit has granted him permission.

(2) To be employed for overseas solicitation and designated as an accredited agent, agents must have at least 1 year of successful life insurance underwriting in the United States or its territories. Generally, this is within the 5 years preceding the date of application.

(3) General agents and agents will represent only one accredited commercial insurance company. The overseas commander may waive this requirement if multiple representation can be proven to be in the best interest of DOD personnel.

(4) An agent must possess a current State license. The overseas commander may waive this requirement on behalf of an accredited agent who has been continuously residing and successfully selling life insurance in foreign areas and forfeits his eligibility for a State license, through no fault of his own, due to the operation of State law or regulation governing domicile requirements, or requiring that the agent's company be licensed to do business in that State. The request for a waiver will contain the name of the State and jurisdiction, which would not renew the agent's license.

(5) An agent, once accredited in an overseas area, may not change his affiliation from the staff of one general agent to another, unless the losing company certifies, in writing, that the release is without justifiable prejudice. Unified commanders will have final authority to determine justifiable prejudice.

(6) Where the accredited insurer's policy permits, an overseas accredited life insurance agent, if duly qualified to engage in security activities either as a registered representative of a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers or an associated person of a broker/dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission only, may offer life insurance and securities for sale simultaneously. In cases of commingled sales, the allotment of pay for the purchase of securities cannot be made to the insurer.

(7) Overseas commanders will exercise further agent control procedures as necessary.
