
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart E - Solicitation on Military Reservations
####### ยง 552.73 Minimum requirements for automobile insurance policies.

Policies sold on installations by both accepted and accredited insurers will meet all statutory and regulatory requirements of the State or host nation in which the installation is located. Policies will not be issued in amounts lower than the minimum limits prescribed by these authorities. In addition, policies will-

(a) Clearly identify the name of the insurer and the full address.

(1) Applications without the name and address of the insurer underwriting the insurance may be used; the names of sales or underwriting agents alone is not sufficient.

(2) Post office box addresses are not an acceptable address.

(b) Provide bodily injury and property damage liability coverage for all drivers authorized by the named insured to operate the vehicle. Military indorsements, excluding persons other than the named insured, whether in the military or not, are not acceptable.

(c) Not contain unusual limitations or restrictions, including, but not limited to, the following:

(1) Limitations specifying that coverage is afforded only when the insured vehicle is operated in the designated geographic areas in the United States (e.g., coverage applicable only on a military reservation). If the installation is located within the United States, the standard provision limiting coverage to the United States and Canada is acceptable.

(2) Coverage limited to exclude liability for bodily injury to passengers and guests if such a liability exists as a matter of law.
