
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart F - Fort Lewis Land Use Policy
####### § 552.87 General.
######## Recreational use.

(c)(1) All individuals or organizations, military or civilian, desiring access to the range complex for recreational purposes must apply for and possess a valid Ft. Lewis area access permit except as outlined in § 552.87(c) of this section. Procedures are described in §§ 552.91 and 552.92.

(2) Authorized Department of Defense (DOD) patrons enroute to or using DPCA recreational areas (appendix A) are not required to possess a permit. Travel to and from DPCA recreational use areas is restricted to the most direct route by paved or improved two lane roads, and direct trail access. Other travel in the range complex is governed by this regulation.

(3) Recreational use of CTAs without permit is authorized only for DOD personnel of Ft. Lewis and their accompanied guests. Driving Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) in the CTAs is restricted to paved or improved gravel roads, except for direct trail access to DPCA recreational areas at Shannon Marsh and Wright's Lake. Other recreational activities authorized in the CTAs for DOD personnel without permit are walking, jogging and picnicking at established picnic sites.

(4) Organizations or groups whose authorized recreational activity is of such a nature as to require special advanced confirmed commitments from Ft. Lewis for land, including Scout Camporees, seasonal or one-time regional meets, and so on, must apply to the Ft. Lewis Area Access Section in writing. If the area is available, the request will be forwarded to the Director of Engineering and Housing (DEH) for lease processing. Not less than 180 days are required for processing of these special requests. Organizations or groups whose activity requires military equipment or other special support from Ft. Lewis must also apply in writing. If a permit is granted, the special assistance request will be coordinated by the Public Affairs and Liaison Office (PALO). Sample request guide and mailing address are available for the Access Section.

(5) All other recreational uses require a permit in accordance with this regulation.
