
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart F - Fort Lewis Land Use Policy
####### ยง 552.95 Compatible use.

(a) Unit commanders may, during training area scheduling, request that no permit holders be allowed in their areas. Justification must be in the remarks column of HFL Form 473 (Range, Facility and Training Area Request). If this restriction is granted, the Ft. Lewis Area Access Section will close the appropriate areas. In the absence of a trainer's request for closure, the following military activities are considered incompatible with non-training access and will, when scheduled, block affected areas:

(1) Live-fire training events with surface danger zones falling into training areas.

(2) Parachute and air assault operations.

(3) Field artillery firing. The numbered training area occupied by the weapons will be closed.

(4) Motorized infantry operations that will use the majority of the road net in a training area, traveling at higher than normal speeds.

(5) Training employing riot agents or smoke generating equipment.

(b) The Range Officer may close training areas based on multiple occupation by large units.

(c) Areas allocated to modern firearm deer hunting are closed to training and recreational activities. When State Fish and Game pheasant release sites can be isolated by swamps, streams, or roads from the rest of a training area, multiple occupancy is authorized.
