
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart F - Fort Lewis Land Use Policy
####### ยง 552.91 Individual permit procedures.

(a) Individuals desiring area access for authorized activities (see appendix C) must register in person at the Ft. Lewis Area Access Section, Bldg T-6127. Minimum age is 18 years, except for active duty military personnel. Individuals under 18 years of age must be sponsored and accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.

(b) Individual registration requires:

(1) Picture ID.

(2) Personal information including Social Security Number.

(3) Vehicle identification and license number, if a vehicle is to be brought on post.

(4) Names and ages of minor family members who will accompany a registered person.

(5) Liability release signature.

(6) Certification that intended activities are on the authorized list and are not for-profit commercial activities. Persons who submit false certificates are subject to prosecution in Federal Court Under 5 U.S.C. 1001, and the provisions of this section.

(c) A permit and a vehicle pass will be issued to each person authorized area access. The permit is not transferable. Entry to the range complex without the issued permit is forbidden.

(d) Individual write-in requests may be authorized for extraordinary circumstances.
