
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart G - Firearms and Weapons
####### ยง 552.102 Requirements for possession and use.

DOD military and civilian personnel, their family members, USAR/NG personnel and civilians employed on, visiting or traveling through this installation may possess legally-defined and privately-owned firearms, ammunition, BB and pellet guns, knives, bows and arrows, and crossbows under the following conditions:

(a) Privately-owned firearms, crossbows, BB and pellet guns possessed or stored on the installation must be registered at the installation Provost Marshal's Office within three working days after arrival on the installation, or after obtaining the weapon, except:

(1) Firearms legally brought onto the installation for the purpose of hunting or firing at an approved firing range, and only for the period of time the person possessing the firearms is hunting or firing on the range.

(2) Firearms carried by federal, state, county or local law enforcement personnel when in the performance of official law enforcement duties.

(3) Firearms carried or transported, in full compliance with Georgia State Laws, on Georgia State Highways 119 and 144 by personnel traveling through the installation only. Travel off of these state highways or stopping, other than for emergency purposes, while on the installation is prohibited.

(b) Personnel residing in family housing, BOQ, BEQ/VOQ and guest housing, may store legally-acquired, authorized ammunition, knives with a blade measuring more than 3 inches, bows and arrows, registered crossbows, registered BB and pellet guns and registered firearms within their quarters.

(c) Personnel residing in troop billets may store legally-acquired authorized ammunition, knives and blades measuring more than 3 inches, bows and arrows, registered crossbows, registered BB and pellet guns and registered firearms in unit arms rooms. The unit arms room should utilize a standard weapons card and log book to document storage, removal, and return.

(d) Persons using weapons borrowed from another must have the documentation required in ยง 552.103(a) as applicable in their possession when carrying, transporting or using the weapon on the installation.

(e) Persons under the age of 17 must be accompanied by a person over the age of 21 who will be responsible for compliance with the requirements of this regulation while hunting or target shooting on the installation and when purchasing legal arms (including knives with blades over 3 inches) and ammunition from installation retail outlets.
