
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart H - Regulation Controlling the Access to the Fort Lewis Main Cantonment Area and Prohibiting Certain Conduct Upon Fort Lewis Military Reservation
####### ยง 552.108 General.
######## Access controls.

(a)(1) Fort Lewis is a closed post. Access to the installation is limited to persons with prior approved permission to enter.

(2) Public access into the Main Cantonment Area of Fort Lewis is controlled through a series of static security posts manned by sentries empowered to grant or deny access to persons and material. The "Main Cantonment Area" is that area of the Fort Lewis Military Reservation shown on the overprinted 1:50,000 Fort Lewis Special Map (DMA Stock No. V791SFTLEWIS) excluding those areas designated thereon as Impact Areas, lettered Close-In Training Areas, or numbered Training Areas. A full sized map is located at the Fort Lewis Area Access Office, Building T-6127. As defined, the Main Cantonment Area includes, but is not necessarily limited to, those areas of the installation containing Government housing areas, schools, medical facilities, troop billets, the installation command and control facilities, Gray Army Air Field, Madigan Army Medical Center, and certain recreational sites controlled by the Director of Personnel and Community Activities.

(3) Entry of the general public into the Main Cantonment Area at any location other than through established manned access control points is strictly prohibited. For the purposes of this regulation, entry includes the entrance of the person, or the insertion of any part of his body, or the introduction of any unauthorized material.
