
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart H - Regulation Controlling the Access to the Fort Lewis Main Cantonment Area and Prohibiting Certain Conduct Upon Fort Lewis Military Reservation
####### ยง 552.109 Routine security controls.
######## Visitor's passes.

(c)HFL Form 1138 (Fort Lewis Visitor Pass) valid for a period not to exceed 24 hours unless otherwise noted below, may be issued only when one or more of the following criteria is met.

(1) Personnel in possession of proper orders directing temporary duty at Fort Lewis may be issued a visitor's pass for periods not to exceed 13 days. Personnel ordered to temporary duty at Fort Lewis for periods in excess of 13 days but less than 90 days will be required to obtain a temporary vehicle registration.

(2) Persons visiting Fort Lewis military personnel or their family members may be issued visitor's passes for periods up to and including 13 days when personally requested by the military sponsor.

(3) Moving vans and commercial delivery vehicles will be issued visitor's passes after the operator displays a bill of lading or other official documentation demonstrating a legitimate need to enter Fort Lewis.

(4) Contract vehicles not qualifying for installation vehicle registration pursuant to Fort Lewis Supplement 1 to AR 190-5 will be issued a visitor's pass as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, after the purpose of the visit has been verified by the Contracting Officer's Representative, or the Contractor when the former is not available.

(5) Prior to issuing a visitor's pass to unsponsored personnel who desire to visit unit areas, club facilities and other recreational facilities, security personnel will telephonically contact the person to be visited. If the person to be visited cannot be contacted to verify the visit, the visitor will be denied entry. Unsponsored personnel desiring to visit the Fort Lewis Museum may be issued a visitor's pass valid until museum closing time on day of issue, provided security personnel telephonically contact the museum and verify the hours of public operation that day prior to issuing the visitor's pass.

(6) Soldiers, dependent family members, and Department of the Army employees who sponsor visitors to the installation remain responsible for the conduct of their guests on Fort Lewis for the duration of the visit.
