
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart H - Regulation Controlling the Access to the Fort Lewis Main Cantonment Area and Prohibiting Certain Conduct Upon Fort Lewis Military Reservation
####### ยง 552.108 General.
######## Prohibited Activities.

(c)Department of Defense policy permits commanders to prohibit any expressive activity which could interfere with or prevent the orderly accomplishment of the installation's mission, or which presents a clear danger to the loyalty, discipline or morale of their soldiers. Therefore, unless the prior approval of the installation commander or his designated representative has been obtained, no person while on the Fort Lewis Military Reservation shall:

(1) Engage in protests, public speeches, sit-ins, or demonstrations promoting a political point of view.

(2) Engage in partisan political campaigning or electioneering.

(3) Display or distribute commercial advertising or solicit business.

(4) Interrupt or disturb a military formation, ceremony, class or other activity.

(5) Obstruct movement on any street, sidewalk, or pathway without prior authority.

(6) Utter to any person abusive, insulting, profane, indecent or otherwise provocative language that by its very utterance tends to incite an immediate breach of the peace.

(7) Distribute or post publications, including pamphlets, newspapers, magazines, handbills, flyers, leaflets, and other printed material, except through regularly established and approved distribution outlets.

(8) Circulate petitions or engage in picketing or similar demonstrations for any purpose.

(9) Disobey a proper request or order by Department of Defense (DoD) police, military police, or other competent authority to disperse or to leave the installation.
