
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart I - Physical Security of Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives - Fort Lewis, Washington
####### ยง 552.120 Possession and control.

(a) Possession of weapons on the post by civilians is prohibited with the following exceptions:

(1) Engaged in authorized hunting.

(2) Engaged in authorized target practice.

(3) Engaged in authorized and organized shooting matches.

(b) Request for authorization for these exceptions will be submitted in writing to the Commanding General, I Corps and Fort Lewis. Prior coordination for the use of ranges will be made through the Range Control Officer or Range Scheduling. Civilians who fail to comply with this regulation are subject to charges of Trespassing, Unlawful Discharge of a Firearm, and other criminal offenses as applicable.

(c) Military or civilian personnel are not authorized to bring personal weapons into field training sites.

(d) Carrying of concealed privately owned weapons by either military or civilian personnel is prohibited while on the Fort Lewis Military Reservation regardless of whether a state or county permit has been obtained. For the purpose of this regulation, a concealed weapon is any instrument used or designed to be used in an offensive or defensive manner which is carried in such a way as to be hidden from ordinary view. Folding knives with a blade of three inches or less are specifically excluded from this definition. Request to carry concealed weapons will be submitted in writing, with full what and why justification, to the Commanding General, I Corps and Fort Lewis, through appropriate channels.
