
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart I - Physical Security of Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives - Fort Lewis, Washington
####### ยง 552.122 Personnel not authorized to possess or retain personal weapons.

(a) Possession, retention or storage of personal weapons or ammunition by person(s) described below is prohibited:

(1) Any person who has been convicted in any court of a crime of violence. For the purpose of this regulation, a crime of violence is one in which the use of force or threat of force is an element.

(2) Any person who is a fugitive from justice.

(3) Any person who has been convicted in any court of the possession, use, or sale of marijuana, dangerous or narcotic drugs.

(4) Any person who is presently declared as mentally incompetent or who is presently committed to any mental institution.

(5) Any civilian, or other than a military family member or a law enforcement officer authorized to carry the weapon under state or federal law, while on Fort Lewis or a sub-installation, except while hunting or engaged in authorized target practice or an organized match, unless specifically authorized in writing by the Commanding General, I Corps and Fort Lewis.

(b) Any person under the age of eighteen is prohibited from the use of firearms unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or legal guardian.

(c) Delivery of a personal handgun to persons known to be under the age of twenty-one, persons known to have been convicted of a crime or violence, persons known to be a drug abuser or under the influence of drugs, persons known to be an alcoholic or currently under the influence of alcohol or a person known to be of unsound mind, is prohibited.
