
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart J - Control of Firearms, Ammunition and Other Dangerous Weapons on Fort Gordon
####### ยง 552.126 Definitions.
######## Dangerous Instruments.

(c)Any device which is designed or redesigned, made or remade, modified or remodified to be used as an offensive or defensive weapon. Devices of this type include but are not limited to:

(1) "Constant companion" or any similar weapon, designed or redesigned, made, or remade modified or remodified to be worn as a belt buckle, brass knuckles, "Knucklers," and "Knucks."

(2) Studded or spiked wrist bands, or any device designed or redesigned, made or remade, modified or remodified to fit over the hand or wrist which can be used to cause grave bodily harm.

(3) Blackjacks, slapjacks, slappers, saps, including homemade substitutes, other bludgeons (with or without handles), and metal pipes.

(4) "Nanchaku" (num-chucks), two or more sticks connected by rope, cord, or chain and normally used as a martial arts weapon. "Shuriken", a disc or any geometrical object designed to be thrown as a weapon. "Manrikiqusari" or "Kusari," a rope or cord joined to a weight at each end and designed to be used as a weapon. "Sai" fighting forks or other similar weapons.

(5) Any finger ring with blades or sharp objects that are capable of being projected/extended from the surface of the ring.

(6) Any device capable and primarily intended for discharging darts or needles.

(7) All firearms.

(8) Slingshots (not including small slingshots made for use by children), other missile throwing devices, or any other instrument designed to produce bodily harm.
