
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart J - Control of Firearms, Ammunition and Other Dangerous Weapons on Fort Gordon
####### ยง 552.127 Prohibitions.
######## Exemptions.

(f)Nothing in this subpart shall prohibit:

(1) Military members or DOD civilian employees from possessing or using military weapons, military ammunition or explosives, or military devices in a lawful manner while in the performance of their military duties while acting under orders of superior military authority, for training, or other authorized purposes, as prescribed by applicable Army Regulations.

(2) Military and DOD civilian personnel, while in the performance of official law enforcement duties, from possessing or using government ammunition, explosives or devices in a lawful manner, as prescribed by applicable laws or regulations or by their lawful superiors.

(3) Federal, state, county or local law enforcement personnel, while in the performance of official law enforcement duties, from possessing or using government or privately-owned weapons, ammunition, explosives or devices in a lawful manner, as prescribed by applicable laws or regulations or by their lawful superiors.

(4) Government contractors, while in performance of their contract from possessing or using weapons, ammunition, explosives or devices, IAW the provisions of their contract and as determined by the contracting officer.

(5) Individuals with Federal firearms licenses (class III) from possessing, carrying, and transporting class III weapons IAW Federal regulations; however, they are prohibited from concealing, storing, transferring, or selling class III weapons within the confines of Fort Gordon.

(6) Individuals from possessing, carrying, transporting, or storing decorative, ornamental, and ceremonial swords and sabers within the confines of Fort Gordon when used strictly for display and ceremonies.
