
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart L - Prohibited Personnel Practices on the Installation of Fort Jackson, South Carolina
####### ยง 552.152 Prohibited practices.
######## et seq.,

(a) The possession, delivery, sale, transfer, or introduction into the installation of Fort Jackson of any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or reasonably intended for use in introducing into the human body a controlled substance, as defined in the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801,is prohibited.

(b) Unless an exception is approved by the Chief of Staff or a Major Subordinate Commander for a special occasion, consumption of alcoholic beverages, or the possession of an open container thereof, is prohibited under the circumstances listed in this section. For the purpose of this part, an "alcoholic beverage" is any liquid beverage containing any amount of ethyl alcohol, including wines, malt beverages and distilled spirits.

(1) By military personnel in uniform during duty hours (0730-1630).

(2) By military personnel during their assigned duty hours when different than those in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) By civilian employees during their assigned duty hours. Lunch time is not considered duty time for civilian employees.

(4) By civilian or military personnel in places of duty.

(5) By any person in a public place, except: in the Twin Lakes and Weston Lake Recreational Areas, in the immediate vicinity of Oyster Point (Officers' Club), at installation club facilities governed by section II of AR 215-2, and at Army/Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) eating establishments which serve alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption.

(6) By any person in any Fort Jackson parking lot or parking area, to include the Burger King parking lot and all parking lots of AAFES facilities and installation club facilities.

(c) The presence of any person in a training area or of any permanent party soldier or civilian employee in a trainee/receptee billeting area while impaired by alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs is prohibited. For the purpose of this part, "Impaired by alcoholic beverages" for military personnel is defined as having a blood alcohol level of .05 percent (.05 is equivalent to 55 milligrams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood) or more.

(d) Privately Owned Firearms and Ammunition. For the purpose of this part, a "firearm" means any device which is designed to or readily may be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive. Air/pellet guns, BB guns and bows are subject to all of the provisions of this paragraph except paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(1) It is prohibited for persons residing on the installation to fail to register privately owned firearms with their unit commander.

(2) Storage of privately owned firearms in the barracks is prohibited. For the purposes of this part, "barracks" does not include BOQs or SBEQs.

(3) It is prohibited to store privately owned firearms in BOQs, SBEQs, or family quarters unless the firearm is unloaded, ammunition is stored separately from the firearm in a locked container, and one of the following methods for firearms storage is employed: by using a trigger locking device, by storing the firearm in a locked container, by removing the firing pin from the firearm and storing the firing pin in a locked container, or by disassembling the firearm and storing the disassembled parts in separate places. For the purposes of this part a "locked container" and a "locking device" mean locked containers and locking devices the keys to which are stored in a place not assessable to persons under 18 years of age.

(4) It is prohibited to carry on one's person any privately owned firearm in a public place on the installation of Fort Jackson unless participating in an authorized sporting activity or hunting in accordance with applicable regulations.

(5) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a person under 18 years of age is prohibited from carrying on his or her person a firearm outside the presence of a responsible adult.

(6) Carrying a concealed firearm on one's person, except by military, state and Federal law enforcement authorities in the performance of their duties, is prohibited.

(7) It is prohibited to transport in a vehicle any privately owned firearm except in a manner prescribed by the laws of South Carolina.

(8) It is prohibited to carry on one's person or transport in a vehicle any privately owned firearm within the Weston Lakes and Twin Lakes Recreation areas.

(e) Weapons Other Than Privately Owned Firearms. The possession of the following privately owned weapons or devices is prohibited:

(1) Any knife having a switchblade or automatic blade.

(2) Brass knuckles or similar devices.

(3) Blackjacks, saps, nunchaku and similar devices. As exceptions, nunchucks may be possessed for bona fide educational instruction or competition in a recognized martial arts program and may be carried and transported directly to and from educational and competitive martial arts events.

(4) When carried on one's person in an unconcealed manner, knives with blades in excess of three inches in length except while engaged in authorized hunting, fishing, camping or other outdoor recreational activities, or when required by duty purposes.

(5) When carried on one's person in a concealed manner, knives with blades in excess of three inches, razors and ice picks.

(f) The charging of a usurious interest rate, defined as a rate exceeding thirty-six (36) percent per annum or three (3) percent per month, for the loan of money or for the extension of credit, is prohibited.

(g) Sexual intercourse or any indecent, lewd or lascivious act in any office, barracks, training area, duty location, parking lot, public recreation area or public place is prohibited.

(h) Relationships between service members of different rank or sex which involve or reasonably give the appearance of partiality, preferential treatment, the improper use of rank or position for any personal gain, or which can otherwise be reasonably expected to undermine discipline, authority or morale, are prohibited.

(i) Being present in any "off-limits" or "limited access" areas, except as authorized in Fort Jackson Regulation 190-3, is prohibited (See appendix A to this subpart).

(j) Use of a metal detector for other than official purposes is prohibited.

(k) When directed to do so by the Military Police, failure to relinquish possession or control to the Military Police of abandoned property found on the installation is prohibited.

(l) Scavenging in or removal of waste items or recyclable materials from dumpsters, garbage cans, outdoor trash receptacles, recycling collection points, or landfill areas is prohibited, except for official purposes. This part does not prohibit persons from collecting and disposing of scattered litter, including aluminum cans, from roadsides, parking lots and recreation areas.

(m) It is prohibited for military personnel to engage in outside employment of any nature, including ownership or operation of a private business, without the prior written approval of their commander. Soldiers reassigned or reattached from one Fort Jackson unit to another Fort Jackson unit must obtain approval for continued employment from the gaining commander within 30 days of reassignment.

(n) Except as authorized by the Installation Commander, Chief of Staff or a Major Subordinate Commander, the use of radios, stereos, tape players, compact disk players or any other similar electronic sound generating or amplification source, including equipment installed or located in motor vehicles, in a manner that can be heard more than 125 feet from the source, is prohibited. This paragraph does not apply to law enforcement or emergency vehicles, or safety warning devices.

(o) Loitering in any public place on Fort Jackson, to include all parking lots, is prohibited. Loitering is defined as remaining idle in essentially one location, spending time idly, loafing, or walking around without a purpose in a public place in such a manner as to create a disturbance or annoyance to the comfort of any person, create a danger of a breach of the peace, obstruct or interfere with any person lawfully in any public place, or obstruct or hinder the free passage of vehicles or pedestrians. Any person loitering as defined above in any public place may be ordered by a law enforcement officer to leave that place or the Fort Jackson military reservation.
