
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart M - Land Use Policy for Fort Lewis, Yakima Training Center, and Camp Bonneville
####### ยง 552.164 General.

(a) Military training. Use of the Fort Lewis, Yakima Training Center, and Camp Bonneville range complexes for military training is governed by FL Regs 350-30, 350-31, and 350-32. Scheduling is per FL Policy Statement 350-2. Military training always has priority.

(b) Hunting. Hunting, fishing, and trapping on the range complexes are governed by FL Reg 215-1 and the Yakima Training Center Hunting Letter of Intent (LOI).

(c) Fund raising. Fund raising events for non-profit private organizations not affiliated with the Army or Fort Lewis per AR 210-1 require a Corps of Engineers Real Estate Agreement. Requests for fund-raisers by such non-profit organizations, to be conducted on the Fort Lewis range complex, will be sent to the Director of Plans, Training, and Mobilization (DPTM) Range Division of preparation of a DPTM staffing document. The document will be circulated for comment to Director of Personnel and Community Activities (DPCA), Staff Judge Advocate (SJA), Public Affairs Officer (PAO), and Director of Engineering and Housing (DEH). If the event can be supported, DPTM will advise the organization to contact the Director of Engineering and Housing Real Property Branch. Requests for such activities at Yakima Training Center will be sent to the Yakima Training Center Commander for review and processing. For Camp Bonneville, the entry point is the Vancouver Barracks Commander. Corps of Engineers Real Estate Agreements require up to 8 months to process, and includes payment of a $375.00 minimum administrative fee, with actual costs determined on a case by case basis. Requests for fundraisers in the cantonment area by private organizations are processed per AR 210-1 by the Director of Personnel and Community Activities (DPCA).

(d) Commercial use. Individuals or organizations using the range complex for profit-generating activities must possess a Corps of Engineers Real Estate Agreement. As stated above, these agreements require up to 8 months to process and include a minimum administrative fee of $375.00, with actual costs determined on a case by case basis. Entry point for these agreements is the DEH Real Property Branch. Profit-generating activities include collection of fees for services performed on the range complex, or selling materials collected from the range complex. Real Estate Agreement holders must check into the range complex daily by calling or coming to Area Access.

(e) Installation service and maintenance. Department of Defense (DoD) and contractor personnel on official business are authorized on the range complex per appendix C to this subpart. Access to hazard areas for such personnel is governed by the appropriate Installation Range Regulations.

(f) Non-DoD personnel in transit. Individuals in transit across Fort Lewis on State or County maintained roads, or roads designated for public access by the Installation Commander, require no special permits. See appendix B to this subpart. This measure does not apply at Yakima Training Center or Camp Bonneville.

(g) Alcoholic Beverages. No alcoholic beverages may be consumed on the range complexes except as authorized per FL Reg 210-1.

(h) Failure to comply. Persons entering the Fort Lewis, Yakima Training Center, or Camp Bonneville range complex without permit or scheduling, which constitute the consent of the Commanding Officer or his designated representative, are in violation of this regulation and trespassing on a controlled access Federal Reservation. Offenders may be cited by Military Police and may be subjected to administrative action or punishment under either the Uniform Code of Military Justice UCMJ) or Title 18 US Code Section 1382, or Title 50 U.S. Code Section 797, as appropriate to each individual's status. Administrative action may include suspension or loss of recreational privileges, or permanent expulsion from the Military Reservations.
