
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart M - Land Use Policy for Fort Lewis, Yakima Training Center, and Camp Bonneville
####### ยง 552.165 Responsibilities.

(a) Commander, Yakima Training Center:

(1) Schedule the Yakima Training Center range complex per FL Reg 350-31 and FL PS 350-2.

(2) Process requests for non-military, non-commercial use per ยง 552.166.

(b) Commander, Vancouver Barracks:

(1) Schedule the Camp Bonneville range complex per FL Reg 350-32 and FL PS 350-2.

(2) Process requests for non-military, non-commercial use per Paragraph 6c.

(c) Fort Lewis DPTM.

(1) Schedule the Fort Lewis range complex per FL Reg 350-30 and FL PS 350-2, including allocation of and for recreational use.

(2) Operate the Fort Lewis Area Access Section.

(3) Respond to DEH coordination on timber sales and other commercial use of the range complex.

(d) Law Enforcement Agency (LEC). Provide law enforcement and game warden patrols on the range complexes.

(e) Director of Engineering and Housing (DEH).

(1) Coordinate with DPTM and the appropriate Sub-Installation Commander on Real Estate Agreements, timber sales, wildlife management, construction, forest management, Installation Training Area Management (ITAM), and other DEH or Corps of Engineers managed actions occurring on the range complex

(2) Ensure that Real Estate Agreement holders are required to notify Fort Lewis Area Access, YTC DPCA, or Camp Bonneville Range Control, as appropriate, of range complex entry.

(f) DPCA. With DEH, manage Installation hunting, fishing, and trapping programs. Manage picnic and recreation sites located in the Fort Lewis range complex, as listed in appendix A to this part. Advise DPTM on private organizations requesting use of the Fort Lewis range complex for fundraisers.

(g) Public Affairs Office (PAO).

(1) Act as interface to resolve community relations issues related to land use.

(2) Coordinate equipment and special assistance requests per ยง 552.165, and advise DPTM or the appropriate Sub-Installation Commander if permit requirements have been waived by the Command Group for a particular event or activity.

(3) Inform DPTM or the appropriate Sub-Installation Commander of public response to policy execution.
