
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 552 - REGULATIONS AFFECTING MILITARY RESERVATIONS
###### Subpart P - Protests, Picketing, and Other Similar Demonstrations on the Installation of Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland
####### ยง 552.214 Procedures.

(a) Any person or persons desiring to protest, picket, or engage in any other similar demonstrations on Aberdeen Proving Ground must submit a written request to the Commander, U.S. Army Garrison, Aberdeen Proving Ground, ATTN: STEAP-CO, 2201 Aberdeen Boulevard, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland 21005-5001. The request must be received at least 30 calendar days prior to the demonstration, and it must include the following:

(1) Name, address, and telephone number of the sponsoring person or organization. (If it is an organization, include the name of the point of contact.)

(2) Purpose of the event.

(3) Number of personnel expected to attend.

(4) Proposed date, time, location and duration of the event.

(5) Proposed means of transportation to and from APG.

(6) Proposed means of providing security, sanitary services and related ancillary services to the participants.

(b) Based on the Commander's concerns for discipline, mission accomplishment, protection of property, and the safeguarding of the health, morale, and welfare of the APG community, the Commander will determine whether to grant the request and, if granted, any limitations as to where and when it will take place.
