
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Discovery.

(10)(i) Full discovery shall be available, with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rules 26-37, 28 U.S.C. appendix, serving as a guide to parties to a due process hearing or conducted in accordance with this part.

(ii) If voluntary discovery cannot be accomplished, a party seeking discovery may file a motion with the hearing officer to accomplish discovery. The hearing officer shall grant an order to accomplish discovery upon a showing that the document or information sought is relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. An order granting discovery, or compelling testimony or the production of evidence shall be enforceable by all reasonable means within the authority of the hearing officer, to include the exclusion of testimony or witnesses, adverse inferences, and dismissal or summary judgment.

(iii) Records compiled or created in the regular course of business, which have been provided to the opposing party at least 5 business days prior to the hearing, may be received and considered by the hearing officer without authenticating witnesses.

(iv) A copy of the written or electronic transcription of a deposition taken by a Military Department or DoDEA shall be made available by the Military Department or DoDEA without charge to the opposing party.
