
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Witnesses and documentary evidence.

(13)(i) At least 5 business days prior to a hearing, the parties shall exchange lists of all documents and materials that each party intends to use at the hearing, including all evaluations and reports. Each party also shall disclose the names of all witnesses it intends to call at a hearing along with a proffer of the anticipated testimony of each witness.

(ii) At least 10 business days prior to a hearing, each party must provide the name, title, description of professional qualifications, and summary of proposed testimony of any expert witness it intends to call at the hearing.

(iii) Failure to disclose documents, materials, or witnesses may result in the hearing officer barring their introduction at the hearing.

(iv) Parties must limit evidence to the issues pleaded, except by order of the hearing officer or with the consent of the parties.

(v) The rules of evidence shall be relaxed to permit the development of a full evidentiary record with the Federal Rules of Evidence, 28 U.S.C. appendix, serving as guide.

(vi) All witnesses testifying at the hearing shall be advised by the hearing officer that under 18 U.S.C. 1001, it is a criminal offense to knowingly and willfully make a materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation to a department or agency of the U.S. Government as to any matter within the jurisdiction of that department or agency, and may result in a fine or imprisonment.

(vii) A party calling a witness shall bear the witness' travel and incidental expenses associated with testifying at the hearing. The DoDEA school system or the Military Department concerned shall pay such expenses if a witness is called by the hearing officer.

(viii) The parties shall have the right to cross-examine witnesses testifying at the hearing.

(ix) The hearing officer may issue an order compelling a party to make a specific witness employed by or under control of the party available for testimony at the party's expense or to submit specific documentary or physical evidence for inspection by the hearing officer or for submission into the record on motion of either party or on the hearing officer's own motion.

(x) When the hearing officer determines that a party has failed to obey an order to make a specific witness available for testimony or to submit specific documentary or physical evidence in accordance with the hearing officer's order, and that such failure is in knowing and willful disregard of the order, the hearing officer shall so certify as a part of the written record in the case and may order appropriate sanctions.
