
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Hearing officer's written decision.

(15)(i) The hearing officer shall make written findings of fact and conclusions of law and shall set forth both in a written decision addressing the issues raised in the due process complaint, the resolution of those issues, and the rationale for the resolution.

(ii) The hearing officer's decision of the case shall be based on the record, which shall include the petition, the answer, the transcript of the hearing, exhibits admitted into evidence, pleadings or correspondence properly filed and served on all parties, and such other matters as the hearing officer may include in the record, if such matter is made available to all parties before the record is closed.

(iii) The hearing officer shall file the written decision with the Director, DOHA, and additionally provide the Director, DOHA with a copy of that decision from which all personally identifiable information has been redacted.

(iv) The Director, DOHA, shall forward to parents and to the DoDEA or the EDIS concerned, copies, unredacted and with all personally identifiable information redacted, of the hearing officer's decision.

(v) The decision of the hearing officer shall become final unless a timely notice of appeal is filed in accordance with paragraph (d)(17) of this section.

(vi) The DoDEA or the EDIS concerned shall implement the decision as soon as practicable after it becomes final.
