
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 553 - ARMY CEMETERIES
###### Subpart A-Army National Military Cemeteries
####### ยง 553.13 Eligibility for inurnment in Arlington National Cemetery Columbarium.
######## Primarily eligible persons.

(a)The following are primarily eligible persons for purposes of inurnment:

(1) Any person eligible for interment in Arlington National Cemetery, as provided for in ยง 553.12(a).

(2) Any veteran who served on active duty other than active duty for training.

(3) Any member of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces who dies while:

(i) On active duty for training or performing full-time duty under title 32, United States Code;

(ii) Performing authorized travel to or from such active duty for training or full-time duty;

(iii) On authorized inactive-duty training, including training performed as a member of the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air National Guard of the United States; or

(iv) Hospitalized or receiving treatment at the expense of the Government for an injury or disease incurred or contracted while on such active duty for training or full-time duty, traveling to or from such active duty for training or full-time duty, or on inactive-duty training.

(4) Any member of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps of the United States, Army, Navy, or Air Force, whose death occurs while:

(i) Attending an authorized training camp or cruise;

(ii) Performing authorized travel to or from that camp or cruise; or

(iii) Hospitalized or receiving treatment at the expense of the Government for injury or disease incurred or contracted while attending such camp or cruise or while traveling to or from such camp or cruise.

(5) Any citizen of the United States who, during any war in which the United States has been or may hereafter be engaged, served in the armed forces of any government allied with the United States during that war, whose last service ended honorably by death or otherwise, and who was a citizen of the United States at the time of entry into that service and at the time of death.

(6) Commissioned officers, United States Coast and Geodetic Survey (now National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) who die during or subsequent to the service specified in the following categories and whose last service terminated honorably:

(i) Assignment to areas of immediate military hazard.

(ii) Served in the Philippine Islands on December 7, 1941.

(iii) Transferred to the Department of the Army or the Department of the Navy under certain statutes.

(7) Any commissioned officer of the United States Public Health Service who served on full-time duty on or after July 29, 1945, if the service falls within the meaning of active duty for training as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(22) or inactive duty training as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(23) and whose death resulted from a disease or injury incurred or aggravated in line of duty. Also, any commissioned officer of the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service who performed active service prior to July 29, 1945 in time of war; on detail for duty with the Armed Forces; or while the service was part of the military forces of the United States pursuant to Executive order of the President.

(8) Any Active Duty Designee as defined in this part.
