
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### specialedcomplaint@osdgc.osd.mil,

(iii) The non-appealing party shall file any reply within 20 business days of receiving the appealing party's statement of issues and arguments on appeal with the Chairperson, DOHA Appeal Board by mail to P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, Virginia 22203, by fax to 703-696-1831, by email toor by hand delivery to the office of the Chairperson, DOHA Appeal Board if approval from the Chairperson, DOHA Appeal Board is obtained in advance of filing The non-appealing party shall deliver a copy of the reply to the appealing party by mail.

(iv) Appeal filings with DOHA are complete upon transmittal. It is the burden of the appealing party to provide timely transmittal to and receipt by DOHA.

(v) The DOHA Appeal Board, shall issue a decision on all parties' appeals within 45 business days of receipt of the matter.

(vi) The determination of the DOHA Appeal Board shall be a final administrative decision and shall be in written form. It shall address the issues presented and set forth a rationale for the decision reached. A determination denying the appeal of a parent in whole or in part shall state that the parent has the right, in accordance with the IDEA, to bring a civil action on the matters in dispute in a district court of the United States of competent jurisdiction without regard to the amount in controversy.

(vii) No provision of this part or other DoD guidance may be construed as conferring a further right of administrative review. A party must exhaust all administrative remedies afforded by this section before seeking judicial review of a determination.
