
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 553 - ARMY CEMETERIES
###### Subpart B - Army Post Cemeteries
####### ยง 553.44 Eligibility for interment and inurnment in the West Point Post Cemetery.
######## Primarily eligible persons for interment or inurnment.

(a)The following are primarily eligible persons for purposes of interment or inurnment:

(1) A graduate of the USMA, provided the individual was a U.S. citizen, both as a cadet and at the time of death, and whose military service fulfilled one of the following criteria.

(i) The graduate's service in the Armed Forces of the United States, if any, terminated honorably.

(ii) The graduate's service in wartime in the Armed Forces of a nation that was allied with the United States during the war terminated honorably.

(2) Members of the Armed Forces of the United States, including USMA cadets, who were on active duty at the USMA at time of death and their derivatively eligible person dependents who may have died while the service member was on active duty at the USMA.

(3) Members of the Armed Forces of the United States who were on active duty at the USMA at time of retirement.

(4) Members of the Armed Forces of the United States whose last active duty station prior to retirement for physical disability was the USMA. However, personnel (not otherwise eligible) who are transferred to the Medical Holding Detachment, Keller Army Hospital, for medical boarding or medical disability retirement are not, regardless of length of time, eligible for interment or inurnment in the West Point Cemetery or Columbarium.

(5) Officers appointed as Professors, USMA.
