
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 553 - ARMY CEMETERIES
###### Subpart B - Army Post Cemeteries
####### ยง 553.46 Ineligibility for interment, inurnment or memorialization in an Army Post Cemetery.
######## e.g.,

(b) Except for the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks Cemetery in ยง 553.45, a person whose last period of service was not characterized as an honorable discharge (a separation or discharge under general but honorable conditions, other than honorable conditions, a bad conduct discharge, a dishonorable discharge, or a dismissal), regardless of whether the person:

(1) Received any other veterans' benefits; or

(2) Was treated at a Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or died in such a hospital.

(c) A person who has volunteered for service with the U.S. Armed Forces, but has not yet entered on active duty.

(d) A former spouse whose marriage to the primarily eligible person ended in divorce.

(e) A spouse who predeceases the primarily eligible person and is interred or inurned in a location other than an Army Cemetery, and the primarily eligible person remarries.

(f) A divorced spouse of a primarily eligible person or the service-connected parent when the divorced spouse has a child interred or inurned in an Army Cemetery under the child's derivative eligibility.

(g) Otherwise derivatively eligible persons, such as a spouse or minor child, if the primarily eligible person was not or will not be interred or inurned at an Army Cemetery.

(h) A person convicted in a Federal court or by a court-martial of any offense involving subversive activity or an offense described in 18 U.S.C. 1751 (except for military prisoners at the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks Cemetery).
