
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter D - Military Reservations and National Cemeteries
##### PART 555 - CORPS OF ENGINEERS, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, LABORATORY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND TESTS, WORK FOR OTHERS
###### Appendix A to Part 555 - Director of Defense Research and Engineering
####### Criteria for Conduct of Work

-It is the view of the Consortium that the civil sector should rely on the private enterprise system to provide those services which are reasonably and expeditiously available through ordinary business channels. The laboratories shall attempt to provide a supplemental resource that is not technically available or that is obtainable only at an excessive cost. Such services shall not supplant existing private or industrial resources but are offered to enable other Federal agencies, State and local governments to avoid unnecessary duplication of special service functions.

The following criteria shall apply for the conduct of work undertaken in the technology transfer program:

- In order for work to be undertaken for any government organization each of the following criteria must be satisfied:

a. Laboratory staff will not increase as a result of the additional work.

b. Laboratory facilities will not be added for non-DOD work.

c. Proposed work should relate to a laboratory's area of particular expertise and the laboratory should be a significant resource in the particular subject area.

d. A determination should be made that the laboratory's background, experience and facilities are such that private industry could not perform the work except at a significantly increased cost.

- The major emphasis of the Technology Transfer Consortium should be directed to:

a. The transfer or adaptation of existing technology, either directly, or after being subjected to adaptive engineering.

b. The preparation of documentation and technical assistance in those activities unique to the mission of the DOD laborabories.

- Work will be performed for private industry only on an exception basis, such as when the laboratory possesses unique facilities that are required and which are not available in the private sector.

- Description of the work to be accomplished and the funds to be transferred will normally be specified in a formal interagency agreement.

- All costs shall be recovered from the receiving government organization, including realistic overhead costs, except that cooperative developments on a shared cost basis are encouraged where there is a distinct military application.

- Laboratory production of hardware shall normally be limited to prototypes or test units required to prove feasibility.

- Adaptive engineering shall not be performed on technological innovations for which a patent application has been made by a private industrial firm unless permission is received in writing from that firm. Technical, consulting, and support services will not normally be furnished another agency on a continuing basis.

- Work in the form of analytic services shall not normally be undertaken in areas where comparable expertise exists in competitive industry. An exception to this provision is acceptable in areas of problem definition where existing Defense technology offers a unique potential solution.
