
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Responsibilities.

(2)The responsibilities of the DoD-CC include:

(i) Implementation of a comprehensive, multidisciplinary program of EIS for infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families.

(ii) Provision of a FAPE, including special education and related services, for children with disabilities who are enrolled full-time in the DoDEA school system, as specified in their IEP.

(iii) Designation of a subcommittee on compliance to:

(A) Advise and assist the USD(P&R) in the performance of his or her responsibilities.

(B) At the direction of the USD(P&R), advise and assist the Military Departments and DoDEA in the coordination of services among providers of early intervention, special education, and related services.

(C) Monitor compliance in the provision of EIS for infants and toddlers and special education and related services for children ages 3 to 21, inclusive.

(D) Identify common concerns, facilitate coordination of effort, and forward issues requiring resolution to the USD(P&R).

(E) Assist in the coordination of assignments of sponsors who have children with disabilities who are or who may be eligible for special education and related services through DoDEA or EIS through the Military Departments.

(F) Perform other duties as assigned by the USD(P&R), including oversight for monitoring the delivery of services consistent with the IDEA and this part.
