
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Monitoring,Program monitoring and oversight.

(f)-(1)(i) The USD(P&R) shall monitor the implementation of the provisions of the IDEA and this part in the programs operated by the Department of Defense. The USD(P&R) will carry out his or her responsibilities under this section primarily through the DoD-CC.

(ii) The primary focus of monitoring shall be on:

(A) Improving educational results and functional outcomes for all children with disabilities.

(B) Ensuring the DoD programs meet the requirements of the IDEA and this part.

(iii) Monitoring shall include the following priority areas and any additional priority areas identified by the USD(P&R):

(A) Provision of a FAPE in the LRE and the delivery of early intervention services.

(B) Child-find.

(C) Program management.

(D) The use of dispute resolution including administrative complaints, due process and the mandatory resolution process, and voluntary mediation.

(E) A system of transition services.

(iv) The USD(P&R) shall develop quantifiable indicators in each of the priority areas and such qualitative indicators necessary to adequately measure performance.

(v) DoDEA and the Military Departments shall establish procedures for monitoring special services and reviewing program compliance in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(vi) By January 1 of each calendar year, the DoD-CC shall identify any additional information required to support compliance activities that will be included in the next annual compliance report to be submitted no later than September 30 of that year. The results of monitoring program areas described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section shall be reported in a manner that does not result in the disclosure of data identifiable to individual children.
