
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter E - Organized Reserves
##### PART 564 - NATIONAL GUARD REGULATIONS
###### Claims for Damages Involving the National Guard and Air National Guard
####### ยง 564.58 Determination of amount allowable.

(a) The maximum amount which may be allowed is the value of the property immediately prior to the accident or incident. Subject to the foregoing, the amount allowable is the cost, incurred or estimated to be incurred, of replacing the property, or of restoring it to the condition in which it was immediately prior to the accident or incident. However, if as the result of the repairs effected, the value of the property is appreciably enhanced, a sum equal to the increase in value will be deducted from the cost of restoring the property in determining the amount allowed. Conversely, if after the repairs have been effected, the value of the property is appreciably less than that prior to the accident or incident, the difference in value will be added to the cost of repairs in determining the amount allowed. However, no award in excess of the amount claimed may be made.

(b) In determining the amount allowable for repairs, the permanency of parts replaced will be considered and deductions made for depreciation as appropriated. Thus, an automobile tire is not expected to last through the life of a vehicle so that when a tire three-fourths worn is replaced with a new tire, the amount allowable is one-fourth of the cost of the new tire. The same principle applies to batteries and other items of equipment or accessories during relatively short wearout periods. However, no allowance for depreciation is made in replacing parts, such as fenders, bumpers, radiators, which normally would last through the life of the vehicle.

(c) Deprivation of use of property (including motor vehicles) is allowable as an item of damages, but only in those cases where the claimant has sustained legally provable damages. Towing charges are also allowable items of damage. However, interest, cost of preparation of claim and of securing supporting evidence, inconvenience, and similar items are not property allowable items of damage.
