
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 621 - LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
###### ยง 621.2 Sales of ordnance property to individuals, non-Federal government agencies, institutions, and organizations.
####### Condition of sale.

(c)Provisions apply to sales under this section, as follows:

(1) Sales will be made without expense to the Government.

(i) All costs incident to sales (including packing, crating, handling, etc.) will be paid in advance by the purchaser.

(ii) All costs incident to shipment (transportation, parcel post charges, etc.) will also be paid by the customer.

(iii) Payment for items and charges incident to sale will be made only by cashier's check, certified check, bank money order, or postal money order made payable to the Treasurer of the United States.

(iv) For other than items of ammunition and ammunition components, cash will be acceptable when consignee pickup is authorized or purchase is made in person.

(2) All financial transactions will be accomplished in accordance with applicable Department of the Army directives and regulations. Moneys collected for cost of items, as well as packing, crating, and handling, will be deposited as an appropriate reimbursement as prescribed in applicable regulations.

(3) Generally, all sales are final and, normally, the US Government assumes no obligation or responsibility for repair, replacement, or exchange, except as provided in AR 920-20. Purchasers will be so advised prior to making the sale. All weapons sold, however, will be safe for firing.

(4) Weapons sold at standard price will be supplied with equipment. Weapons sold at less than standard price will be supplied less equipment.

(5) Sales of specific items may be suspended at any time by the direction of CDR, ARRCOM.
