
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 621 - LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
###### ยง 621.2 Sales of ordnance property to individuals, non-Federal government agencies, institutions, and organizations.
####### Purchasing procedure.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, all requests originating within CONUS for the purchase of small arms weapons, repair parts, cleaning, preserving, and target material will be submitted to the Commander, ARRCOM, Rock Island, IL 61201.

(i) Upon approval, these items will be shipped from Army depots stocking such material, based upon availability of material. Customers will be furnished instructions for submission of remittance.

(ii) Upon receipt of proper remittance from eligible customers ARRCOM will issue the necessary documents directing shipment from an Army depot where the items are available.

(2) In implementing the subchapter, oversea commands should designate installations within the oversea command to which requests for purchase of ammunition and related material will be directed.

(3) Depots shipping weapons to individuals, Director of Civilian Marksmanship (DCM) affiliated rifle and pistol "clubs", museums, veterans organizations, and other US Government agencies will annotate shipping documents with the serial number of all the weapons they ship. Firearms shipped will be reported to Commander, ARRCOM, ATTN: DR SAR-MMD-D, Rock Island, IL 61202, using DA Form 3535 (Weapons Sales Record), DA Form 3535 may be obtained from Commander, Letterkenny Army Depot, ATTN: DRXLE-ATD, Chambersburg, PA 17201.

(i) The transportation officer will ascertain estimated transportation costs, to include DA transportation security measures (costs) for shipment to destination. Such information will be transmitted by letter to consignee with request for acknowledgement that shipment will be accepted based on costs submitted.

(ii) Shipment will not be made unless consignee agrees to accept shipments. Refusal to accept shipment shall be reported to ARRCOM.

(4) CDR, ARRCOM is responsible for maintaining a record by serial number of all weapons reported by depot in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section. He will establish procedures to screen purchase requests to insure compliance with any limitations established by this section.
