
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 621 - LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
###### ยง 621.4 Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.
####### Procedure for loan of equipment and providing of transportation and other services to the Boy Scouts of America for world and national jamborees. Preliminary actions.

(j)(1) In accordance with the provisions of Pub. L. 92-249, H.R. 11738, 10 March 1972, and Secretary of Defense Memo of 17 May 1972, Subject: Loan of Equipment and Providing of Transportation and Other Services to the Boy Scouts of America for Boy Scout Jamborees; Memo of 23 January 1973, Subject: Military Transportation Support for Boy Scout Jamborees; and Memo of 19 August 1974, Subject: Military Transportation Support for Boy Scout Jamborees, the DOD is authorized to lend certain items and provide transportation and certain other services to such Jamborees. Prior to the loan of property and providing transportation and other services, an appropriate agreement will be executed between the United States of America and the activity to be supported. A bond (fig. 7-6), in an amount specified by the Commander, DARCOM, based on statute taken by the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, Major Army Command (MACOM), and held until termination of the encampment and final settelment is made for each Jamboree.

(2) The Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM designated, on behalf of the Commander, DARCOM, representing the Secretary of Defense will enter into legal arrangements with the Boy Scouts of America for the loan of equipment and the providing of transportation and certain other services for Boy Scouts World and National Jamborees. National Jamborees include Jamborees conducted by and within the United States and also those conducted by and within foreign nations.

(3) The Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM, will appoint a Property Book Officer who will maintain separate stock records in order to provide for a single final billing to the supported activity (Boy Scouts of America) for items consumed, lost, damaged or destroyed. The Department of the Army will not be billed for items obtained from other than Army sources, except medical supply losses. Bills for medical supply losses will be submitted to the US Army Area Surgeon for payment. He will establish liaison with the activity to be supported. The property book account will be established in accordance with section II, chapter 2, AR 710-2.

(4) The Commander-in-Chief, MACOM, will task the Army Area Surgeon for Medical Supply Support to the Jamborees. Each Surgeon designated should appoint an accountable officer and furnish the name, location, and routing identifier of a project office wherein medical supply problems can be resolved.

(5) The Property Book Officer is authorized direct communication with the source of supply, other military department liaison personnel and DARCOM ICP's to resolve routine supply problems.
