
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 621 - LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
###### ยง 621.4 Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.
####### Preparing bills of material.

(k)(1) The activity (BSA) will submit a list of equipment and supplies desired to the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM. This list will be edited during and subsequent to preliminary conferences with representatives of the activity and furnished to Commander, DARCOM, ATTN: DRCMM-SP.

(2) HQ, DARCOM will convert the informal list to a tentative Bill of Material and will furnish the respective Commodity Command that part of the Bill of Material for their items of logistical responsibility. A suggested format for the Bill of Material is included as figure 7-1. Local reproduction is authorized. Copies of the entire tentative Bill of Material will also be furnished to each of the military departments authorized to participate in the support of the encampments. The Bill of Material forwarded to the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM will be screened to determine inhouse availability prior to placing requisitions on CONUS supply points.

(3) At such time as item availability information is on hand and the sources to be used are determined (paragraph (m) of this section, a Bill of Material (figure 7-1) will be prepared by HQ, DARCOM, and forwarded to the Commander-in-chief/Commander, MACOM.

(4) The Bill of Material will list, by commodity command (military department), all items desired, identified by National Stock Number (NSN) description, quantity desired and required delivery date. The NSN will provide identification of the items required. Items will be identified by the Property Book Officer to the responsible commodity command or military department as indicated below:
