
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 621 - LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
###### ยง 621.4 Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.
####### Locating and obtaining equipment and supplies.

(m)(1) The respective commodity commands (military departments) will screen the tentative Bill of Material (paragraph (k)(2) of this section) and determine availability and source of supply identified by Routing Identifier Code. They will advise HQ, DARCOM, ATTN: DRCMM-SP of availability, appropriate substitute items when the requested items are not available in sufficient quantity, and the source of supply for requisitioning purposes.

(2) Concurrently, the Bill of Material will be screened within the MACOM to determine those items that can be obtained from assets available in the command.

(3) The Property Book Officer will requisition equipment and supplies from the source of supply as indicated by Commander, DARCOM in accordance with AR 725-50 or other separately furnished instructions. The requisition number, quantity requisitioned, stock number and source of supply will be entered in the Property Transaction Record. Requisitions will cite the appropriate project code assigned and appropriate activity address code on all requisitions submitted. Project codes will be assigned by Commander, Logistic Systems Support Activity, ATTN: DRXLS-LCC, Chambersburg, PA, 17201 and distributed by message to all interested addressees.

(4) Loan of General Services Administration (GSA) General Supply Fund Material-The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, authorizes the Administrator, GSA to loan GSA General Supply Fund Material to the Department of Defense and other federal agencies. Loan shall be made to the extent that items are readily available and that such loans will not jeopardize the GSA stock inventory. The loan of GSA General Supply Fund Material shall normally be limited to 90 Calendar days. Requisitions for GSA material should be submitted to the nearest GSA Regional Office by the CINC/CDR MACOM.

(5) Formal accountability for all items shipped to the site of the activity will be retained by the appropriate accountable activity. Property and financial accounting will be in accordance with respective military department regulations governing loans.

(6) The shipping depot or other source will furnish a copy of the shipping document to the respective commodity command (military department) where the quantity charged, date shipped, condition of the property and total value will be posted to the Property Transaction Record.

(7) Upon receipt of the advance copy of the shipping document, the commodity command (military department) will post information to his Transaction Record, by source as in paragraph (l)(1) of this section.

(8) When the shipment is received, the Property Book Officer will inspect the property. A narrative statement of condition will be prepared if condition of the property is other than that indicated on the shipping document and referenced to the condition entry on the Property Transaction Record. The source of supply, as appropriate, will be immediately notified of overages or shortages and verified in condition, as provided in chapter 8, AR 735-11. The Property Book Officer will enter on the shipping document the quantity actually received when it differs from quantity shown as shipped and will post the quantities received to the property book record.

(9) Discrepancies between the quantity shipped by the depot and that received by the Property Book Officer and variance in condition will be reconciled as rapidly as possible and appropriate records will be brought into agreement. When shortage or damage is not attributable to the carrier, the Property Book Officer will immediately contact the responsible source of supply, furnishing the stock number and document number involved, together with an explanation of the discrepancy. Reconciliation is particularly important in order to ensure a common point of departure in determining charges to be assessed upon termination of the activity. Replacement shipments, when required, will be covered by appropriate shipping documents.

(10) Special Instructions for Defense Logistics Agency, Clothing and Textile Items. (See DSAR 4140.27/AR 700-49).
