
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 621 - LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
###### ยง 621.4 Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.
####### Transportation.

(n)(1) Transportation of equipment and supplies-The responsibility of coordinating movement of equipment and supplies placed on loan to the Boy Scouts of America during National and World Jamborees is delegated to the Commander, US Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, ATTN: DRCMM-ST.

(2) All requisitions for items in question, will cite the appropriate project code and will be shipped by commercial bill of lading on a collect basis to all National Jamborees and World Jamborees held in the United States.

(3) Shipments to Boy Scout contingents at World Jamborees in foreign countries will be by Government bills of lading, unless otherwise specified by the Boy Scouts of America.

(4) All shipments directed to Boy Scout Jamborees will be routed by the most feasible means as determined by the shipper. Shipments will be consolidated to the maximum extent possible to assure the lowest charges available to the Boy Scouts of America.

(5) Separate shipping instructions will be provided for each Jamboree to assure that correct consignee and railhead addresses are furnished.

(6) Movement of Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials living in the United States of America to a Jamboree within the United States of America or to a Jamboree in an oversea area shall be the responsibility of the Boy Scouts of America or the individuals concerned.

(7) No authority exists under Pub. L. 92-249 for the movement of Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials via military capabilities other than those of the Military Airlift Command or the Military Sealift Command.
