
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 621 - LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
###### ยง 621.4 Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.
####### Transportation of oversea based scouts, scouters, and other authorized personnel by military airlift to national or international jamborees.

(p)(1) Space required reimbursable transportation by Military Airlift Command (MAC) airlift over established MAC channels is authorized from points outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) to aerial ports within CONUS, or to other oversea locations and return. Such transportation will be provided only to the extent that it does not interfere with the requirements of military operations, and only to those Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials residing overseas and certified by the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) as representing the BSA at the Jamboree. Certification by the BSA will be in the form of a letter identifying each such individual as their authorized representative at the Jamboree. This letter of authorization must be presented to the sponsoring overseas command.

(2) Boy Scouts, Scouters, officials and their equipment will be moved after all space-required traffic, but before any space-available traffic.

(3) Each passenger is authorized the normal accompanying free baggage allowance of 66 pounds while traveling on MAC aircraft. It is not contemplated that any excess baggage allowance will be authorized.

(4) Transportation of Boy Scouts, Scouters, officials, and their equipment provided by MAC controlled aircraft will be reimbursed at the common user tariff rates assessed U.S. Government Traffic, as contained in AFR 76-11.

(5) On the basis of letters of authorization issued by the BSA, the BSA will monitor services provided by the Department of Defense. One copy of each BSA letter of authorization will be forwarded to the Commander, US Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, ATTN: DRCMM-SP, 5001 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22333, for planning purposes. This letter of authorization should specify whether one way or round trip transportation is requested.

(6) DACROM responsibilities include the following:

(i) Compiling a passenger forecast to be submitted to MAC in accordance with AR 59-8/OPNAVINST 4630.18C/AFR 76-38/MCO 4630.6B.

(ii) Providing Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC) an information copy of the passenger forecast.

(iii) Submitting all passenger requirements for one way and round trip transportation originating overseas to the appropriate overseas command.

(7) The responsibilities of the sponsoring overseas command include:

(i) Verifying that Scout passengers are officially authorized representatives of BSA in accordance with paragraph (p)(1) of this section.

(ii) Making all necessary passenger reservations with MAC, for transportation originating overseas, in accordance with AR 55-6/AFR 76-5/OPNAVINST 4630.23/MCO P4630.11. The oversea command will submit CONUS outbound return passenger requirements to Commander, Military Traffic Management Command, ATTN: MTMC-PTO-P, Washington, DC 20315.

(iii) Issuing each passenger a MAC Transportation Authorization (DD Form 1482) for transportation from the overseas location and return, when round trip transportation has been requested. The customer identification code, item (7) of the DD Form 1482, should be designated-JBWJ-which was approved by MAC as the permanent CIC for direct billing purposes to HQ, Boy Scouts of America, North Brunswick, New Jersey, 08902.

(iv) Ensuring that each Scout passenger has a completed DD Form 1381, signed by a parent, guardian or other legally responsible individual.

(v) Evaluating the use and necessity of military airlift within or between overseas locations. This evaluation will include such factors as reasonable travel time, number of connections required, and assurance of Scout group integrity. Surface transportation will normally be used for travel within an overseas area.

(8) The responsibilities of the MTMC include:

(i) Evaluating the return outbound passenger requirements and making the necessary transportation arrangements so as to maintain Scout group integrity at all times.

(ii) Assisting the BSA in completing required documentation and insuring that passengers are ready prior to the return flight.

(iii) Pub. L. 92-249 does not provide authorization for the use of the Department of Defense transportation by Scouts, Scouters, and Officials of foreign nations. All requests to transport such persons should be forwarded through the unified command channels to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs). However, DOD does not contemplate authorization for the use of MAC aircraft for other than U.S. Scouts, Scouters, and Officials.

(iv) Use of military helicopters in support of medical evacuation, VIP, press and photo-services-The Director of Army Aviation, the Department of the Army Staff Judge Advocate, and the Comptroller of the Army have furnished the general opinion that Pub. L. 92-249 authorizes the use of Military helicopters in support of the above described services to the extent they are reasonably available and permits the use of appropriated funds.
