
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.2 Loan policies.
####### Loan and approval policy,Basic policies.

(a)-(1)(i) Materiel is not loaned to non-DOD activities as a routine procedure. However, materiel in the Army inventory is available for loan for special purposes if approved. Approving authorities are listed in table 2-1; their addresses are in appendix B.

(ii) Loans will be approved or disapproved based on the purpose, duration of the loan, and consideration of the following factors which can take precedence over any loan.

(A) Military requirements and priorities.

(B) Continuity of military operations, troop survival, and the rehabilitation of essential military bases.

(C) Stocks and programed Army requirements. This includes prepositioned mobilization reserve stocks.

(D) Type classification with pending changes.

(E) Minimum diversion of Army stocks.

(F) The adequacy of the borrower's resources. Requesters will be encouraged to use their own resources.

(iii) Loan requests from civilian authorities or activities will normally enter Army channels at the installation or MACOM levels. If on-post or off-post units receive loan requests, they will refer them to unit's supporting installation commander at once. Emergency loan requests will be relayed by telephone or electrically transmitted message.

(iv) When routine handling of a loan request would result in loss of human life, grave bodily harm, or major destruction of property, and when the lack of communication facilities prevents use of normal procedures, loans otherwise permitted by this regulation can be made with local approval. However, normal policy should be followed to the extent possible. If procedural requirements cannot be fully complied with, they must be met as soon as possible after the loan is made.

(v) Army materiel loaned under this part will be delivered to borrower "as is, where is" available.

(vi) Stocks of the least serviceable condition which are still suitable for the loan's purpose will be used. Logistic control code "C" materiel will be loaned before logistic control code "B" materiel. Logistic control code "B" materiel will be loaned before logistic control code "A" materiel. (Ref chap 9, AR 708-1.)

(vii) Commanders of medical treatment facilities (MTF) are subject to all the requirements of this regulation, including the requirement for reimbursement. However, in accordance with AR 360-61 which implements DOD Instruction 5410.19,

(A) Emergency loans of medical supplies (drugs, vaccines, etc.) may not be made without reimbursement, but the loan may not exceed 30 days and the medical supplies must be replaced in kind by the borrowing agency or activity; and

(B) Emergency loans of medical equipment not to exceed 15 days may be made without reimbursement if it is the practice in the community for other hospitals to make such loans. Equipment loans which exceed 15 days must be approved, in writing, by the MACOM commander and are subject to all the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 2667, including reimbursement.

(viii) Army property loaned to non-DOD activities will not be further loaned without approval of the original approving authority.

(ix) There will be no procurement or redistribution of assets to offset the effects of loans. Material will not be set aside, earmarked, assembled, or stockpiled to be available for use related to loans.

(x) Army materiel may be recalled from the borrower at any time to meet Army requirements.

(xi) Stock record accounting and financial transactions for loans will conform with existing regulations.

(xii) Borrowers are responsible for the care, custody, and proper use of materiel borrowed. Except as stated in this regulation, reimbursement will be required for damage, destruction, loss, fair depreciation in value, and for any Army repair, care, transportation, preservation, and protection of loaned equipment.

(xiii) Care, renovation, and repair of borrowed materiel will conform with the loan agreement.

(xiv) As indicated below, borrowers must provide signed loan agreements, provide surety bonds, and vehicular insurance prior to receipt of materiel. Loan agreements and bonds will be prepared in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
