
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.1 General.
####### Statutory authorities.

(f)There are three basic federal laws which authorize the loan of Army property. There are also numerous specific statutes which authorize particular types of loans in limited situations. Unless there is a reason to use the specific statute, one of the basic statutes will be used.

(1) The following are the basic statutes:

(i) 10 U.S.C. 2571-Authority for loan of property within DOD.

(ii) 31 U.S.C. 686 (The Economy Act)-Authority for loans to other Federal departments and agencies.

(iii) 10 U.S.C. 2667 (The Leasing Statute)-Authority for loans/leases, including leases to activities outside the Federal Government.

(2) Following are some of the specific authorizing statutes:

(i) 10 U.S.C. 331-Federal aid for State governments as result of insurrection.

(ii) 10 U.S.C. 332-Use of militia and Armed Forces to enforce federal authority.

(iii) 10 U.S.C. 333-Use of militia or Armed Forces to suppress interference with state and federal law.

(iv) 10 U.S.C. 2541-Loan of equipment and barracks to national veterans organizations.

(v) 10 U.S.C. 2542-Loan of equipment to the American National Red Cross for instruction and practice.

(vi) 10 U.S.C. 2543-Loan of equipment to US Presidential Inaugural Committee.

(vii) 10 U.S.C. 2544-Loan of equipment and services to the Boy Scouts of America, for national and world jamborees.

(viii) 10 U.S.C. 2572-(See AR 870-20.) Loan of books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans, models, and condemned or obsolete combat materiel not needed to-

(A) A municipal corporation.

(B) A soldiers monument association.

(C) A state museum.

(D) A nonprofit incorporated museum.

(E) Posts of Veterans of Foreign Wars of the USA.

(F) American Legion Posts.

(G) A local unit of any other recognized war veterans association.

(H) A post of the Sons of Veterans Reserve.

(ix) 10 U.S.C. 4308-Establishment and support of civilian rifle ranges.

(x) 10 U.S.C. 4311-Issue of rifles and ammunition for conducting rifle instruction and practice.

(xi) 10 U.S.C. 4651-Issue of arms, tentage, and equipment to support educational institutions that do not have ROTC but maintain a course in military training prescribed by the Secretary of the Army.

(xii) 10 U.S.C. 4652-Loan of rifles and issue ammunition for target practice to educational institutions having corps of cadets.

(xiii) 10 U.S.C. 4653-Issue of ordnance and ordnance stores to District of Columbia high schools.

(xiv) 10 U.S.C. 4654-Issue of quartermaster supplies at educational institutions that maintain a camp for military instruction of its students.

(xv) 10 U.S.C. 4655-Loan of arms and issue ammunition to other agencies and departments of the US Government.

(xvi) 10 U.S.C. 4656-Loan of aircraft and ancillary equipment to accredited aviation schools at which DA or Air Force personnel pursue courses of instruction.

(xvii) 10 U.S.C. 4683-Loan of obsolete or condemned rifles and accouterments to local units of recognized national veterans organizations for certain ceremonial purposes.

(xviii) 10 U.S.C. 4685-Loan of obsolete ordnance to educational institutions and state soldiers and sailors orphans' homes for purpose of drill and instruction.

(xix) 32 U.S.C. 702-Issue of supplies to State National Guard.

(xx) 33 U.S.C. 701n (Pub. L. 84-99 as amended)-Flood emergency preparation; emergency supplies of drinking water.
