
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### USD(P&R) oversight.

(5)(i) On behalf of the USD(P&R), the DoD-CC shall make or arrange for periodic visits, not less than annually, to selected programs to ensure the monitoring process is in place; validate the compliance data and reporting; and address select focus areas identified by the DoD-CC and priority areas identified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. The DoD-CC may use other means in addition to periodic visits to ensure compliance with the requirements established in this part.

(ii) The DoD-CC shall identify monitoring team members to conduct monitoring activities.

(iii) For DoD-CC monitoring visits, the Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:

(A) Provide necessary technical assistance and logistical support to monitoring teams during monitoring visits to facilities for which they are responsible.

(B) Provide necessary travel funding and support for their respective team members.

(C) Cooperate with monitoring teams, including making all pertinent records available to the teams.

(D) Promptly implement monitoring teams' recommendations concerning early intervention and related services for which the Secretary concerned has responsibility, including those to be furnished through an inter-Service agreement.

(iv) For DoD-CC monitoring visits, the Director, DoDEA, shall:

(A) Provide necessary technical assistance and logistical support to monitoring teams during monitoring visits to facilities for which he or she is responsible.

(B) Cooperate with monitoring teams, including making all pertinent records available to the teams.

(C) Promptly implement monitoring teams' recommendations concerning special education and related services for which the DoDEA school system concerned has responsibility.

(v) The ASD(HA) shall provide technical assistance to the DoD monitoring teams when requested.

(vi) The GC, DoD shall:

(A) Provide legal counsel to the USD(P&R), and, where appropriate, to DoDEA, monitored agencies, and monitoring teams regarding monitoring activities conducted pursuant to this part.

(B) Provide advice about the legal requirements of this part and Federal law to the DoDEA school systems, military medical commanders, military installation commanders, and to other DoD personnel as appropriate, in connection with monitoring activities conducted pursuant to this part.
