
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.2 Loan policies.
####### Disaster relief.

(4)(i) CONUS/OCONUS. (A) In disaster situations local civil authorities must provide relief from their own resources. If this is not sufficient, and the American National Red Cross has a team at the disaster, requests for further assistance should be made to them. If the President has declared a major disaster or emergency, requests should be made to the regional director of the Federal Disaster Assistance Administration (FDAA). (See AR 500-60 for guidance.)

(B) The commanding General, US Army Forces Command (FORSCOM), acting for the Secretary of the Army (SA), is responsible for Army materiel support of disaster relief operations within the United States and the District of Columbia. UCOMs are responsible for disaster relief operations in US possessions and trust territories. These commanders are authorized to task DOD agencies and commands, consistent with defense priorities, to provide materiel in support of operations. A military representative will be appointed by the appropriate command to act as the DOD point of contact with the Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) when military assistance is required during a Presidential declared disaster or emergency. When a disaster or emergency is of such magnitude, the disaster area may be geographically subdivided. A military representative will then be appointed for each FCO. All requests for military assistance will be passed through the FCO to the DOD military representative at the disaster area.

(C) The Director of Military Support (ODCSOPS), HQDA, acts at the DOD point of contact for the Administrator, FDAA, other Federal agencies, and the American National Red Cross in all disaster assistance matters.

(ii) Foreign. (A) The Department of State is responsible for deciding when emergency foreign disaster relief operations will be undertaken. This authority is delegated to Chiefs of Diplomatic Missions for disaster relief operations whose total costs will not exceed $25,000.

(B) Send queries on foreign disaster relief to HQDA (DAMO-ODS) (para 4, app B).
