
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.2 Loan policies.
####### Surety bonds.

(c)(1) Some borrowers of Army materiel must post a surety bond. (See table 2-1 and DA Form 4881-3-R at app E.) Bonds ensure safe return of the borrowed materiel or reimbursement for any loss of or damage to the materiel. The bond will consist of-

(i) A properly executed surety bond with a certified bank check, cash, or negotiable US Treasury bonds, or

(ii) Notice of bond by a reputable bonding company deposited with the approving authority for the loan. Bonds will equal the total price of the borrowed items as shown in exhibit I to the loan agreement (app C, DA Form 4881-R). A "double" bond (bond equal to twice the value of the borrowed item(s)) will be required-

(A) For Army materiel loaned to the Red Cross for instruction and practice to aid the Army, Navy, or Air Force in time of war (10 U.S.C. 2542).

(B) For ordnance and ordnance stores loaned to high schools in the District of Columbia (10 U.S.C. 4653).

(2) The bond need not be posted by the borrowing agency itself. The source or originating agency for the bond is immaterial if the bond is valid. For example, to secure a loan, a State may post bond on behalf of a city, county, or other governmental body or authority within the State.

(3) In an emergency, when posting a bond would delay approval of an urgent loan request and when the total price is less than $1,000, the approval authority may approve the request. The approval is on the condition that the bond be posted within 5 days.

(4) Bond forfeitures or exceptions to mandatory forfeitures can only be made with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Army. Forfeitures will be based on actual expense incurred. Forfeitures do not release the borrowing agency from returning borrowed materiel or affect ownership. Bonds are normally forfeited under the following conditions:

(i) Materiel is not returned at the termination of a loan period or when return has been directed by the Army.

(ii) The borrowing agent refuses to pay for damages or other Army expenses.

(5) Surety bonds will be held by the approving authority until the loan is terminated and final settlement is made. At that time, the bond will be returned to the borrower.

(6) If US treasury bonds are posted as surety bond, the borrower must execute a power of attorney (DA Form 4481-4-R, app F). This will enable cashing of the treasury bonds if some forfeiture is required. DA Form 4881-3-R (Surety Bond) and DA Form 4881-4-R (Power of Attorney) will be reproduced locally on 8by 11-inch paper.
