
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.3 Submission of requests for loan of Army materiel.
####### Non-DOD activities.

(2)Non-DOD activities, including Federal agencies will request loan of Army materiel as follows:

(i) Non-DOD activities, and agencies, will send routine requests by letter 45 days before the materiel is required. Federal agencies may use Standard Form 344 (Multiuse Standard Requisitioning/Issue System Document). Requests will include the following:

(A) The DA approving authority. See table 2-1.

(B) Date request is submitted.

(C) Title of requesting agency and/or person authorized to receive or pick up the borrowed materiel. Be specific; e.g., Special Agent in Charge John Doe, FBI, Anytown, USA, (telephone number with area code) 123-456-7890.

(D) Type of loan; e.g., Boy Scout National Jamboree, American Legion Convention, etc. (with a short summary of circumstances).

(E) Statement that none of the requested materiel is internally available to the requesting activity.

(F) Statement that this support is not reasonably available from local government or commercial sources.

(G) Authority for the loan (if known); e.g., public law, US code, executive order, etc. See table 2-1.

(H) Positive identification of the type and quantity of items required. If national stock numbers and nomenclature are not available, identify the items needed by type, model, size, capacity, caliber, etc.

(I) Geographic location where the materiel will be located and used.

(J) Proposed duration of the loan.

(K) Statement that the agency has, or will ensure capability to properly operate, maintain, secure, and care for the borrowed materiel.

(L) If firearms are requested, a statement that adequate facilities are available to secure the arms. See ยง 623.5(a)(4).

(M) A statement that the borrowing activity will assume all responsibilities, liabilities, and costs related to the movement, use, care, security, loss, damage, and repair of the loaned materiel.

(N) Citation of funds to cover reimbursable costs. Also, a statement that an adequate bond will be provided, if required.

(O) A statement that the loan agreement prepared by the Army will be signed by the "responsible official" of the borrowing activity (or designee).

(P) Name, address, and telephone number of the person who will serve as the point of contact for the requesting agency, authority, or activity.

(Q) Complete instructions for delivery of the equipment to ensure that shipping instructions in the request are consistent with the urgency of the situation. State whether a small quantity shipped by air, express, or other fast means will satisfy immediate needs until bulk shipments can arrive. Also state quantity immediately required.

(R) If applicable, the number of persons to be accommodated.

(ii) Urgent requests may be made to meet expected or actual emergencies. Such requests may be made by telephone or by electrically transmitted message. Include information required in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A) through (R) of this section to the extent possible. The request will be presented to the approving authority. The borrower will then send a complete written request to formalize the emergency request.

(iii) If approval of the loan is granted, approving authorities will contact accountable property officers at CONUS installations (equivalent level overseas), or MRC item managers to determine which items are available. Installation requests to MRCs will state that the installation resources could not meet the loan requirements. Availability decisions will be based on normal management criteria including past and anticipated demand, asset balances, order-ship time, repair rate and repair cycles, and procurement schedules. If requested items are available and approved for issue, the approving authority (or designee) will-

(A) Negotiate and agreement;

(B) Obtain surety bond from the borrower when required;

(C) Provide reproduced copies of the signed documents to the appropriate accountable property office along with authorization to make the loan.

(iv) Approving authorities will maintain a system of numerical control for all loans. The accountable property officer will enter this number on all transaction documents related to each specific loan to include requisition, issue, shipping, turn-in, and financial documents.
