
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.2 Loan policies.
####### Loan agreements.

(b)(1) Upon approval of a loan request and before shipment or issue of the materiel, the approving authority will complete a written loan agreement, DA Form 4881-R. In all cases, the statutory basis for the loan will be cited. The approving authority is acting for the DOD on loans to other Federal agencies, and for the United States on loans to civil authorities and special activities. The agreement will be signed by the approving authority and the borrowing activity. When emergency loans have been made as authorized by this AR, follow-up action will be taken at once to formalize the loan by completing a loan agreement.

(2) Loan agreements are mutually developed by the approving authority and the chief of the borrowing activity (or their designees). The agreements identify the responsibilities of all parties. They include terms and conditions of the loan. Appendix C illustrates a sample loan agreement, DA Form 4881-R (Agreement for the Loan of US Army Materiel), and specifies what the loan agreements will stipulate and contain. Also illustrated at appendix C is DA Form 4881-2-R, which will be completed and appended to the loan agreement as "Exhibit I."

(3) Loan agreements will be held by the approving authority until termination and final settlement of each loan.

(4) If the loan agreement is signed by someone other than the chief borrowing official, than a Certificate for Signature by an Alternate will be completed. (See appendix D for DA Form 4881-1-R.) It will be attached to the signed (by the borrower) copy of the agreement that is retained by the approving authority. DA Forms 4881-R, 4881-1-R, and 4881-2-R are reproduced locally on 8by 11-inch paper.
