
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.3 Submission of requests for loan of Army materiel.
####### The US Secret Service (USSS).

(3)(i) Army regulation 1-4 provides policies and procedures for Army support to the Secret Service. Support will be provided only on the request of the Director, United States Secret Service or his authorized representative. It will be provided only to assist the United State Secret Service in performance of its statutory protective functions.

(ii) Routine requests are sent by the United States Secret Service direct to the Office of the Special Assistant to the SECDEF for approval. Approved requests involving Army resources are tasked through HQDA (DAMO-ODS) to the proper command. Approved requests for resources of other Services are tasked direct to the proper Service.

(iii) Approved requests for resources to be used in oversea areas (regardless of Service) will be passed from the Office of the Special Assistant to the SECDEF to the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) for tasking of the proper unified command.

(iv) In urgent situations, the United States Secret Service may request military resources from the nearest military commander who is authorized to take action consistent with the urgency. As soon as possible, they will seek guidance/approval through command channels to the approval authority (Spec Asst to the SECDEF).
