
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.3 Submission of requests for loan of Army materiel.
####### The Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(5)(i) Requests for aircraft piracy assistance, received from Federal authorities by Army field commands or activities, will be forwarded through command channels by telephone (confirmed by electrically transmitted message) to the Military Support Division, ODCSOPS (DAMO-ODS), AUTOVON 255-3848/7433/2003 (WATS 202-695-2003). These requests will be approved by the DOD General Counsel (or designee).

(ii) The requests will then be sent to the National Military Command Center (NMCC). It will coordinate between the lending accountable property officer and the borrower.

(iii) In urgent cases, the Deputy Director for Operations, NMCC, may approve requests upon his or her own responsibility. This is subject to a later report to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the DOD General Counsel.

(iv) Approved requirements will be passed to the Secretary of the Army by telephone and confirmed by electrically transmitted message. The Secretary of the Army will then assign the requirement to the proper command (or staff agency) which will contact the designated Federal civil official and confirm the details of the request. Modification of the requirement to better perform the mission is authorized if the Federal official agrees.
