
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.4 Accounting procedures.
####### Receipt of borrowed property.

(c)(1) The person authorized to receive the materiel (whether shipped or picked up) will check the quantities received against the quantities shown on the DD Form 1348-1. This person will also verify the condition of the materiel. Any variation in quantity or condition must be resolved at once. If the shortage or damage is not due to a common carrier, the borrower will give the accountable property officer the National Stock Number, document number, and an explanation of the variation at once. This establishes a basis for assessing charges on termination of the loan. Replacement shipments, when required, will be covered by a DD Form 1348-1. All variations will be noted on the reverse side of the bill of lading.

(2) When a DD Form 1348-1 has not been received by the borrower and does not accompany the shipment, an informal report will be made to the accountable property officer at once. It will include the nomenclature, quantities, condition, and if applicable, the model numbers and serial number of all material received.

(3) When shipment has been verified, the borrower (or designee) will enter the quantity received on two copies of the DD Form 1348-1. Serial numbers will also be entered for serial numbered items. The completed copies of the DD Form 1348-1 will be signed by the authorized person. One copy of the DD Form 1348-1 and one copy of the signed certificate (receipt of the materiel) will be returned to the accountable property officer.

(4) If shipments are received damaged or short, take action described in ยง 623.4(g).
