
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.4 Accounting procedures.
####### Accountable property officer actions.

(2)(i) At the end of a loan period, recall, or upon notice by the borrower that the loaned materiel is no longer needed, the accountable property officer will send a letter of instruction to the borrower for return of the materiel. He will verify or modify the turn-in instructions provided in the loan agreement.

(ii) These procedures will be used by accountable property officers to terminate loans:

(A) For loans up to 30 days no specific termination action is necessary except when materiel is not returned by the loan due date. Then, a written loan termination notice will be sent to the borrower. A follow-up notice will be sent every 15 days until the materiel is returned or other settlement is made.

(B) For all other loans 15 days before the loan is due, a loan termination notice will be sent by the lending activity to the borrower verifying (or modifying) the turn-in instructions.

(C) Follow-up of loan termination notice will be made every 15 days until the materiel is returned or other settlement is made.

(iii) After receiving inspection reports (ยง 623.4(e)(3)) and final shipment receipts, the accountable property officer will clear the loan records.

(iv) The accountable property officer will then advise the borrower of the transaction completion by furnishing receipted copies of the receiving document(s).

(v) The accountable property officer will notify the servicing finance and accounting office (FAO) of any reimbursement required.
