
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.4 Accounting procedures.
####### Actions by the receiving installation, depot, or arsenal.

(3)(i) The installation, depot, or arsenal receiving activities will inspect returned materiel.

(A) If the quantity received differs from the quantity shipped, the actual quantity received will be entered on the DD Form 1348-1.

(B) If the condition of the property differs from that noted on the DD Form 1348-1, the variation will be stated.

(ii) Loaned materiel returned in an unserviceable condition will be inspected by qualified technical inspectors at installation level and by quality assurance activities at depots to determine condition code.

(A) If the condition of returned materiel is the same as noted on the receipt document or the prepositioned materiel receipt card, the item will be processed as a normal receipt.

(B) If there is a discrepancy in the actual condition of the item or in the assigned code on the receipt document, obtain an estimate of repair cost and continue normal receipt documentation processing.

(C) The receiving depot or installation will prepare an Inspection and Surveillance Report for each returned item that needs repair. Cards will also be prepared for shortages. The cards will include the cost of equipment repair or the value of shortage. A minimum of two copies of each report will be sent to the proper acountable property officer.
