
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.4 Accounting procedures.
####### Shipment of loaned materiel.

(b)(1) Loaned Army materiel will be shipped only to the chief of the borrowing activity or to a designee authorized to receive and sign for the materiel. To keep the materiel out of unauthorized hands, consignees (receivers) will be advised of the items and quantities to be loaned; the source of supply; whether the items are to be picked up or shipped; and of shipments made.

(2) All shipments of loaned equipment will be documented on DOD single line item "release or receipt" document (DD Form 1348-1). These will be initiated by the lending accountable property officer. Packing, crating, handling, estimated transportation costs, and serial numbers (if applicable) of items shipped will be shown on all copies. The consignee will be given advance copies of the DD Form 1348-1 as notice of shipment, and a list of DD Form 1348-1 document numbers. For loans to non-DOD activities two copies of the certificate below will be prepared by the accountable property officer (see fig. 1). It will accompany the DD Forms 1348-1.

"I certify receipt of and assume responsibility for the Army materiel listed on DD Form 1348-1. Control numbers on DD Form 1348-1 follow. The items were received in good condition except as noted on the DD Form 1348-1. Serial numbers have been verified (omit if not applicable)."

(3) One copy of each signed DD Form 1348-1 (for non-DOD activities, one copy of the signed certificate) will be returned to the accountable property officer. Also, one copy of each will be kept in the borrower's file.

(4) The installation or depot transportation officer is responsible for coordinating movement of the items that must be shipped.

(5) Shipments, including those to foreign countries, will be made on commercial bills of lading (CBL). Freight charges will be paid by the borrower. The CBL will cite proper project codes. NOTE: In emergencies where use of CBL would delay shipment, government bills of lading (GBL) may be used subject to later reimbursement. Shipments to Boy Scout World Jamborees in foreign countries will be by GBL unless otherwise specified by the Boy Scouts.

(6) Shipments will be consolidated to the maximum to get the lowest charges available.

(7) Separate shipping instructions will be provided for each recipient, convention, jamboree, etc., to ensure correct consignee and railhead addresses.

(8) Transportation will be at no expense to the government. The Defense Transportation Services (Military Sealift Command, Military Airlift Command, and Military Traffic Management Command) will send all billings for such transportation costs to the US Army Finance and Accounting Center (USAFAC). The USAFAC will then bill the fiscal station servicing the accountable property office that made the loan. This fiscal station will then bill the borrower for these transportation costs. Army materiel loaned to non-DOD activities is not authorized for oversea movement on a space available basis by MSC or MAC without their prior approval.
