
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.4 Accounting procedures.
####### Loan document format.

(a)(1) When the lending accountable property officer receives copies of the loan request, loan agreement, surety bond (if required), and written loan authorization from the approving authority, the loan request will be converted to Military Standard Requisitioning and Issue Procedures requisition formal (DD Form 1348) as follows: (NOTE: In emergencies, authorization may be made by telephone. The format request, agreement, bond, and authorization will follow. Informal records should be also maintained.)

(2) Loaned property will be kept on the accountable records of the owning property account. The entry showing the quantities loaned will be supported by DD Form 1348-1 (receipt document), and copies of the loan agreement and surety bond (if required). The receipt document must be signed by the responsible official of the borrowing activity. It is then returned to the accountable property officer as a valid hand receipt for property accounting purposes.

(3) Loans will be processed by accountable property officers according to normal supply procedures except as modified by this regulation.

(4) Accountable property officers will keep loan files with enough documentation to provide an audit trail for loan transactions and a single source of accounting and billing for reimbursement. No separate property book accounts will be set up for these loans. Items, with dates shipped, will be identified by use of "loan control numbers" in loan jacket files and in supporting documentation. The files will include copies of-

(i) The loan request. If the request was made by telephone (urgent), a copy of the Memorandum for Record prepared to summarize the call will be used.

(ii) The loan agreement.

(iii) The surety bond (with cash, certified check, US treasury bonds, or adequate bond from a bonding company).

(iv) The approving authorization to make the loan.

(v) DD Form 1348-1 used for shipping the items.

(vi) A master loan register with the loan control number and shipping document number.
