
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### § 623.5 Loan of arms and accouterments.
####### Loans to civilian activities (other than rifle clubs and educational institutions).

(b)(1) Arms and accouterments may be loaned by the Army to civilian authorities and to civilian activities as follows: (§ 623.5(c) covers rifle clubs and institutions.)

(i) For use in protection of public money and property (10 U.S.C. 4655).

(ii) Obsolete or condemed rifles (not more than 10), slings, and cartridge belts may be loaned to local units of any national veteran's organization for use by that unit in ceremonies. (For example, a funeral for a former member of the armed forces.) The organization must be recognized by the Veterans' Administration (VA) (10 U.S.C. 4683).

(iii) Arms and accouterments loaned to organizations listed in § 623.5(c)(1) for a period of 1 year or less will be accounted for by ARRCOM. Loans of items that exceed 1 year will be accounted for by the DCM under § 623.5(c).

(2) Requests for loan (or extension of loan) of Army arms and accouterments will be sent by requesting agencies through HQDA (DALO-SMD), (para 2, app B) to the Secretary of the Army. Requests received outside of this channel will be returned to the originator for direct submission to the address above.

(3) Requests approved by the Secretary of the Army (or Under Secretary) will be sent to ARRCOM, (para 12 app B) Rock Island, IL 61299, for completion of a formal loan agreement and issue of items.

(4) Requisitioning, accounting, and reimbursement procedures are given in § 623.4. However, upon receipt of signed copies of DD Form 1348-1 with the listing of verified serial numbers from the consignee, the ARRCOM Arms and Accouterments Property Officer will send the required transaction data to the DOD Small Arms Serialization Program (DODSASP) at ARRCOM. These data will indicate that the small arms on loan to other Government agencies are accounted for under DOD Activity Address Code W52P41.

(5) Shipment and returns are described in § 623.4 except as follows:

(i) The responsible property officer for materiel or loan will request disposition instructions from the accountable property officer when loaned materiel is no longer needed or at the end of the loan period. Loaned materiel may be withdrawn from the borrowing activity at any time to satisfy military requirements.

(ii) The accountable property officer will:

(A) Issue shipping instructions for the return of property to a designated installation. The letter of instruction will contain a MILSTRIP document number (AR 725-50) for each line item scheduled for return to be used for the shipment. The shipper will be directed to cite this document number on the shipping document.

(B) Prepare and submit to the receiving installation a prepositioned materiel receipt card (DOD Materiel Receipt Document (DD Form 1486)) (Document Identifier DWC) as advance notice of the shipment.
