
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.5 Loan of arms and accouterments.
####### General.

(a)(1) Loan of arms and accouterments requires special processing and handling. Loans to DOD and non-DOD activities will be handled as a normal loan according to instructions in this section with the added requirement of maintaining serial number visibility. Loans of arms and accouterments as included herein are not applicable to Army National Guard (ARNG).

(2) The Commanding General, Armament Readiness Command (ARRCOM) (ATTN: DRSAR-MMS) has been designated by Commanding General, Materiel Development and Readiness Command (DARCOM), as being responsible for keeping a centralized serial number visibility record for all small arms made for the Army. ARRCOM maintains accountable property records for loans to organizations such as the Director of Civilian Marksmanship (DCM); and for loans to non-DOD activities such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United States Secret Service (USSS), United States Customer Service (USCS); or rifle clubs, educational institutions, and veterans' organizations.

(3) Requests for loan of arms which are type classified standard (logistics control code A or B) will be filled with the lowest type classified items available.

(4) Borrowers of Army arms will be fully responsible for the care, custody, and proper use of loaned materiel. Physical security measures must be equal to or greater than the minimum requirements set forth in Army Regulation 190-11 and Army Regulation 190-49.

(5) If borrowed arms are lost, stolen, or unaccounted for, the borrower must inform the lender (accountable property officer), the local police, and the FBI within 24 hours after discovery.

(6) This regulation does not apply to arms issued to Reserve Officers Training Corps units under the National Defense Act. Army Regulation 710-2 is applicable.
