
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.5 Loan of arms and accouterments.
####### Requisition procedures.

(4)(i) The DCM will prepare requisitions based on information from the rifle clubs or institutions. DA Form 1273 (Requisition for Articles Authorized for Issue to Civilian Rifle Clubs) will be used. Two completed copies of the requisition will be sent to the requester.

(ii) The rifle club or institution will complete the form and return one signed copy to the DCM, HQDA, Secretary Field Directorate Marksmanship (SFDM), (para 7, app B) and keep one copy for file.

(iii) On receipt of the signed copy of DA Form 1273, the DCM will take proper issue action. When more arms are required by the DCM, a DD Form 1348 will be prepared and sent to the Secretary of the Army for approval (AR 725-50).

(iv) The supply source responsible for the loan will ship the materiel directly to the rifle club or school.

(v) DD Forms 1348-1 received with the shipment or by mail, will be annotated and signed by the person authorized to receive and sign for property for the rifle club or school. The quantity and condition of the items received will be entered thereon. This entry will be based on a physical check and inspection of the materiel. Serial numbers of items received (if applicable and not noted) will also be entered. Two of the completed copies will be signed by the person authorized to sign for the club or institution. They will be mailed to the DCM, HQDA Secretary Field Directorate Marksmanship (SFDM). The third completed copy will be kept in the unit's file.

(vi) If a DD Form 1348-1 is not received with the shipment or is not received by mail, a receipt letter will be sent to the DCM. It will set forth the nomenclature, quantities, condition, and serial numbers (of serial-numbered items) of all property received. This letter will be sent as soon as possible after receipt of the property. The receipt letter will be used by the DCM as a loan voucher. One copy will be recorded in the voucher register and placed in the voucher file. The loan action will be posted to the DCM stock record account.
