
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.5 Loan of arms and accouterments.
####### Property transactions.

(3)US Army Armament Materiel Readiness Command (ARRCOM) will transfer accountability for materiel shipped to civilian rifle clubs and institutions to the DCM. The DCM will keep a mission stock record account for these items as shown in Army Regulation 710-2. In addition, the account will note all property transactions between the DCM and civilian rifle clubs and institutions as follows:

(i) Loan and return of arms and accouterments to (from) civilian rifle clubs and institutions will not be posted to the accountable record as loss or gain vouchers. They will be posted as "loan transactions" with the DCM retaining accountability. In addition to debit, credit, and adjustment voucher files, the DCM accountable property officer will keep a "loan voucher" file in two sections; e.g., "active" and "terminated."

(A) The active section (suspense for items on loan) will contain DD Form 1348-1 or a letter acknowledging receipt of the items. (The signature of the borrower will be according to paragraph (4) (v) or (vi) of this section.) This section will contain a folder for each activity serviced by the DCM. The active loan vouchers will be filed in National Stock Number and voucher number sequence. This section serves as the DCM loan record.

(B) The terminated section (for items no longer on loan) will contain the original loan shipping document (loan voucher). The return receipt document which terminates the loan will be attached. The receipt document will contain the original shipping document number and the return advice code "IQ."

(ii) Shipments of expendable items (e.g., ammunition, targets, etc.) will be posted as a credit to the accountable record. Accountability will be dropped (These items are deemed to have been consumed at the time of issue).

(iii) Expendable items returned by rifle clubs and institutions will be posted to the accountable record as a debit voucher. The DCM will determine disposition of these items.
