
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.5 Loan of arms and accouterments.
####### Loans to rifle clubs and educational institutions,Authorization.

(c)-(1)Arms and accouterments may be loaned to rifle clubs and educational institutions for periods established in table 2-2 under the following conditions:

(i) Rifled arms may be loaned to civilian rifle clubs for promotion of marksmanship training among able-bodied US citizens (10 U.S.C. 4308).

(ii) Arms, tentage, and equipment, as the Secretary of the Army deems necessary, may be loaned to an educational institution to provide proper military training where there is no ROTC, but there is a course in military training prescribed by the Secretary of the Army and there are at least 100 physically fit males over 14 years of age (10 U.S.C. 4651).

(iii) Magazine rifles and appendages may be loaned to schools having a uniformed corps of cadets of sufficient number for target practice. Models loaned must not be in use at the time, or needed for a proper reserve supply (10 U.S.C. 4652).

(iv) Ordnance and ordnance stores may be loaned to Washington, DC, high schools for military instruction and practice (10 U.S.C. 4653).

(v) Obsolete ordnance and ordnance stores may be loaned to educational institutions and to State soldiers', sailors', and orphans' homes for drill and instruction if recommended by the Governor of the state or territory concerned (10 U.S.C. 4685).
