
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.6 Reimbursement for loan of Army materiel.
####### Determination of charges and settlement.

(e)(1) Returned materiel will be promptly classified by a qualified inspector with action as follows:

(i) Materiel classified as unserviceable, uneconomically reparable will be billed at 100 percent of value.

(ii) Materiel classified as unserviceable, economically reparable will be billed for reduced utility (if appropriate) as well as for repair/overhaul costs.

(iii) The depreciation of borrowed materiel will be determined by technical inspectors according to Army Regulation 735-11. When qualified inspectors are not available, returned property will be received with "condition" shown as "subject to final classification by DA." Accountable property officers will complete classification promptly so charges and billing can be made within 30 days of return of materiel.

(2) All returned property which needs repair will be examined by a technical inspector to find cost of repair. Then the accountable property officer will prepare a property transaction record with supporting documents. These records will be sent to the proper MACOM commander or CINC of UCOM for final review. They will include-

(i) A statement on the transaction record identifying the financial account to which the reimbursement money is to be deposited.

(ii) A statement on the transaction record (if appropriate) as follows: "The losses and/or damages shown on the Property Transaction Record in the amount of $______ represent the total claim by the US Army for property loaned to ________________. Upon settlement and deposit to the proper account, lender releases the ________________ from further obligations."

(iii) A description of the type and degree of repair (separate addendum).

(3) After the final review, an approved list of charges will be sent to the servicing finance office for collection. The property will be released for repair and returned to stock.

(4) The finance office will send a letter to the borrower requesting payment (payable to the Treasurer of the United States). Upon payment, collection documents will be prepared and fiscal accounts credited. The MACOM or UCOM Surgeon will ensure the stock fund is reimbursed for expendable medical supply losses reported.

(5) The finance office will advise the loaning accountable property officer that settlement has been made. Property transaction records will be closed.

(6) The approving authority will then return the bond to the borrower.

(7) The value of supplies and equipment returned to the Army will be credited to the account originally debited at the time of issue. FDAA Regional Directors may find that it is not in the public interest to return borrowed materiel that has not been consumed, lost, or damaged. They will negotiate with the CONUS Army concerned for proper reimbursement for the borrowed materiel not returned.
