
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.6 Reimbursement for loan of Army materiel.
####### Reimbursable costs.

(b)Unless specifically stated, borrowing agencies, authorities, and activities will reimburse the Army for all costs related to loan of Army materiel to include but not limited to the following:

(1) Any overtime pay and pay of additional civilian personnel required to accompany, operate, maintain, or safeguard borrowed equipment.

(2) Travel and per diem expenses of Army personnel (military and civilian).

(3) Packing, crating, handling, and shipping from supply source to destination and return. This includes port loading and off loading.

(4) All transportation including return for repair or renovation.

(5) Hourly rate for the use of Army aircraft.

(6) Petroleum, oil, and lubricants (POL) (including aviation fuel).

(7) The cost of materiel lost, destroyed, or damaged beyond economical repair except for Army aircraft, motor vehicles, or motor craft used in connection with aircraft piracy.

(8) Utilities (gas, water, heat, and electricity). Charges will be based on meter readings or other fair method.

(9) Any modification or rehabilitation of Army real property which affects its future use by DA. In such cases the borrower will also bear the cost of restoring the facility to its original form.

(10) Repair/overhaul of returned materiel. Renovation and repair will conform with agreement between the Army and the borrower. (See paragraph (e)(1) of this section.)

(11) Repair parts used in maintenance or renovation.

(12) Price decline of borrowed stock fund materiel at which returned property can be sold.
