
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.6 Reimbursement for loan of Army materiel.
####### Delinquent and uncoolectible accounts.

(f)(1) In cases of unsatisfactory settlement, bond proceeds will be used to satisfy the claim.

(2) If this does not settle the account, then 6 months after the final report and after all collection efforts have failed-

(i) Servicing finance offices will send delinquent "accounts receivable" reports to commanders of CONUS Armies and DARCOM readiness commands, and to CINCs of UCOMs, by forwarding-

(A) Duplicate copies of Standard Form 1080 billing documents showing complete accounting classification to which reimbursement is to be credited.

(B) Duplicate copies of all supporting documents.

(C) One copy of any correspondence showing the reason(s) for nonpayment of the account.

(ii) The CONUS Army Commanding General, CINC of UCOM, or Commanding Generals of DARCOM Materiel Readiness Commands, will also try to collect for these delinquent accounts. If all efforts fail, these accounts, (with any delinquent accounts applicable to billings initiated within their own headquarters) will be sent to the Director of Comproller Systems, HQDA (DACA-BUS). (Para 1, app B). The letter of transmittal will state that the accounts are transferred according to this regulation. A copy will be sent to the FAO handling the accounts. The FAO will then transfer the account to inactive status. A Standard Form 1017G (Journal Voucher) will be prepared showing a debit to account 3052 (Transfer of Accounts Receivable) and a credit to the proper accounts receivable.

(iii) Appropriations available to the accountable property officer or installation will be used for reimbursing; e.g., the Army Stock Fund or Army Industrial Fund accounts. Any later reimbursements received will be credited to the Army appropriation from which payment was made.

(3) Upon receipt of the accounts included in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the Comptroller, HQDA (DACA-BUS), will take further collection action under normal operating procedures. All later collection action is the responsibility of the Comptroller. Accounting records and reports will conform with normal procedures. When further collection effort by the Comptroller fails, these accounts will be dropped from receivable balances of the Army. They will be referred to the General Accounting Office (GAO).
