
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.6 Reimbursement for loan of Army materiel.
####### Reimbursement policies and procedures,Policies.

(a)-(1)(i) DA elements do not program for costs related to loan of Army materiel.

(ii) Loans to non-DOD Federal activities are made on the basis that there will be no extra cost to the Army. Costs that are in addition to normal Army operating expenses will be reimbursed by the borrower. This provision will be a part of the loan agreement.

(iii) In cases of aircraft piracy, civil disturbance, disaster relief, or protection of the President or visiting dignitaries, emergency support will not be withheld for lack of a formal reimbursement agreement. In these cases, the supporting Army element will absorb initial costs (within existing fund availability). Reimbursement will be coordinated later.

(iv) Loans made under the provisions of Title 10 U.S.C. 2667 will provide that the borrower must pay a fair monetary rental. The fair monetary rental will be determined on the basis of prevailing commercial rates or computed by sound commercial accounting practices including a return on capital investment and administrative cost as well as depreciation. Leases made under this code section will include a provision establishing the rental cost of the materiel and method of payment.

(v) The Army National Guard (ARNG) is responsible for reimbursement of costs, over and above normal DA operating expenses, related to the borrowed Army materiel.

(vi) Support to the United States Secret Service (USSS) will be on a reimbursable basis except for costs directly related to protection of the President or Vice President. Requests for reimbursement for all other support for USSS will be according to AR 37-27.

(vii) The cost of emergency support will be billed directly to the recipient.
