
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter H - Supplies and Equipment
##### PART 623 - LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
###### ยง 623.6 Reimbursement for loan of Army materiel.
####### Procedures.

(2)(i) The Army accountable property officer handling the loan of DLA stock fund items will coordinate DLA billings and borrower reimbursement. The borrower can make payment directly to the Defense Stock Fund.

(ii) Installation financial accounting for "accounts receivable" will conform with Army Regulation 37-108.

(iii) The finance and accounting office (FAO) supporting the supplying accountable property officer will record all charges, including accounts receivable of Army Stock Fund offices (or branch offices), in separate ledger accounts for each borrower.

(iv) Charges and collections recorded in each loan account will be reported per Army regulations and directives prescribing the reporting of the fund status in any current fiscal year.

(v) Billing will be initiated on Standard Form 1080, and sent to the borrower within 30 days of turn-in of materiel and loan termination. For loans of arms and accouterments and issue of ammunition pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 4655, the Standard Form 1080 will be annotated to show that collections are to reimburse DA appropriations.

(vi) Special appropriations established to support disaster relief will be used promptly by Army commanders concerned to ensure that all direct expenses are charged to the special appropriation. Exclude those charges subject to reimbursement by the American National Red Cross (ANRC). ANRC reimburses for supplies, materiel, and services for which they are responsible in the disaster area.
