
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 631 - ARMED FORCES DISCIPLINARY CONTROL BOARDS AND OFF-INSTALLATION LIAISON AND OPERATIONS
###### Subpart C - Off-Installation Operations (Military Patrols and Investigative Activities) and Policy
####### ยง 631.16 Navy policy.

The following policies apply to off-installation operations-

(a) Article 1630-020, MILPERSMAN revised August 2002, and Navy Parts, Article 0922 concerning the establishment and operation of a shore patrol.

(b) In accordance with SECNAV 1620.7A, Navy Absentee Collection Units collect, and process apprehended absentees and deserters, escort apprehended absentees, and deserters to their parent commands or to designated processing activities, escort prisoners between confinement facilities, and provide liaison with civilian law enforcement authorities.

(c) Navy personnel will be thoroughly familiar with all applicable agreements and Implementing standard operating procedures, to include the constraints of the Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385), in CONUS and United States-host nation agreements in OCONUS areas, as applicable.

(d) Within CONUS. (1) Installation Commanders may request authority from their Regional Commander, to establish off-installation operations-

(i) To assist Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies within the limits imposed by higher authority and the Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385).

(ii) In conjunction with military operations.

(iii) To safeguard the health, and welfare of Naval personnel.

(iv) When the type of offenses or the number of service members frequenting an area is large enough to warrant such operation.

(2) Constraints on the authority of military personnel to act off-installation (Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385) and the specific scope of the authority will be clearly delineated in all authorizations for off-installation operations.

(e) Within OCONUS, off-installation operations will be kept at the minimum needed for mission accomplishment. Installation commanders may authorize off-installation operations as required by local conditions and customs, as long as they are conducted in accordance with applicable treaties and SOFAs.

(f) Off-installation operations will be coordinated with the local installation commander through the JAG or higher authority, and local law enforcement authorities.

(g) Security personnel selected for off-installation operations must-

(1) Have mature judgment and law enforcement experience.

(2) Be thoroughly familiar with all applicable agreements and implementing standard operating procedures, to include the constraints of the Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385), in CONUS and United States Host Nation agreements in OCONUS area, as applicable.

(h) Security personnel accompanying civilian police during off-installation operations do so only to enforce parts and orders pertaining to persons subject to their jurisdiction. Security personnel assigned off-installation operations remain directly responsible to, and under the command of their Navy superiors when accompanying civilian police. Security personnel performing such duties may come to the aid of civilian police in order to prevent the commission of a felony or injury to a civilian police officer.

(i) Civilian police and court liaison may be established with concurrence of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service and is encouraged particularly when the intent is to reduce mishaps.
