
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 631 - ARMED FORCES DISCIPLINARY CONTROL BOARDS AND OFF-INSTALLATION LIAISON AND OPERATIONS
###### Subpart C - Off-Installation Operations (Military Patrols and Investigative Activities) and Policy
####### ยง 631.17 Marine Corps policy.

(a) Within CONUS. (1) Commanders may request authority from Headquarters, Marine Corps (Code POS), to establish off-installation operations-

(i) To assist Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies within the limits imposed by higher authority and the Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385).

(ii) In conjunction with military operations.

(iii) To safeguard the health, and welfare of Marines.

(iv) When the type of offenses or the number of service members frequenting an area is large enough to warrant such operations.

(2) Constraints on the authority of military personnel to act off-installation (Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385)) and the specific scope of the authority will be clearly delineated in all authorizations for off-installation operations.

(b) Within OCONUS, off-installation operations will be kept at the minimum needed for mission accomplishment. Installation commanders may authorize off-installation operations as required by local conditions and customs, as long as they are conducted in accordance with applicable treaties and SOFAs.

(c) Off-installation operations will be coordinated with the local installation commander through the SJA, or higher authority, and local law enforcement authorities.

(d) Marines selected for off-installation operations must-

(1) Have mature judgment and law enforcement experience.

(2) Be thoroughly familiar with all applicable agreements and implementing standard operating procedures, to include the constraints of the Posse Comitatus Act (18 U.S.C. 1385), in CONUS and United States-host nation agreements in OCONUS areas, as applicable.

(e) Marines accompanying civilian police during off-installation operations do so only to enforce parts and orders pertaining to persons subject to their jurisdiction. Marines assigned off-installation operations remain directly responsible to, and under the command of their Marine superiors when accompanying civilian police. Marines performing such duties may come to the aid of civilian police in order to prevent the commission of a felony or injury to a civilian police officer.

(f) Procedures for absentee and deserter collection units to accept an active-duty absentee or deserter from civilian authorities may be established.

(g) Civilian police and civil court liaison may be established.
