
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 631 - ARMED FORCES DISCIPLINARY CONTROL BOARDS AND OFF-INSTALLATION LIAISON AND OPERATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 631 - Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board Procedures Guide
####### Off-limit procedures.

A-6.

a. Off-limits restrictions should be invoked only when there is substantive information indicating that an establishment or area frequented by Armed Forces personnel presents conditions, which adversely affect their health, safety, welfare, morale, or morals. It is essential that boards do not act arbitrarily. Actions must not be of a punitive nature. Boards should work in close cooperation with local officials and proprietors of business establishments, and seek to accomplish their mission through mutually cooperative efforts. Boards should encourage personal visits by local military, and civilian enforcement or health officials to establishments considered below standard. AFDCBs should point out unhealthy conditions or undesirable practices to establishment owners or operators to produce the desired corrective action.

b. In cases involving discrimination, the board should not rely solely on letters written by the Equal Opportunity Office, and Military Affairs Committee or investigations of alleged racial discrimination.

c. If the board decides to attempt to investigate or inspect an establishment, the president or a designee will prepare, and submit a report of findings, and recommendations at the next meeting. This procedure will ensure complete, and documented information concerning questionable adverse conditions.

d. When the board concludes that conditions adverse to Armed Forces personnel do exist, the owner or manager will be sent a letter of notification (Annex A). This letter will advise him or her to raise standards by a specified date, and, if such conditions or practices continue, off-limits proceedings will be initiated. Any correspondence with the individuals responsible for adverse conditions, which may lead to off-limits action, will be by certified mail.

e. If a proprietor takes remedial action to correct undesirable conditions previously noted the board should send a letter of appreciation (Annex B) recognizing this cooperation.

f. If undesirable conditions are not corrected, the proprietor will be invited to appear before the AFDCB to explain why the establishment should not be placed off-limits (Annex C). Any proprietor may designate in writing a representative to appear before the board in his or her behalf.

g. In cases where proprietors have been invited to appear before the board, the president of the board will perform the following-

(1) Prior to calling the proprietor-

(a) Review the findings and decision of the previous meeting.

(b) Call for inspection reports.

(c) Allow those present to ask questions, and discuss the case.

(2) When the proprietor or his or her representative is called before the board-

(a) Present the proprietor with a brief summary of the complaint concerning the establishment.

(b) Afford the proprietor an opportunity to present matters in defense.

(c) Invite those present to question the proprietor. After the questioning period, provide the proprietor an opportunity to make a final statement before being dismissed.

(3) Deliberations on recommended actions will be in closed session, attended only by board members.

h. The board should recommend an off-limits restriction only after the following:

(1) The letter of notification (Annex A) has been sent.

(2) An opportunity for the proprietor to appear before the board has been extended.

(3) Further investigation indicates that improvements have not been made.

i. The minutes will indicate the AFDCB's action in each case. When a recommendation is made to place an establishment off-limits, the minutes will show the procedural steps followed in reaching the decision.

j. Recommendations of the AFDCB will be submitted to the sponsoring commander for consideration. The recommendations will then be forwarded to other installation commanders who are represented on the board (Annex D). If no objection to the recommendations is received within 10 days, the sponsoring commander will approve or disapprove the recommendations and forward the decision to the AFDCB president.

k. Upon approval of the AFDCB's recommendations, the president will write the proprietor that the off-limits restriction has been imposed (Annex E).

l. A time limit should not be specified when an off-limits restriction is revoked. The adequacy of the corrective action taken by the proprietor of the establishment must be the determining factor in removing the off-limits restriction.

m. Military authorities may not post off-limits signs or notices on private property.

n. In emergencies, commanders may temporarily declare establishments or areas off-limits to service members subject to their jurisdiction. The circumstances for the action will be reported as soon as possible to the commander sponsoring the board. Detailed justification for this emergency action will be provided to the board for its deliberations.

o. Appropriate installation commanders will publish a list of off-limits establishments and areas using command and media channels.
