
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 631 - ARMED FORCES DISCIPLINARY CONTROL BOARDS AND OFF-INSTALLATION LIAISON AND OPERATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 631 - Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board Procedures Guide
####### Removal of off-limits restrictions.

A-7.

a. Removal of an off-limits restriction requires AFDCB action. Proprietors of establishments declared off-limits should be advised that they may appeal to the appropriate AFDCB at any time. In their appeal they should submit the reason why the restriction should be removed. A letter of notification for continuance of the off-limits restriction should be sent to the proprietor if the AFDCB does not remove the off-limits restriction (Annex F). The proprietor may appeal to the next higher commander if not satisfied with continuance after exhausting all appeals at the local sponsoring commander level. Boards should make at least quarterly inspections of off-limits establishments. A statement that an inspection has been completed should be included in AFDCB minutes.

b. When the board learns that the proprietor has taken adequate corrective measures, the AFDCB will take the following actions:

(1) Discuss the matter at the next meeting and make an appropriate recommendation.

(2) Forward a recommendation for removal of the off-limits restriction to the sponsoring commander. If approved, a letter removing the restriction (Annexes G & H) will be sent to the proprietor.

(3) The minutes will reflect action taken.
