
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 631 - ARMED FORCES DISCIPLINARY CONTROL BOARDS AND OFF-INSTALLATION LIAISON AND OPERATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 631 - Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board Procedures Guide
####### Minutes.

A-11.

a. Minutes will be prepared in accordance with administrative formats for minutes of meetings prescribed by the Service of the sponsoring commander (Annex I). The written minutes of AFDCB meetings will constitute the official record of the AFDCB proceedings. Verbatim transcripts of board meetings are not required. The reasons for approving or removing an off-limits restriction, to include a complete address of the establishment or area involved, should be indicated in the order of business. In addition, the AFDCB's action will be shown in the order or sequence of actions taken. A change in the name of an establishment or areas in an off-limits restriction will also be included.

b. Distribution of the minutes of AFDCB meetings will be limited to the following-

(1) Each voting member, sponsoring command, and commands and installations represented by the board.

(2) Each civilian and military advisory member, if deemed appropriate.

(3) Civilian and Government agencies within the State in which member installations are located having an interest in the functions of the board, if appropriate.

c. AFDCB minutes are subject to release and disclosure in accordance with applicable Service parts and directives.

d. Minutes and recommendations of the board will be forwarded to the sponsoring commander for approval.

This letter is to inform you that it has come to the attention of the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) that certain conditions reported at your establishment may adversely affect the (health, safety, or welfare) of members of the Armed Forces.

The AFDCB is initiating action to determine whether your establishment (area) should be placed off-limits to members of the Armed Forces if (cite conditions) are not corrected by (date).

A representative of the AFDCB will visit your establishment to determine if steps have been taken to correct the conditions outlined above.

Sincerely,

This is in reference to my letter of (date) concerning the condition(s) reported at your establishment which adversely affected the health and welfare of members of the Armed Forces.

The Board appreciates your action(s) to correct the condition(s) previously noted and does not contemplate further action with respect to this specific matter.

Your continued cooperation is solicited.

Sincerely,

This is in reference to my letter of (date) concerning the condition reported at your establishment which adversely affects the (health, safety, or welfare) of members of the Armed Forces. Information has been received by the board which indicates you have not taken adequate corrective action to eliminate the reported condition.

Reports presented to the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) indicate (list and describe conditions).

You are advised that the AFDCB will initiate action to determine whether your establishment should be declared off-limits to members of the Armed Forces.

You may appear in person, with or without counsel, before the AFDCB at its next scheduled meeting on (date, time, and place). At that time you will have the opportunity to refute the allegation(s), or to inform the board of any remedial action(s) you have taken or contemplate taking to correct the condition. It is requested that you inform the President, of the AFDCB if you plan to attend.

Any questions regarding this matter may be addressed to the President, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board, (address). Every effort will be made to clarify the matter for you.

Sincerely,

1. On (date), the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) recommended imposition of the following off-limits restrictions: (name and address of establishment)

2. Commanders furnishing AFDCB representatives are requested to provide any comments within 10 days as to whether (name of establishment or area) should be placed off-limits.

3. A copy of the AFDCB minutes and recommendation is enclosed.

Sincerely,

This letter is to inform you that your establishment has been declared off-limits to members of the Armed Forces effective (date). Members of the Armed Forces are prohibited from entering your establishment (premises) as long as this order is in effect. This action is being taken because of (state the conditions) which are detrimental to the (health or welfare) of members of the Armed Forces.

This restriction will remain in effect indefinitely in accordance with established Armed Forces policy. Removal of the restriction will be considered by the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board upon presentation of information that satisfactory corrective action has been taken.

Correspondence appealing this action may be submitted to the President, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board, (cite address).

Sincerely,

Proprietor

Dear Sir:

The Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) did not favorably consider your request for removal of the off-limits restriction now in effect at your establishment.

This decision does not preclude further appeals or appearances before the AFDCB at any of its scheduled meetings. Correspondence pertaining to this matter should be addressed to the President, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board, (cite address).

Sincerely,

Proprietor

Dear Sir:

This letter is to inform you that the off-limits restriction against (name of establishment) is removed effective (date). Members of the Armed Forces are permitted to patronize your establishment as of that date.

The corrective actions taken in response to the concerns of the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board are appreciated.

Sincerely,

This letter is to inform you that your request for removal of the off-limits restriction now in effect at (name of establishment) was favorably considered by the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB).

This restriction will be removed effective (date). Members of the Armed Forces will be permitted to patronize your establishment as of that date.

The corrective actions taken in response to the concerns of the AFDCB are appreciated.

Sincerely,

1. Pursuant to authority contained in AR 190-24/AFI 31-213/ OPNAVINST 1620.2A/MCO 1620.2C/and COMDTINST 1620.1D, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Boards and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations, the (area) Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board convened at (place), (date)

2. The following voting members were present: (List names, titles, and addresses.)

3. The following military members were present: (List names, titles, and addresses.)

4. The following civilian advisory members were present: (List names, titles, and addresses.)

5. Order of business:

a. Call to order.

b. Welcome.

c. Introduction of members and guests.

d. Explanation of purpose of board.

e. Reading of minutes.

f. Unfinished or continuing business.

g. New business (subparagraph as necessary).

h. Recommendations.

(1) List of areas and establishments being placed in an off-limits restriction.

Include complete name and address (or adequate description of an area) of any establishment listed.

(2) List of areas and establishments being removed from off-limits restrictions. Include complete name and address (or adequate description of an area) of any establishment listed.

(3) Other matters or problems of mutual concern.

i. Time, date, and place for next board meeting.

j. Adjournment of the board.
