
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart A - Introduction
####### ยง 634.4 Responsibilities.
######## Departmental.

(a)The Provost Marshal General, Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA); Director, Naval Criminal Investigative Service, U.S. Navy (USN); Headquarters, Air Force Security Forces Center; Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps (USMC); Staff Director, Command Security Office, Headquarters, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), and Chief, National Guard Bureau will-

(1) Exercise staff supervision over programs for motor vehicle traffic supervision.

(2) Develop standard policies and procedures that include establishing an automated records program on traffic supervision.

(3) Maintain liaison with interested staff agencies and other military departments on traffic supervision.

(4) Maintain liaison with departmental safety personnel on traffic safety and accident reporting systems.

(5) Coordinate with national, regional, and state traffic officials and agencies, and actively participate in conferences and workshops sponsored by the Government or private groups at the national level.

(6) Help organize and monitor police traffic supervision training.

(7) Maintain liaison with the Department of Transportation (DOT) and other Federal departments and agencies on the National Highway Safety Program Standards (NHSPS) and programs that apply to U.S. military traffic supervision.

(8) Participate in the national effort to reduce intoxicated driving.
