
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart A - Introduction
####### ยง 634.4 Responsibilities.
######## Installation or activity commander, Director of Military Support and State Adjutant General.

(e)The installation or activity commander (for the Navy, the term installation shall refer to either the regional commander or installation commanding officer, whoever has ownership of the traffic program) will-

(1) Establish an effective traffic supervision program.

(2) Cooperate with civilian police agencies and other local, state, or federal government agencies concerned with traffic supervision.

(3) Ensure that traffic supervision is properly integrated in the overall installation traffic safety program.

(4) Actively participate in Alcohol Safety Action Projects (ASAP) in neighboring communities.

(5) Ensure that active duty Army law enforcement personnel follow the provisions of AR 190-45 in reporting all criminal violations and utilize the Centralized Police Operations Suite (COPS) to support reporting requirements and procedures. Air Force personnel engaged in law enforcement and adjudication activities will follow the provisions of AFI 31-203 in reporting all criminal and traffic violations, and utilized the Security Forces Management Information Systems (SFMIS) to support reporting requirements and procedures.

(6) Implement the terms of this part in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71.

(7) Revoke driving privileges in accordance with this part.
