
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart B - Driving Privileges
####### ยง 634.7 Stopping and inspecting personnel or vehicles.

(a) Government vehicles may be stopped by law enforcement personnel on military installations based on the installation commander's policy.

(1) In overseas areas, Government vehicles may be stopped on or off installations as determined by host nation agreement and command policy.

(2) Stops and inspections of vehicles at installation gates or entry points and in restricted areas will be conducted according to command policy.

(b) Stops and inspections of POVs within the military installation, other than at restricted areas or at an installation gate, are authorized only when there is a reasonable suspicion of criminal activity, or of a violation of a traffic regulation or of the installation commander's policy. Marine Corps users will be guided by publication of Marine Corps order and Military Rules of Evidence 311-316 and local command regulations. DLA users, see DLAR 5700.7.

(c) At the time of stop, the driver and occupants may be required to display all pertinent documents, including but not limited to:

(1) DD Form 2A.

(2) Documents that establish the identity and status of civilians; for example, Common Access Card (CAC), DD Form 1173 (Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card), DA Form 1602 (Civilian Identification), AF Form 354 (Civilian Identification Card), DD Form 2 (Armed Forces of the United States Identification Card), post pass, national identity card, or other identification.

(3) Proper POV registration documents.

(4) Host nation vehicle registration documents, if applicable.

(5) Authorization to operate a Government vehicle, if applicable.

(6) Drivers license or OF 346 valid for the particular vehicle and area of operation.

(7) Proof of insurance.
