
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart B - Driving Privileges
####### ยง 634.17 Extensions of suspensions and revocations.

(a) Driving in violation of a suspension or revocation imposed under this part will result in the original period of suspension or revocation being increased by 2 years. In addition, administrative action may be initiated based on the commission of any traffic, criminal, or military offenses, for example, active duty military personnel driving on the installation in violation of a lawful order.

(b) For each subsequent determination within a 5-year period that revocation is authorized under ยง 634.9, military personnel, DOD civilians, contractors and NAF employees will be prohibited from obtaining or using an OF 346 for 6 months for each such incident. A determination whether DOD civilian personnel should be prohibited from obtaining or using an OF 346 will be made in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to civilian personnel. This does not preclude a commander from imposing such prohibition for a first offense, or for a longer period of time for a first or subsequent offense, or for such other reasons as may be authorized.

(c) Commanders may extend a suspension or revocation of driving privileges on personnel until completion of an approved remedial driver training course or alcohol or drug counseling programs after proof is provided.

(d) Commanders may extend a suspension or revocation of driving privileges on civilian personnel convicted of intoxicated driving on the installation until successful completion of a state or installation approved alcohol or drug rehabilitation program.

(e) For Navy personnel for good cause, the appropriate authority may withdraw the restricted driving privilege and continue the suspension or revocation period (for example, driver at fault in the traffic accident, or driver cited for a moving violation.
