
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart B - Driving Privileges
####### ยง 634.11 Administrative due process for suspensions and revocations.

(a) Individual Services will promulgate separate regulations establishing administrative due process procedures for suspension or revocation of driving privileges. The procedures in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply to actions taken by Army commanders with respect to Army military personnel and family members and to civilian personnel operating motor vehicles on Army installations. For Marine Corps users, the provisions of this section apply. For Air Force users, a preliminary suspension for intoxicated driving remains in effect until the installation commander makes a final decision. Requested hearings must take place within a reasonable period, which is determined by the installation commander.

(b) For offenses other than intoxicated driving, suspension or revocation of the installation driving privilege will not become effective until the installation commander or designee notifies the affected person and offers that person an administrative hearing. Suspension or revocation will take place 14 calendar days after written notice is received unless the affected person makes an application for a hearing within this period. Such application will stay the pending suspension or revocation for a period of 14 calendar days.

(1) If, due to action by the government, a hearing is not held within 14 calendar days, the suspension will not take place until such time as the person is granted a hearing and is notified of the action of the installation commander or designee. However, if the affected person requests that the hearing be continued to a date beyond the 14-day period, the suspension or revocation will become effective immediately on receipt of notice that the request for continuance has been granted, and remain in force pending a hearing at a scheduled hearing date.

(2) If it is determined as a result of a hearing to suspend or revoke the affected person's driving privilege, the suspension or revocation will become effective when the person receives the written notification of such action. In the event that written notification cannot be verified, either through a return receipt for mail or delivery through command channels, the hearing authority will determine the effective date on a case-by-case basis.

(3) If the revocation or suspension is imposed after such hearing, the person whose driving privilege has been suspended or revoked will have the right to appeal or request reconsideration. Such requests must be forwarded through command channels to the installation commander within 14 calendar days from the date the individual is notified of the suspension or revocation resulting from the administrative hearing. The suspension or revocation will remain in effect pending a final ruling on the request. Requests for restricted privileges will be considered per ยง 634.15.
