
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart B - Driving Privileges
####### ยง 634.15 Restricted driving privileges or probation.

(a) For the Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and DLA, the installation commander, or his or her designee may modify a suspension or revocation of driving privileges in certain cases per paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) Army requests for restricted driving privileges subsequent to suspension or revocation of installation driving privileges will be referred to the installation commander or designee, except for intoxicated driving cases, which must be referred to the General Court Martial Convening Authority. Withdrawal of restricted driving privileges is within the installation commander's discretion.

(c) Probation or restricted driving privileges will not be granted to any person whose driver license or right to operate motor vehicles is under suspension or revocation by a state, Federal, or host nation licensing authority. Prior to application for probation or restricted driving privileges, a state, Federal, or host nation driver's license or right to operate motor vehicles must be reinstated. The burden of proof for reinstatement of driving privileges lies with the person applying for probation or restricted driving privileges. Revocations for test refusals shall remain.

(d) The installation commander or designee may grant restricted driving privileges or probation on a case-by-case basis provided the person's state or host nation driver's license or right to operate motor vehicles remains valid to accommodate any of the following reasons:

(1) Mission requirements.

(2) Unusual personal or family hardships.

(3) Delays exceeding 90 days, not attributed to the person concerned, in the formal disposition of an apprehension or charges that are the basis for any type of suspension or revocation.

(4) When there is no reasonably available alternate means of transportation to officially assigned duties. In this instance, a limited exception can be granted for the sole purpose of driving directly to and from the place of duty.

(e) The terms and limitations on a restricted driving privilege (for example, authorization to drive to and from place of employment or duty, or selected installation facilities such as hospital, commissary, and or other facilities) will be specified in writing and provided to the individual concerned. Persons found in violation of the restricted privilege are subject to revocation action as prescribed in ยง 634.9.

(f) The conditions and terms of probation will be specified in writing and provided to the individual concerned. The original suspension or revocation term in its entirety may be activated to commence from the date of the violation of probation. In addition, separate action may be initiated based on the commission of any traffic, criminal, or military offense that constitutes a probation violation.

(g) DOD employees and contractors, who can demonstrate that suspension or revocation of installation driving privileges would constructively remove them from employment, may be given a limiting suspension/revocation that restricts driving on the installation or activity (or in the overseas command) to the most direct route to and from their respective work sites (5 U.S.C. 2302(b) (10)). This is not to be construed as limiting the commander from suspension or revocation of on-duty driving privileges or seizure of OF 346, even if this action would constructively remove a person from employment in those instances in which the person's duty requires driving from place to place on the installation.
