
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart B - Driving Privileges
####### ยง 634.12 Army administrative actions against intoxicated drivers.

Army commanders will take appropriate action against intoxicated drivers. These actions may include the following:

(a) A written reprimand, administrative in nature, will be issued to active duty Soldiers in the cases described in this paragraph (a). Any general officer, and any officer frocked to the grade of brigadier general, may issue this reprimand. Filing of the reprimand will be in accordance with the provisions of AR 600-37.

(1) Conviction by courts-martial or civilian court or imposition of nonjudicial punishment for an offense of drunk or impaired driving either on or off the installation.

(2) Refusal to take or failure to complete a lawfully requested test to measure alcohol or drug content of the blood, breath, or urine, either on or off the installation, when there is reasonable belief of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs.

(3) Driving or being in physical control of a motor vehicle on post when the blood alcohol content is 0.08 percent or higher, irrespective of other charges, or off post when the blood alcohol content is in violation of the law of the State involved.

(4) Driving, or being in physical control of a motor vehicle, either on or off the installation, when lawfully conducted chemical tests reflect the presence of illegal drugs.

(b) Review by the commander of the service records of active duty soldiers apprehended for offenses described in paragraph (a) of this section to determine if the following action(s) should be taken-

(1) Administrative reduction per AR 600-8-19, or

(2) Bar to reenlistment per AR 601-280, or

(3) Administrative separation per AR 635-200.
