
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart D - Traffic Supervision
####### ยง 634.25 Installation traffic codes.

(a) Installation or activity commanders will establish a traffic code for operation of motor vehicles on the installation. Commanders in overseas areas will establish a traffic code, under provisions of this part, to the extent military authority is empowered to regulate traffic on the installation under the applicable SOFA. Traffic codes will contain the rules of the road (parking violations, towing instructions, safety equipment, and other key provisions). These codes will, where possible, conform to the code of the State or host nation in which the installation is located. In addition, the development and publication of installation traffic codes will be based on the following:

(1) Highway Safety Program Standards (23 U.S.C. 402).

(2) Applicable portions of the Uniform Vehicle Code and Model Traffic Ordinance published by the National Committee on Uniform Traffic Laws and Ordinances.

(b) The installation traffic code will contain policy and procedures for the towing, searching, impounding, and inventorying of POVs. These provisions should be well publicized and contain the following:

(1) Specific violations and conditions under which the POV will be impounded and towed.

(2) Procedures to immediately notify the vehicle owner.

(3) Procedures for towing and storing impounded vehicles.

(4) Actions to dispose of the vehicle after lawful impoundment.

(5) Violators are responsible for all costs of towing, storage and impounding of vehicles for other than evidentiary reasons.

(c) Installation traffic codes will also contain the provisions discussed as follows: (Army users, see AR 385-55).
