
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart D - Traffic Supervision
####### ยง 634.24 Traffic planning and codes.

(a) Safe and efficient movement of traffic on an installation requires traffic supervision. A traffic supervision program includes traffic circulation planning and control of motor vehicle traffic; publication and enforcement of traffic laws and regulations; and investigation of motor vehicle accidents.

(b) Installation commanders will develop traffic circulation plans that provide for the safest and most efficient use of primary and secondary roads. Circulation planning should be a major part of all long-range master planning at installations. The traffic circulation plan is developed by the installation law enforcement officer, engineer, safety officer, and other concerned staff agencies. Highway engineering representatives from adjacent civil communities must be consulted to ensure the installation plan is compatible with the current and future circulation plan of the community. The plan should include the following:

(1) Normal and peak load routing based on traffic control studies.

(2) Effective control of traffic using planned direction, including measures for special events and adverse road or weather conditions.

(3) Point control at congested locations by law enforcement personnel or designated traffic directors or wardens, including trained school-crossing guards.

(4) Use of traffic control signs and devices.

(5) Efficient use of available parking facilities.

(6) Efficient use of mass transportation.

(c) Traffic control studies will provide factual data on existing roads, traffic density and flow patterns, and points of congestion. The installation law enforcement officer and traffic engineer usually conduct coordinated traffic control studies to obtain the data. Accurate data will help determine major and minor routes, location of traffic control devices, and conditions requiring engineering or enforcement services.

(d) The (Military) Surface Deployment and Distribution Command Transportation Engineering Agency (SDDCTEA) will help installation commanders solve complex highway traffic engineering problems. SDDCTEA traffic engineering services include-

(1) Traffic studies of limited areas and situations.

(2) Complete studies of traffic operations of entire installations. (This can include long-range planning for future development of installation roads, public highways, and related facilities.)

(3) Assistance in complying with established traffic engineering standards.

(e) Installation commanders should submit requests for traffic engineering services in accordance with applicable service or agency directives.
