
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart C - Motor Vehicle Registration
####### ยง 634.20 Privately owned vehicle operation requirements.

Personnel seeking to register their POVs on military installations within the United States or its territories and in overseas areas will comply with the following requirements. (Registration in overseas commands may be modified in accordance with international agreements or military necessity.)

(a) Possess a valid state, overseas command, host nation or international drivers license (within appropriate classification), supported by DD Form 2, or other appropriate identification for DOD civilians, contractors and retirees. DA Form 1602, Civilian Identification Card, is limited for identification on Army installations only.

(b) Possess a certificate of state registration as required by the state in which the vehicle is registered.

(c) Comply with the minimum requirements of the automobile insurance laws or regulations of the state or host nation. In overseas commands where host nation laws do not require minimum personal injury and property damage liability insurance, the major overseas commander will set reasonable liability insurance requirements for registration and/or operation of POVs within the confines of military installations and areas where the commander exercises jurisdiction. Prior to implementation, insurance requirements in host states or nations should be formally coordinated with the appropriate host agency.

(d) Satisfactorily complete a safety and mechanical vehicle inspection by the state or jurisdiction in which the vehicle is licensed. If neither state nor local jurisdiction requires a periodic safety inspection, installation commanders may require and conduct an annual POV safety inspection; however, inspection facilities must be reasonably accessible to those requiring use. Inspections will meet minimum standards established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) in 49 CFR 570.1 through 570.10. Lights, turn signals, brake lights, horn, wipers, and pollution control devices and standards in areas where applicable, should be included in the inspection. Vehicles modified from factory standards and determined unsafe may be denied access and registration.

(e) Possess current proof of compliance with local vehicle emission inspection if required by the state, and maintenance requirements.

(f) Vehicles with elevated front or rear ends that have been modified in a mechanically unsafe manner are unsafe and will be denied registration. 49 CFR 570.8 states that springs shall not be extended above the vehicle manufacturer's design height.
