
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart C - Motor Vehicle Registration
####### ยง 634.21 Department of Defense Form 2220.
######## Specifications.

(b)(1) DD Form 2220 and installation and expiration tabs will consist of international blue borders and printing on a white background. Printer information will include the following:

(i) Form title (Department of Defense Registered Vehicle).

(ii) Alphanumeric individual form identification number.

(iii) DOD seal.

(2) Name of the installation will be specified on a separate tab abutting the decal. Each Service or DLA may choose optional color codes for the registrant. Army and installations having vehicle registration programs will use the following standard color scheme for the installation tab:

(i) Blue-officers.

(ii) Red-enlisted.

(iii) Green DA civilian employees (including NAF employees).

(iv) Black-contractor personnel and other civilians employed on the installation. White will be used for contract personnel on Air Force installations.

(3) An expiration tab identifying the month and year (6-2004), the year (2000) or simply "00" will be abutted to right of the decal. For identification purposes, the date of expiration will be shown in bold block numbers on a lighter contrasting background such as traffic yellow, lime, or orange.

(4) DD Form 2220 and any adjoining tabs will be theft resistant when applied to glass, metal, painted, or rubberized surfaces and manufactured so as to obliterate or self destruct when removal is attempted. Local policy guided by state or host nation laws will specify the exact placement of DD Form 2220.

(5) For Navy and Marine Corps military personnel the grade insignia will be affixed on placards, approximately 5 inches by 8 inches in size, and placed on the driver's side dashboard. Placards should be removed from view when the vehicle is not located on a military installation.
