
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart D - Traffic Supervision
####### ยง 634.35 Chemical testing policies and procedures.
######## Breath-testing device operational procedures.

(b)If the State or host nation has not established procedures for use of breath-testing devices, the following procedures will apply:

(1) Screening breath-testing devices will be used-

(i) During the initial traffic stop as a field sobriety testing technique, along with other field sobriety testing techniques, to determine if further testing is needed on an evidential breath-testing device.

(ii) According to manufacture operating instructions. (For Army, Air Force and Marine Corps, the screening breath-testing device must also be listed on the NHTSA conforming products list published in the "Model Specifications for Evidential Breath Testers" (September 17, 1993, 58 FR 48705).

(2) Evidential breath-testing devices will be used as follows:

(i) Observe the person to be tested for at least 15 minutes before collecting the breath specimen. During this time, the person must not drink alcoholic beverages or other fluids, eat, smoke, chew tobacco, or ingest any substance.

(ii) Verify calibration and proper operation of the instrument by using a control sample immediately before the test.

(iii) Comply with operational procedures in the manufacturer's current instruction manual.

(iv) Perform preventive maintenance as required by the instruction manual.
