
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart D - Traffic Supervision
####### ยง 634.37 Voluntary breath and bodily fluid testing based on implied consent.

(a) Implied consent policy is explained in ยง 634.8.

(b) Tests may be administered only if the following conditions are met:

(1) The person was lawfully stopped while driving, operating, or in actual physical control of a motor vehicle on the installation.

(2) Reasonable suspicion exists to believe that the person was driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs.

(3) A request was made to the person to consent to the tests combined with a warning that failure to voluntarily submit to or complete a chemical test of bodily fluids or breath will result in the revocation of driving privileges.

(c) As stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the law enforcement official relying on implied consent will warn the person that driving privileges will be revoked if the person fails to voluntarily submit to or complete a requested chemical test. The person does not have the right to have an attorney present before stating whether he or she will submit to a test, or during the actual test. Installation commanders will prescribe the type or types of chemical tests to be used. Testing will follow policies and procedures in ยง 634.35. The results of chemical tests conducted under the implied consent provisions of this part may be used as evidence in courts-martial, nonjudicial proceedings under Article 15 of the UCMJ, administrative actions, and civilian courts.

(d) Special rules exist for persons who have hemophilia, other blood-clotting disorders, or any medical or surgical disorder being treated with an anticoagulant. These persons-

(1) May refuse a blood extraction test without penalty.

(2) Will not be administered a blood extraction test to determine alcohol or other drug concentration or presence under this part.

(3) May be given breath or urine tests, or both.

(e) If a person suspected of intoxicated driving refuses to submit to a chemical test, a test will not be administered except as specified in ยง 634.38.
