
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 634 - MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
###### Subpart F - Impounding Privately Owned Vehicles
####### ยง 634.53 Disposition of vehicles after impoundment.

(a) If a POV is impounded for evidentiary purposes, the vehicle can be held for as long as the evidentiary or law enforcement purpose exists. The vehicle must then be returned to the owner without delay unless directed otherwise by competent authority.

(b) If the vehicle is unclaimed after 120 days from the date notification was mailed to the last known owner or the owner released the vehicle by properly completing DD Form 2505, the vehicle will be disposed of by one of the following procedures:

(1) Release to the lienholder, if known.

(2) Processed as abandoned property in accordance with DOD 4160.21-M.

(i) Property may not be disposed of until diligent effort has been made to find the owner; or the heirs, next of kin, or legal representative of the owner.

(ii) The diligent effort to find one of those mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section shall begin not later than 7 days after the date on which the property comes into custody or control of the law enforcement agency.

(iii) The period for which this effort is continued may not exceed 45 days.

(iv) If the owner or those mentioned in ยง 634.52 are determined, but not found, the property may not be disposed of until the expiration of 45 days after the date when notice, giving the time and place of the intended sale or other disposition, has been sent by certified or registered mail to that person at his last known address.

(v) When diligent effort to determine those mentioned in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section is unsuccessful, the property may be disposed of without delay, except that if it has a fair market value of more than $500, the law enforcement official may not dispose of the property until 45 days after the date it is received at the storage point.

(c) All contracts for the disposal of abandoned vehicles must comply with 10 U.S.C. 2575.
