
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 635 - LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTING
###### Subpart A - Records Administration
####### ยง 635.4 Police intelligence/Criminal information.
######## http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r381_12.pdf

(a) The purpose of gathering police intelligence is to identify individuals or groups of individuals in an effort to anticipate, prevent, or monitor possible criminal activity. Police intelligence aids criminal investigators in developing and investigating criminal cases. 32 CFR part 633 designates the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command (USACIDC) as having the primary responsibility to operate a criminal intelligence program. Criminal Intelligence will be reported through the Army Criminal Investigation and Criminal Intelligence (ACI2) System and other criminal intelligence products. The crimes listed in paragraphs (a)(1)-(9) of this section, as well as the reportable incidents, behavioral threat indicators, and other matters of counterintelligence interest specified by AR 381-12, Threat Awareness and Reporting Program, (available at) will be reported to the nearest Army counterintelligence office.

(1) Sedition;

(2) Aiding the enemy by providing intelligence to the enemy;

(3) Spying;

(4) Espionage;

(5) Subversion;

(6) Treason;

(7) International terrorist activities or material support to terrorism (MST);

(8) Unreported contacts with foreigners involved in intelligence activities;

(9) Unauthorized or intentional disclosure of classified info.

(b) Information on persons and organizations not affiliated with DoD may not normally be acquired, reported, processed or stored. Situations justifying acquisition of this information include, but are not limited to-

(1) Theft, destruction, or sabotage of weapons, ammunition, equipment facilities, or records belonging to DoD units or installations.

(2) Protection of Army installations and activities from potential threat.

(3) Information received from the FBI, state, local, or international law enforcement agencies which directly pertains to the law enforcement mission and activity of the installation Provost Marshal Office/Directorate of Emergency Services (PMO/DES), Army Command (ACOM), Army Service Component Command (ASCC) or Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) PMO/DES, or that has a clearly identifiable military purpose and connection. A determination that specific information may not be collected, retained or disseminated by intelligence activities does not indicate that the information is automatically eligible for collection, retention, or dissemination under the provisions of this part. The policies in this section are not intended and will not be used to circumvent any federal law that restricts gathering, retaining or dissemination of information on private individuals or organizations.
