
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 635 - LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTING
###### Subpart A - Records Administration
####### ยง 635.6 Registration of sex offenders on Army installations (inside and outside the Continental United States).
######## http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r190_47.pdf,http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r27_10.pdf,et seq.,,http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r27_10.pdf,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/132507p.pdf

(c) Sex Offender Registration Requirements. Sex offenders, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must register with the installation PMO/DES within three working days of first arriving on an installation. Sex offenders must provide the installation PMO/DES with evidence of the qualifying conviction. The PMO/DES will enter the registering sex offender's conviction information on a Raw Data File as an information entry into the Army's Law Enforcement Reporting and Tracking System (ALERTS) with the state the sex offender was convicted, date of conviction, and results of conviction, to include length of time required to register and any specific court ordered restrictions. Registration with the PMO/DES does not relieve sex offenders of their legal obligation to comply with applicable state and local registration requirements for the state in which they reside, work, or attend school (see, AR 190-47 (available at), chapter 14 and AR 27-10 (available at), chapter 24). Registration with the state is also required under the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA), 42 U.S.C. 16901and implemented by AR 27-10 (Available at), Military Justice, and DoDI 1325.7 (Available at). In addition, upon assignment, reassignment, or change of address, sex offenders will inform the installation PM/DES within three working days. Failure to comply with registration requirements is punishable under Federal or State law and/or under the UCMJ. "State" in this paragraph includes any jurisdiction listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in which a sex offender is required to register.

(d) Installation PMOs and DESs will maintain and update a monthly roster of current sex offenders names and provide it to the Sexual Assault Review Board; the Army Command PM and DES and the garrison commander.

(e) Installation PMs and DESs will complete the following procedures for all other sex offenders required to register on the installation-

(1) Complete a Raw Data File as an information entry into ALERTS.

(2) Ensure the sex offender produces either evidence of the qualifying conviction or the sex offender registration paperwork in order to complete the narrative with the state in which the sex offender was convicted, date of conviction, and results of conviction, to include length of time required to register and any specific court ordered restrictions.

(f) DoD civilians, contractors, and family members that fail to register at the installation PMO/DES are subject to a range of administrative sanctions, including but not limited to a complete or limited bar to the installation and removal from military housing.
