
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 635 - LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTING
###### Subpart A - Records Administration
####### ยง 635.7 Collection of deoxyribonucleic acid.
######## http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/550511p.pdf

(b) Army LE personnel will obtain a DNA sample from a civilian in their control at the point it is determined there is probable cause to believe the detained person violated a Federal statute equivalent to the offenses identified in DoDI 5505.11 (available at), Fingerprint Card and Final Disposition Report Submission Requirements, and 32 CFR part 310, Department of Defense Privacy Program, except for the listed violations that are exclusively military offenses. For the purposes of this rule, DNA shall be taken from all civilian drug offenders, except those who are arrested or detained for the offenses of simple possession and personal use.

(1) When Army LE personnel make a probable cause determination concerning a civilian not in their control, Army LE personnel are not required to collect DNA samples. Likewise, Army LE personnel are not required to obtain DNA samples when another LE agency has, or will, obtain the DNA.

(2) Army LE personnel will use the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Laboratory (USACIL) DNA kit which includes a DNA sample card and the USACIL DNA database collection eform. Army LE personnel will forward civilian DNA samples to the USACIL. Army LE personnel will document, in the appropriate case file, when civilian LE agencies handle any aspect of the DNA processing and whether the civilian LE agency forwarded the DNA sample to the FBI laboratory.
