
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter I - Law Enforcement and Criminal Investigations
##### PART 635 - LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTING
###### Subpart B - Release of Information
####### ยง 635.8 General.

(a) The policy of HQDA is to conduct activities in an open manner and provide the public accurate and timely information. Accordingly, law enforcement information will be released to the degree permitted by law and Army regulations.

(b) Any release of military police records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, whether to persons within or outside the Army, must be in accordance with the FOIA and the Privacy Act.

(c) Requests by individuals for access to military police records about themselves will be processed in compliance with FOIA and the Privacy Act.

(d) Military police records in the temporary possession of another organization remain the property of the originating law enforcement agency. The following procedures apply to any organization authorized temporary use of military police records:

(1) Any request from an individual seeking access to military police records will be immediately referred to the originating law enforcement agency for processing. The temporary custodian of military police records does not have the authority to release those records.

(2) When the temporary purpose of the using organization has been satisfied, the military police records will be returned to the originating law enforcement agency or the copies will be destroyed.

(3) A using organization may maintain information from military police records in their system of records, if approval is obtained from the originating law enforcement agency. This information may include reference to a military police record (for example, Law Enforcement Report number or date of offense), a summary of information contained in the record, or the entire military police record. When a user includes a military police record in its system of records, the originating law enforcement agency will delete portions from that record to protect special investigative techniques, maintain confidentiality, preclude compromise of an investigation, and protect other law enforcement interests.
