
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Subpart A - Introduction
####### ยง 651.4 Responsibilities.
######## Heads of Headquarters, Army agencies.

(g)The heads of headquarters, Army agencies will:

(1) Apply policies and procedures herein to programs and actions within their staff responsibility except for state-funded operations of the Army National Guard (ARNG).

(2) Task the appropriate component with preparation of NEPA analyses and documentation.

(3) Initiate the preparation of necessary NEPA analyses, assess proposed programs and projects to determine their environmental consequences, and initiate NEPA documentation for circulation and review along with other planning or decision-making documents. These other documents include, as appropriate, completed DD Form 1391 (Military Construction Project Data), Case Study and Justification Folders, Acquisition Strategies, and other documents proposing or supporting proposed programs or projects.

(4) Coordinate appropriate NEPA analyses with ARSTAF agencies.

(5) Designate, record, and report to the DEP the identity of the agency's single POC for NEPA considerations.

(6) Assist in the review of NEPA documentation prepared by DOD and other Army or federal agencies, as requested.

(7) Coordinate proposed directives, instructions, regulations, and major policy publications that have environmental implications with the DEP.

(8) Maintain the capability (personnel and other resources) to comply with the requirements of this part and include provisions for NEPA requirements through the Program Planning and Budget Execution System (PPBES) process.
