
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Subpart A - Introduction
####### ยง 651.4 Responsibilities.
######## The Director of Environmental Programs.

(f)The director, with support of the U.S. Army Environmental Center, and under the ACSIM, will:

(1) Advise Army agencies in the preparation of NEPA analyses, upon request.

(2) Review, as requested, NEPA analyses submitted by the Army, other DOD components, and other federal agencies.

(3) Monitor proposed Army policy and program documents that have environmental implications to determine compliance with NEPA requirements and ensure integration of environmental considerations into decision-making and adaptive management processes.

(4) Propose and develop Army NEPA guidance pursuant to policies formulated by ASA(I&E).

(5) Advise project proponents regarding support and defense of Army NEPA requirements through the budgeting process.

(6) Provide NEPA process oversight, in support of ASA(I&E), and, as appropriate, technical review of NEPA documentation.

(7) Oversee proponent implementation and execution of NEPA requirements, and develop and execute programs and initiatives to address problem areas.

(8) Assist the ASA(I&E) in the evaluation of formal requests for the delegation of NEPA responsibilities on a case-by-case basis. This assistance will include:

(i) Determination of technical sufficiency of the description of proposed action and alternatives (DOPAA) when submitted as part of the formal delegation request (ยง 651.7).

(ii) Coordination of the action with the MACOM requesting the delegation.

(9) Periodically provide ASA(I&E) with a summary analysis and recommendations on needed improvements in policy and guidance to Army activities concerning NEPA implementation, in support of ASA(I&E) oversight responsibilities.

(10) Advise headquarters proponents on how to secure funding and develop programmatic NEPA analyses to address actions that are Army-wide, where a programmatic approach would be appropriate to address the action.

(11) Designate a NEPA PM to coordinate the Army NEPA program and notify ASA(I&E) of the designation.

(12) Maintain manuals and guidance for NEPA analyses for major Army programs in hard copy and make this guidance available on the World Wide Web (WWW) and other electronic means.

(13) Maintain a record of NEPA POCs in the Army, as provided by the MACOMs and other Army agencies.

(14) Forward electronic copies of all EAs, and EISs to AEC to ensure inclusion in the Army NEPA library; and ensure those same documents are forwarded to the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC).
