
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Subpart B - National Environmental Policy Act and the Decision Process
####### ยง 651.14 Integration with Army planning.
######## Analyses and documentation.

(e)Several statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders require analyses, consultation, documentation, and coordination, which duplicate various elements and/or analyses required by NEPA and the CEQ regulations; often leading to confusion, duplication of effort, omission, and, ultimately, unnecessary cost and delay. Therefore, Army proponents are encouraged to identify, early in the NEPA process, opportunities for integrating those requirements into proposed Army programs, policies, and projects. Environmental analyses required by this part will be integrated as much as practicable with other environmental reviews, laws, and Executive Orders (40 CFR 1502.25). Incorporation of these processes must ensure that the individual requirements are met, in addition to those required by NEPA. The NEPA process does not replace the procedural or substantive requirements of other environmental statutes and regulations. Rather, it addresses them in one place so the decision maker has a concise and comprehensive view of the major environmental issues and understands the interrelationships and potential conflicts among the environmental components. NEPA is the "umbrella" that facilitates such coordination by integrating processes that might otherwise proceed independently. Prime candidates for such integration include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) Clean Air Act, as amended (General Conformity Rule, 40 CFR parts 51 and 93).

(2) Endangered Species Act.

(3) NHPA, sections 106 and 110.

(4) NAGPRA (Public Law 101-601, 104 Stat. 3048).

(5) Clean Water Act, including Section 404(b)(1).

(6) American Indian Religious Freedom Act.

(7) Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act.

(8) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.

(9) Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.

(10) Pollution Prevention Act.

(11) The Sikes Act, Public Law 86-797, 74 Stat. 1052.

(12) Federal Compliance with Right-to-Know Laws and Pollution Prevention Requirements (Executive Order 12856, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 616).

(13) Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations (Executive Order 12898, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 859).

(14) Indian Sacred Sites (Executive Order 13007, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 196).

(15) Protection of Children From Environmental Health Risks and Safety Risks (Executive Order 13045, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 198).

(16) Federal Support of Community Efforts Along American Heritage Rivers (Executive Order 13061, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 221).

(17) Floodplain Management (Executive Order 11988, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 117).

(18) Protection of Wetlands (Executive Order 11990, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 121).

(19) Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions (Executive Order 12114, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 356).

(20) Invasive Species (Executive Order 13112, 3 CFR, 1999 Comp., p. 159).

(21) AR 200-3, Natural Resources-Land, Forest, and Wildlife Management.

(22) Environmental analysis and documentation required by various state laws.

(23) Any cost-benefit analyses prepared in relation to a proposed action (40 CFR 1502.23).

(24) Any permitting and licensing procedures required by federal and state law.

(25) Any installation and Army master planning functions and plans.

(26) Any installation management plans, particularly those that deal directly with the environment.

(27) Any stationing and installation planning, force development planning, and materiel acquisition planning.

(28) Environmental Noise Management Program.

(29) Hazardous waste management plans.

(30) Integrated Cultural Resource Management Plan as required by AR 200-4 and DODD 4700.4, Natural Resources Management Program.

(31) Asbestos Management Plans.

(32) Integrated Natural Resource Management Plans, AR 200-3, Natural Resources-Land, Forest, and Wildlife Management, and DODD 4700.4, Natural Resources Management Program.

(33) Environmental Baseline Surveys.

(34) Programmatic Environment, Safety, and Health Evaluation (PESHE) as required by DOD 5000.2-R and DA Pamphlet 70-3, Army Acquisition Procedures, supporting AR 70-1, Acquisition Policy.

(35) The DOD MOU to Foster the Ecosystem Approach signed by CEQ, and DOD, on 15 December 1995; establishing the importance of "non-listed," "non-game," and "non-protected" species.

(36) Other requirements (such as health risk assessments), when efficiencies in the overall Army environmental program will result.
