
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 60 - FAMILY ADVOCACY COMMAND ASSISTANCE TEAM (FACAT)
###### ยง 60.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MC&FP)), under the authority, direction, and control of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and Force Management, shall:

(1) Monitor compliance with this part.

(2) Train, maintain, and support a team of full-time or permanent part-time federal officers or employees from various disciplines to comprise the FACAT and respond to child sexual abuse in DoD-sanctioned activities.

(3) Develop and coordinate criteria for determining the appropriate professional disciplines, support staff, and the required capabilities of FACAT members.

(4) Ensure that policies and guidelines on activation and use of the FACAT are shared and coordinated with the DoD Components.

(5) Program, budget, and allocate funds for the FACAT.

(6) Appoint the chief of the FACAT and team members, and provide required logistical support when the FACAT is deployed.

(7) Coordinate the management and interaction of this effort with other Federal and civilian agencies as necessary.

(8) Foster general awareness of FACAT goals and responsibilities.

(b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:

(1) Ensure compliance with this part throughout their respective Departments.

(2) Establish departmental procedures to implement with this part.

(3) Designate nominees for the FACAT upon request and ensure replacements are nominated when vacancies are indicated.

(4) Ensure that commanders and staff are aware of the availability and proper use of the FACAT and the procedures for requesting a FACAT to assist in addressing extrafamilial child sexual abuse allegations covered by this part.

(5) Encourage timely and comprehensive reporting in accordance with this part.
