
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Subpart F - Environmental Impact Statement
####### ยง 651.45 Steps in preparing and processing an EIS.
######## ROD.

(j)The ROD documents the decision made and the basis for that decision.

(1) The proponent will prepare a ROD for the decision maker's signature, which will:

(i) Clearly state the decision by describing it in sufficient detail to address the significant issues and ensure necessary long-term monitoring and execution.

(ii) Identify all alternatives considered by the Army in reaching its decision, specifying the environmentally preferred alternative(s). The Army will discuss preferences among alternatives based on relevant factors including environmental, economic, and technical considerations and agency statutory missions.

(iii) Identify and discuss all such factors, including any essential considerations of national policy that were balanced by the Army in making its decision. Because economic and technical analyses are balanced with environmental analysis, the agency preferred alternative will not necessarily be the environmentally preferred alternative.

(iv) Discuss how those considerations entered into the final decision.

(v) State whether all practicable means to avoid or minimize environmental harm from the selected alternative have been adopted, and if not, why they were not.

(vi) Identify or incorporate by reference the mitigation measures that were incorporated into the decision.

(2) Implementation of the decision may begin immediately after approval of the ROD.

(3) The proponent will prepare an NOA to be published in the FR by the HQDA proponent, following congressional notification. Processing and approval of the NOA is the same as for an NOI.

(4) RODs will be distributed to agencies with authority or oversight over aspects of the proposal, cooperating agencies, appropriate congressional, state, and district offices, all parties that are directly affected, and others upon request.

(5) One electronic copy of the ROD will be forwarded to ODEP.

(6) A monitoring and enforcement program will be adopted and summarized for any mitigation (see Appendix C of this part).
