
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Subpart H - Environmental Effects of Major Army Action Abroad
####### ยง 651.56 Responsibilities.

(a) The ASA(I&E) will:

(1) Serve as the Secretary of the Army's responsible official for environmental matters abroad.

(2) Maintain liaison with the DUSD(IE) on matters concerning Executive Order 12114, DODD 6050.7, and this part.

(3) Coordinate actions with other Secretariat offices as appropriate.

(b) The DEP will:

(1) Serve as ARSTAF proponent for implementation of Executive Order 12114, DODD 6050.7, and this part.

(2) Apply this part when planning and executing overseas actions, where appropriate in light of applicable statutes and SOFAs.

(c) The DCSOPS will:

(1) Serve as the focal point on the ARSTAF for integrating environmental considerations required by Executive Order 12114 into Army plans and activities. Emphasis will be placed on those actions reasonably expected to have widespread, long-term, and severe impacts on the global commons or the territories of foreign nations.

(2) Consult with the Office of Foreign Military Rights Affairs of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs) (ASD(ISA)) on significant or sensitive actions affecting relations with another nation.

(d) TJAG, in coordination with the OGC, will provide advice and assistance concerning the requirements of Executive Order 12114 and DODD 6050.7.

(e) The Chief of Public Affairs will provide advice and assistance on public affairs as necessary.
