
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Appendix A to Part 651 - References

Military publications and forms are accessible from a variety of sources through the use of electronic media or paper products. In most cases, electronic publications and forms that are associated with military organizations can be accessed at various address or web sites on the Internet. Since electronic addresses can frequently change, or similar web links can also be modified at several locations on the Internet, it's advisable to access those sites using a search engine that is most accommodative, yet beneficial to the user. Additionally, in an effort to facilitate the public right to information, certain publications can also be purchased through the National Technical Information Service (NTIS). Persons interested in obtaining certain types of publications can write to the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.

Army Public Affairs, Public Information.

A related publication is merely a source of additional information. The user does not have to read it to understand this part.

Reduction and Realignment Actions.

Army Energy Program.

Airspace and Special Military Operation Requirements.

Real Estate Selection and Acquisition: Procedures and Criteria.

Environmental Protection and Enhancement.

Natural Resources-Land, Forest, and Wildlife Management.

Cultural Resources Management.

Administration.

Master Planning for Army Installations.

Management Information Control System.

Department of the Army Information Security Program.

Army Safety Program.

Operations Security (OPSEC).

Army Acquisition Procedures.

An electronic knowledge presentation system available through the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition Reform) and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and Technology).

Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs and Major Automated Information Systems.

Commercial Activities Program.

Natural Resources Management Program, Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan (INRMP), Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan (ICRMP).

Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense Actions.

Environmental Planning and Analysis

Floodplain Management, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 117

Protection of Wetlands, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 121.

Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions, 3 CFR, 1979 comp., p. 356.

Civil Justice Reform, 3 CFR, 1991 Comp., p. 359.

Federal Compliance with Right-to-Know Laws and Pollution Prevention Requirements, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 616.

Elimination of One-Half of Executive Branch Internal Regulations, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 630.

Regulatory Planning and Review, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 638.

Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority and Low-Income Populations, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 859.

Indian Sacred Sites, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 196.

Protection of Children from Environmental Health Risks and Safety Risks, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 198.

Federal Support of Community Efforts Along American Heritage Rivers, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 221.

Federalism, 3 CFR, 1998 Comp., p. 146.

Public Laws: American Indian Religious Freedom Act.

42 U.S.C. 1996.
