
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 60 - FAMILY ADVOCACY COMMAND ASSISTANCE TEAM (FACAT)
###### ยง 60.6 Procedures.
####### Deployment of a FACAT.

(d)(1) The DASD(MC&FP) shall deploy a FACAT at the request of a DoD Component.

(2) The DASD(MC&FP) may deploy a FACAT at the request of the Head of the DoD Component without a request from the installation commander. Such circumstances include a case where:

(i) The victims are from different Military Services or DoD Components, or there are multiple care providers who are the subjects of the report from different Military Services or DoD Components;

(ii) Significant issues in responding to the allegations have arisen between the Military Services or DoD Components and other Federal agencies or civilian authorities; or

(iii) The situation has potential for widespread public interest that could negatively impact performance of the DoD mission.

(3) The DASD(MC&FP) shall configure the FACAT based on the information and recommendations of the requestor, the installation FAPM, and the FAPD of the DoD Component.

(4) The DASD(MC&FP) shall:

(i) Request the FAPDs to identify several individuals from the FACAT roster who are available for deployment.

(ii) Request, through the appropriate channels of the DoD Component, that the individuals' supervisors release them from normal duty positions to serve on temporary duty with the deploying FACAT.

(5) The DASD(MC&FP) shall provide fund citations to the FACAT members for their travel orders and per diem and shall provide information regarding travel arrangements. The FACAT members shall be responsible for preparing travel orders and making travel arrangements.
