
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Appendix E to Part 651 - Content of the Environmental Impact Statement
####### Environmental and socioeconomic consequences.

(7)This section forms the scientific and analytic basis for the comparison of impacts. It should discuss:

(i) Direct effects and their significance.

(ii) Indirect effects and their significance.

(iii) Possible conflicts between the proposed action and existing land use plans, policies, and controls.

(iv) Environmental effects of the alternatives, including the proposed action and the no action alternative.

(v) Energy requirements and conservation potential of various alternatives and mitigation measures.

(vi) Irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources associated with the proposed action.

(vii) Relationship between short-term use of the environment and maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity.

(viii) Urban quality, historic, and cultural resources, and design of the built environment, including the reuse and conservation potential of various alternatives and mitigation measures.

(ix) Cumulative effects of the proposed action in light of other past, present, and foreseeable actions.

(x) Means to mitigate or monitor adverse environmental impacts.

(xi) Any probable adverse environmental effects that cannot be avoided.
