
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Appendix E to Part 651 - Content of the Environmental Impact Statement
####### Cover sheet.

(1)The cover sheet will not exceed one page (40 CFR 1502.11) and will be accompanied by a signature page for the proponent, designated as preparer; the installation environmental office (or other source of NEPA expertise), designated as reviewer; and the Installation Commander (or other Activity Commander), designated as approver. It will include:

(i) The following statement: "The material contained in the attached (final or draft) EIS is for internal coordination use only and may not be released to non-Department of Defense agencies or individuals until coordination has been completed and the material has been cleared for public release by appropriate authority." This sheet will be removed prior to filing the document with the EPA.

(ii) A list of responsible agencies including the lead agency and any cooperating agency.

(iii) The title of the proposed action that is the subject of the statement and, if appropriate, the titles of related cooperating agency actions, together with state and county (or other jurisdiction as applicable) where the action is located.

(iv) The name, address, and telephone number of the person at the agency who can supply further information, and, as appropriate, the name and title of the major approval authority in the command channel through HQDA staff proponent.

(v) A designation of the statement as a draft, final, or draft or final supplement.

(vi) A one-paragraph abstract of the statement that describes only the need for the proposed action, alternative actions, and the significant environmental consequences of the proposed action and alternatives.

(vii) The date by which comments must be received, computed in cooperation with the EPA.
