
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter V - Department of the Army
#### Subchapter K - Environmental Quality
##### PART 651 - ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF ARMY ACTIONS (AR 200-2)
###### Appendix F to Part 651 - Glossary

Army Acquisition Executive.

Army Acquisition Pollution Prevention Support Office.

Acquisition Category.

Assistant Chief of Staff for Installation Management.

A-weighted day-night levels.

Air Quality Control Region.

Army Regulation.

Army National Guard.

Army Staff.

Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology).

Assistant Secretary of the Army for Financial Management.

Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations and Environment).

Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs).

Cost Analysis Requirements Description.

Council on Environmental Quality.

Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act.

C-Weighted Day-Night Levels.

Code of Federal Regulations.

Continental United States.

Categorical Exclusion.

Department of the Army.

Defense Acquisition Deskbook.

Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health).

Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics.

Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans.

Draft Environmental Impact Statement.

Director of Environmental Programs.

Department of Defense.

Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives.

Deputy for System Acquisition.

Defense Technical Information Center.

Doctrine, Training, Leader Development, Organization, Materiel, and Soldier.

Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and Environment.

Environmental Assessment.

Environmental Baseline Studies.

Environmental Coordinator.

Environmental Compliance Achievement Program.

Environmental Compliance Assessment System.

Engineering Evaluation/Cost Analysis.

Environmental Impact Computer System.

Economic Impact Forecast System.

Environmental Impact Statement.

Environmental Justice.

Explosive Ordnance Demolition.

Environmental Protection Agency.

Environmental Program Requirements.

Environmental Quality Control Committee.

Environment, Safety, and Health.

Federal Aviation Administration.

Final Environmental Impact Statement.

Finding of No Significant Impact.

Federal Register.

Feasibility Study.

Full-Time Permanent.

General Counsel.

Government-Owned, Contractor-Operated.

General Services Administration.

Headquarters, Department of the Army.

Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan.

Integrated Concept Team.

Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan.

Integrated Process Team.

Installation Spill Contingency Plan.

Installation Status Report.

Integrated Training Area Management.

Life Cycle Environmental Documentation.

Major Army Command.

Materiel Developer.

Milestone Decision Authority.

Materiel Fielding Agreement.

Materiel Fielding Plan.

Military Construction.

Mission Needs Statement.

Memorandum of Agreement.

Memorandum of Understanding.

Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.

National Environmental Policy Act.

National Guard Bureau.

National Historic Preservation Act.

Notice of Availability.

Notice of Intent.

National Performance Review.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

Notice of Availability of Weekly Receipts (EPA).

Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs.

Office of the Chief of Legislative Liaison.

Office of the Chief of Public Affairs.

Office of the Director of Environmental Programs.

Officer Foundation Standards.

Office of General Counsel.

Overarching Integrated Process Team.

Operations and Maintenance Army.

Operations and Maintenance Army National Guard.

Operations and Maintenance Army Reserve.

Operations Other Than War.

Operations Security.

Operating Requirements Document.

Office of the Secretary of Defense.

Office of the Surgeon General.

Public Affairs Officer.

Polychlorinated Biphenyls.

Preliminary Draft Environmental Impact Statement.

Program Executive Officer.

Program Manager.

Point of Contact.

Petroleum, Oils, and Lubricants.

Program Planning and Budget Execution System.

Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.

Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation.

Record of Environmental Consideration.

Record of Decision.

Record of Non-Applicability.

Regional Support Command.

Science and Technology.

Secretary of the Army.

Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act.

Stability and Support Operations.

Status of Forces Agreement.

Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plan.

Technical Data Package.

Temporary Duty.

Test and Evaluation Master Plan.

The Judge Advocate General.

Table of Organization Equipment.

U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command.

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

U.S. Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine.

U.S. Army Environmental Center.

United States Code.

A category of actions that do not require an EA or an EIS because Department of the Army (DA) has determined that the actions do not have an individual or cumulative impact on the environment.

This term, as used in this part, will include all documentation necessary to coordinate and staff analyses or present the results of the analyses to the public or decision maker.

A government, regardless of recognition by the United States, political factions, and organizations, that exercises governmental power outside the United States.

Any geographic area (land, water, and airspace) that is under the jurisdiction of one or more foreign governments. It also refers to any area under military occupation by the United States alone or jointly with any other foreign government. Includes any area that is the responsibility of an international organization of governments; also includes contiguous zones and fisheries zones of foreign nations.

Geographical areas outside the jurisdiction of any nation. They include the oceans outside territorial limits and Antarctica. They do not include contiguous zones and fisheries zones of foreign nations.

As the principal planner, implementer, and decision authority for a proposed action, the HQDA proponent is responsible for the substantive review of the environmental documentation and its thorough consideration in the decision-making process.

Reinforces, but does not have a meaning independent of, "significantly affecting the environment," and will be interpreted in that context. A federal proposal with "significant effects" requires an EIS, whether it is "major" or not. Conversely, a "major federal action" without "significant effects" does not necessarily require an EIS.

Personnel from a variety of disciplines who write environmental documentation in clear and analytical prose. They are primarily responsible for the accuracy of the document.

Proponent identification depends on the nature and scope of a proposed action as follows:

(1) Any Army structure may be a proponent. For instance, the installation/activity Facility Engineer (FE)/Director of Public Works becomes the proponent of installation-wide Military Construction Army (MCA) and Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Activity; Commanding General, TRADOC becomes the proponent of a change in initial entry training; and the Program Manager becomes the proponent for a major acquisition program. The proponent may or may not be the preparer.

(2) In general, the proponent is the unit, element, or organization that is responsible for initiating and/or carrying out the proposed action. The proponent has the responsibility to prepare and/or secure funding for preparation of the environmental documentation.

The significance of an action's, program's, or project's effects must be evaluated in light of its context and intensity, as defined in 40 CFR 1508.27.

This part uses the following abbreviations, brevity codes or acronyms not contained in AR 310-50. These include use for electronic publishing media and computer terminology, as follows:

WWW World Wide Web.
