
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.6 Releasing public information material to the media.

(a) Methods of releasing information:

(1) Release at the seat of government and/or as approved by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs).

(i) Overall responsibility for release of information rests with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs). The Chief of Information is responsible for coordinating with him releases of national and international interest (and in the case of audiovisual material of regional interest) and for arranging for local release of such material if considered appropriate by OASD(PA). Information of the above types and also information proposed for release at the seat of government, with the exception of "spot news," as described in paragraph (b) of this section, following.

(2) Releases by local commands:

(i) News of purely local interest may be released by the command concerned. Higher and coordinating authorities (such as the District Commandant) will be informed, when appropriate, that the release has been made.

(ii) News of national or other wide interest may be released by a local command under the following circumstances:

(A) The Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs), having approved a release, directs that it be issued by the command concerned.

(B) An event of immediate and urgent news interest, such as a disasterous accident, occurs at the command, and emergency announcements must be made as delay in issuing information would be against the best interests of the Navy. The officer in command will make a "spot news" release of all appropriate information considered releasable.
