
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.14 Embarkation of media representatives.
####### Communications.

(d)(1) Every effort will be made to provide suitable communication facilities for newsmen embarked (including equipment and personnel, if feasible).

(2) All persons embarked with permission of proper authority and accredited as correspondents are eligible to file press traffic, as authorized by the procedures set forth in Naval Telecommunication Procedures (NTP-9), "Commercial Communications."

(3) Navy radio or wire transmission facilities, where available, may be made available to news media (including accredited civilian photographers) when operational requirements permit, in accordance with instructions set forth by the Director of Naval Communications. This includes making live broadcasts or telecasts. (A live network broadcast or telecast must, however, be approved by the Chief of Information.)

(4) Messages and instructions from editors and station managers to embarked newsmen will be handled as press traffic, as authorized in Naval Telecommunication Procedures (NTP-9).

(5) Stations receiving press circuits will be authorized to receipt for press traffic without asking for time-consuming "repeats."

(6) Under normal circumstances, press copy will be transmitted on a first-come, first-served basis; however, newsmen will be informed that the prerogative of limiting the amount to be filed during any one period rests with the Exercise Commander.

(7) If it becomes necessary for operational reasons for newsmen to pool copy, such messages shall be filed as "multiple address messages" or book messages, as appropriate, or when requested by the newsmen concerned.

(8) If the locale of the exercise permits newsfilm and press mail to be flown ashore, flights should be scheduled on a high priority basis to connect with scheduled commercial air traffic. Operational aircraft as well as scheduled government air flights should be considered for delivery of television news film, radio tapes and photography to the nearest commercial communications facility.
