
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.16 Navy produced public information material.
####### Unofficial photos taken by Navy personnel.

(3)(i) The following regulations apply to Navy civilian employees and to Navy personnel in transit through a command, as well as to active duty personnel assigned to the command.

(ii) Personal cameras and related equipment are permitted on Navy ships, aircraft and stations at the discretion of the officer in command.

(iii) An officer in command may screen all photos taken by naval personnel with personal cameras within the jurisdiction of the command to protect classified information or to acquire photos for official use, including public affairs. Photographs taken by bystanders at times of accident, combat, or similar significant events can be valuable for preparation of official report and public release. They should be collected for screening and review as expeditiously as possible.

(iv) Amateur photographers should also be encouraged to volunteer the use of interesting or significant photos for public affairs use.

(v) Photos made by naval personnel, with either personal cameras and film, Navy equipment and film, or any combination thereof, may be designated "Official Navy Photo" if it is considered in the best interests of the Navy.

(A) All precautions will be taken to protect such film from loss or damage, and all unclassified personal photos not designated as "official" will be returned to the owner immediately after review.

(B) When a photo taken by an individual who is not an official photographer is selected for public affairs release:
