
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.23 Guest cruises.
####### Authority.

(b)(1) Authority to establish procedures for the conduct of the embarkation of guests for public affairs purposes (including the Secretary of the Navy Guest Cruise and Guest of the Navy Cruise programs, which are discussed in ยง 705.24) is vested in the Secretary of the Navy. This authority is limited only insofar as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the commanders of the Unified and Specified Commands (and their component commanders, if so designated) have the authority to use Navy ships to embark individuals other than news media representatives for public affairs purposes.

(i) Public affairs embarkations originating within the geographical limits of the Unified Command will be approved by and coordinated with the commanders of such commands. This authority may be delegated. Requests for such embarkations originating with the subordinate fleet or force command of a Unified Command will be submitted via the operational chain of command, to the appropriate commander of the Unified Command, unless delegated.

(ii) Requests for public affairs embarkations originating from any Navy source other than the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or the Unified and Specified Commanders or their subordinate commands, will be submitted to the Chief of Information, who will effect coordination with the Chief of Naval Operations and/or the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) as appropriate.

(iii) When guests debark in a foreign port which is in the geographic area of a Unified Command other than that in which the cruise originated, the Chief of Information will coordinate travel by obtaining concurrence of all appropriate commanders and the approval of the Chief of Naval Operations, and the Assistant secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) as appropriate.

(2) Officers in command to whom authority to embark guests for public affairs purposes is delegated will make maximum use of this authority.
