
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.23 Guest cruises.
####### General policy.

(a)(1) The embarkation of civilian guests in Navy ships is appropriate in the furtherance of continuing public awareness of the Navy and its mission.

(i) Examples of embarkations for public affairs purposes are (but not limited to): Individuals, community service clubs, civic groups, the Navy League, and trade and professional associations.

(ii) Embarkation of media representatives on assignment is discussed in ยง 705.14.

(iii) Other categories may be established by the Secretary of the Navy, subject to the approval of the Secretary of Defense.

(2) It has also been demonstrated that the occasional embarkation on cruises of families and personal guests of naval personnel has contributed materially to the morale of the family circle and has instilled in each individual a sense of pride in his ship. For further information see OPNAVINST 5720.2G.

(3) Embarkations should be conducted within the framework of regularly scheduled operations; underway periods solely to accommodate guests are not authorized.

(4) Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Fleet, Commander-in-Chief, Atlantic Fleet, Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe, Commander Military Sealift Command (and their subordinate commands if so designated), Chief of Naval Education and Training, and District Commandants may authorize the embarkation of female civilians for daylight cruises. Embarkation of civilians for overnight cruises must be authorized by the Chief of Naval Operations via the Chief of Information.

(5) All guest visits are normally authorized on an unclassified basis.

(6) In all instances, due precautions must be taken for the safety of the guests. (See section 0403, pars. 6(b) and, 6(e), of the Navy Public Affairs Regulations, for procedures to be followed in the case of death of, or injury to, civilians embarked on naval ships.)

(7) For further information on policy, procedures, and eligibility criteria, see OPNAVINST 5720.2G.
