
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.23 Guest cruises.
####### Applicable to both programs.

(iii)(A) Guests will provide their own transportation from home to the ship and return, and must reimburse the Navy for living and incidental expenses while embarked so that the program may be conducted at no additional expense to the government.

(B) Because the number of billets available to accommodate all of the potential guests is limited, the guest's opportunity to communicate his experience to his associates must be considered. For this reason, one of the criteria for selection of guests will be their level of activity in civic, professional, and social organizations. In nominating and selecting guests, effort will be made to ensure that minority citizens are included as appropriate.

(C) Atlantic cruises will be made on ships operating between East Coast ports, or between CONUS and the U.S. Caribbean ports of San Juan, PR, or Charlotte Amalie (St. Thomas), Virgin Islands. Pacific cruises will be made on ships operating between West Coast ports: Between CONUS and ports in Hawaii, Alaska, Mexico or Canada; or between ports within Hawaii or Alaska.

(D) Guests will be informed of security restrictions. Unclassified photography should be permitted on board, as pictures renew guests' feelings of identification with a ship. Guests will be advised of areas, however, where photography is prohibited, and security regulations will be courteously but firmly enforced.

(E) Guests will be billeted in officers quarters and normally subsisted in the wardroom. It is not necessary that guests be assigned individual rooms. Billeting with ship's officers promotes mutual understanding, and guests feel more closely identified with the ship's company. They will be invited to dine at least once in each mess on board, if the length of the cruise permits. Guests will be encouraged to speak freely and mingle with the crew.

(F) Guests will be accorded privileges of the cigar mess commissioned officers mess (open) ashore-with the exception of package store privileges-and the use of ship's or Navy Exchange laundry and tailor shops. Other Navy Exchange privileges will be limited to purchase of items for immediate personal use.

(G) Only emergency medical and dental care will be provided and then only where civilian care is not conveniently available.
