
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.29 Navy Art Collection.

(a) The U.S. Navy has continued to record its military actions, explorations, launchings, etc., in fine art form since before World War II. The present Navy Combat Art Collection contains over 4,000 paintings and sketches. A significant number of new works is being added each year. The combat artists of World War II have been replaced by civilian artists who witness today's Navy in action, record their impressions, and donate their works of art to the Department of the Navy.

(1) The voluntary services of most of the artists are arranged through the Navy Art Cooperation and Liaison Committee (NACAL) which operates in close cooperation with the Salmagundi Club of New York City and the Municipal Art Department of the City of Los Angeles.

(2) The Chief of Information has established liaison with the Salmagundi Club in order to maintain a continuing historical record of the Navy. Organized in 1871, the Salmagundi Club is the oldest club of professional artists in the United States. The Club appointed a Navy Art Cooperation and Liaison (NACAL) Committee to advise the Navy on art matters and to nominate artists for assignment to paint Navy activities through the world. The Chief of Information reviews the nominations, and issues SECNAV invitational travel orders to each artist approved.

(3) The following policy pertains:

(i) All finished art portraying the Navy and produced by Navy artists on active duty for that purpose and by guest artists working under invitational travel orders becomes the property of the Department of the Navy.

(ii) Civilian artists selected to paint Navy life through cooperation of a private sponsor and the Chief of Information may be authorized by the Chief of Information or the Office of the Secretary of Defense to retain their works.

(iii) Paintings, sketches, drawings and other forms of artwork will not be accepted by the Department of the Navy unless all reproduction rights are surrendered and unless they become the permanent property of the Department of the Navy.

(iv) Requests for reproduction of combat art for use in advertising or publication will be directed to the Chief of Information.

(b) Responsibilities:

(1) The Chief of Information exercises supervision and control of the Navy Art Program and issues SECNAV invitational travel orders and letters of invitation to artists selected for assignment.

(2) When directed by the Chief of Information or other appropriate Navy authority, a NACAL project officer will perform the following functions:

(i) Act as a local liaison officer for the NACAL Program.

(ii) Assist NACAL artists on assignments within his area.

(3) The Curator Navy Combat Art Center, in coordination with the Chief of Information, will:

(i) Plan trips for the NACAL Program.

(ii) Approve requests for art displays.

(iii) Provide logistic support for the maintenance, storage, shipment and display of the Navy Combat Art Program.

(c) Requests for art displays should be forwarded to the Director, Community Relations Division, Office of Information, Navy Department, Washington, DC 20350.

(d) Exhibition of Navy Art:

(1) Operation Palette I" is a carefully selected group of 75 to 100 combat art paintings depicting Navy and Marine Corps activities during World War II. The schedule of "Operation Palette I" is promulgated by the Officer-in-Charge, Navy Recruiting Exhibit Center and supervised by the Chief of Information, with the concurrence of District Commandants. Schedules are arranged so that the exhibition travels within a particular Naval District for several months at a time. District Commandants designate project officers for each city where "Operation Palette I" is exhibited. The project officer makes all arrangements, including suitable location, publicity and personnel to assist the chief petty officer who travels with the collection. Promotional kits are provided by the Officer-in-Charge, Navy Recruiting Exhibit Center. Requests for exhibitions are not desired, since the collection always travels on a prearranged tour.

(2) "Operation Palette II" consists of 75 to 100 paintings representative of the worldwide operations of the contemporary Navy and Marine Corps * * * the Navy today * * *, and travels on prearranged tours similar to "Operation Palette I."

(3) Other exhibitions of original paintings from the Combat Art Collection may be scheduled on request by either Navy commands or civilian art groups. Requests should be directed to the Director, Community Relations Division, Office of Information, Navy Department, Washington, DC 20350 and contain the following:

(i) The occasion.

(ii) Inclusive dates. (Not less than 10 days or more than 90 days sub-custody.)

(iii) Expected attendance and type of publicity planned.

(iv) Amount of space allotted.

(v) If Navy-sponsored show, certification that 24-hour security will be provided for the paintings while in custody.

(vi) If civilian-sponsored show, statement that transportation and insurance requirements will be met. (Physical security must be available for exhibit, with an attendant on duty during open hours and locked building or other means of protecting exhibit when closed to the public.)

(e) Navy Combat Art Lithograph Program:

(1) This program makes available full color, high quality lithographs which are faithful reproductions of the original artwork on quality paper of selected works of art from the Navy Art Collection.

(2) Additional information and ordering details are contained in CHINFO NOTICE 5605, which is issued periodically.
