
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.24 Exhibits.

(a) Navy exhibits are representations or collections of naval equipment, models, devices and information and orientation material placed on public display for information purposes before audiences at conventions, conferences, seminars, demonstrations, exhibits, fairs, or similar events. Also included are general purpose displays in public buildings or public locations. Museums also occasionally request a Navy exhibit on a permanent or temporary loan basis.

(1) Exhibits may be displayed in any appropriate location or event (including commercially owned spaces such as shopping centers, malls, etc.) provided it is clearly established that such areas are places the general public frequents and that the exhibit is not for the purpose of drawing the public to that location, and that it is determined that participation is in the best interests of the Department of Defense and the Department of the Navy.

(2) [Reserved]

(b) Exhibits will be used for the following purposes only:

(1) To inform the public of the Navy's mission and operations.

(2) To disseminate technical and scientific information.

(3) To assist recruiting of personnel for Navy military service and for civilian employment in the Department of the Navy.

(c) Exhibit requests and procedures:

(1) Requests for Navy exhibits, other than local exhibits may be forwarded to the Navy Recruiting Exhibit Center via the local Navy recruiter with an information copy to the Chief of Information. The primary mission of the Navy Recruiting Exhibit Center is to support local Navy recruiters. Requests for exhibits for community relations events will be considered favorably only when not in conflict with recruiting requirements.

(i) Requests for exhibits must be submitted well in advance of their proposed dates of use.

(ii) Requests for mobile exhibits requiring tractor-trailer transportation should be forwarded prior to November 15th previous to the year desired. A tour itinerary of mobile exhibits will then be established for the following year.

(iii) The period of time for which an exhibit is authorized will be determined by the nature of the event and the type of exhibit (e.g., equipment from local resources used for a local celebration would normally not be exhibited for more than three days; but, a formal exhibit at an exposition might remain for the duration of the event).

(2) The office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) is the approving authority for Navy exhibits in events of international or national scope, or those requiring major coordination among the Armed Forces, or with other agencies of the Federal Government.

(i) All Navy activities will forward such requests to the Chief of Information for coordination with the OASD (PA).

(ii) Subordinate commands of a Unified Command will forward exhibit requests of the above types to the Unified Commander concerned, via the chain of command.

(3) The official OASD(PA) Request Form for Armed Forces Participation will be used. See Armed Forces Request Form, ยง 705.36.

(4) Requests for exceptions to policy for exhibit displays should be forwarded to the Officer in Charge, Navy Recruiting Exhibit Center.

(5) Policy guidance on costs is defined in ยง 705.19.

(6) Occasionally, a project officer will be assigned to coordinate use of the exhibit with the sponsor.

(i) Project officers are normally commissioned officers, equivalent civilian personnel, local recruiters or reservists, who have been assigned the responsibility of coordinating Service participation in a special event.

(ii) The project officer should establish immediate liaison with the sponsor.

(iii) The project officer should assist in determining the actual location of the exhibit, make arrangements for assembling and disassembling the exhibit material, and supervise these operations.

(iv) The project officer will ensure Navy and Department of Defense policies are followed, and will coordinate local news releases concerning Navy participation.
