
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.32 Aviation events and parachute demonstrations.

(a) Armed Forces aircraft and parachutists may be authorized to participate in appropriate in public events which meet basic Department of Defense criteria. This participation may be one of the officially designated military flight or parachute demonstration teams, flyover by aircraft, a general demonstration of capabilities by aircraft, or the static display of aircraft.

(b) Events which are appropriate for aviation participation include: Dedication of airports; aviation shows; aircraft exposition; air fairs; recruiting programs; civic events which contribute to the public knowledge of naval aviation equipment and capabilities and to the advancement of general aviation; public observances of certain national holidays (Armed Forces Day, Veterans Day, Memorial Day and Independence Day); national conventions of major veterans organizations; memorial services for deceased, nationally recognized dignitaries; and receptions for foreign dignitaries.

(c) Support of Armed Forces recruiting is the primary purpose of military flight and parachute demonstration teams. Armed Forces recruiting teams are available to assist sponsors in coordinating advance publicity and information coverage to insure maximum exposure for the demonstration team and the event. This assistence is at no additional expense to the sponsor; however, the sponsor is required to give full support to the recruiting effort and to cooperate fully with local service officials. Such support could include (but is not limited to) the provision of prime space for recruiters at the event site and the provision of courtesy passes in controlled quantities to recruiters for the purpose of bringing recruit prospects and recruiting advisors to view the show.

(d) DOD support of air show fund raising efforts in the form of provision of military flight and parachute demonstration teams is limited to charities recognized by the Federal Services Fund-Raising Program. These include such agencies as the United Givers Fund, Community Chests, National Health Agencies (as a group), International Service Agencies and the military aid societies. Armed Forces support to fund-raising events for a single cause, even though the charity is a member of a federated or joint campaign or donates in part to one or several of the campaigns, is inconsistent with the basic position of Department of Defense. The name of the nearest Combined Federal Campaign coordinator will be supplied to the sponsor, or if he chooses, he might elect to work with the local United Givers Fund (Community Chest). As a minimum, the sponsor must agree to provide at least half of the profit above costs to the Combined Federal or United Givers Campaigns to receive Armed Forces support.
