
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.32 Aviation events and parachute demonstrations.
####### Other information.

(i)(1) Flight and/or parachute team demonstrations are restricted to appropriate events at airports, over open bodies of water, or over suitable open areas of land. For the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds or U.S. Navy Blue Angels to operate from an airport show site, the following operational requirements must be met:

(i) Minimum useable runway length for the Thunderbirds is 5000 feet by 150 feet in width.

(ii) Minimum useable runway length for the Blue Angels is 6000 feet by 150 feet in width.

(iii) Minimum single landing gear load bearing capacity for Thunderbirds is 45,000 pounds; for Blue Angels, 21,000 pounds. Tandem landing gear load bearing capacity is 155,000 pounds for Blue Angels and Thunderbirds.

(2) A staged performance may not be given if the location planned for the show site does not meet these minimums. The maximum distance for a staged performance" under normal conditions is 50 nautical miles. It should be noted that staged performances are seldom authorized since the recruiting potential is reduced at such events.

(3) The type and number of static and/or flyover aircraft which may be assigned is entirely dependent upon the Military Services' capability to provide such resources at the time of your event. This capability is affected by operational commitments and sponsors are advised that confirmation of static/flyover aircraft cannot be made by the appropriate Service more than 15-30 days before your event.

(4) The U.S. Army Silver Eagles are normally restricted to performances at airports. Other open land areas may be operationally suitable but require the prior approval of the team commander in each case.

(5) Only one flight demonstration team and a parachute demonstration team may be authorized for any one event. Military aircraft demonstrations may not be authorized for events on the days a flight team is participating. A flyover is not authorized when a flight team is participating unless it can be provided by a locally-based National Guard or Reserve component.

(6) Participation by the U.S. Navy Blue Angels and the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds is normally limited to two consecutive years in any one event. This usually involves one appearance by each of the two flight teams. This provision may be waived when other appropriate requests have not been received, when the team is performing in the same geographical area and has open dates or when the event is national or international in nature and participation would be in the best interests of Department of Defense. Participation in an event is normally limited to two days unless a third day can be included without preempting other requests.

(7) Sponsors are required to obtain a Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) waiver for any demonstration by military aircraft and/or parachutists in the public domain. The final authorization for such Armed Forces participation hinges upon the sponsor securing this waiver far enough in advance to permit adequate planning (normally not later than 60 days prior to the event). Further guidance on the details of obtaining this waiver will be contained in the team support packet or FAA. FAA regulations require that spectators be confined 1500 feet from a flight or aircraft demonstration and 250 feet from a parachute demonstration.

(i) In some cases, parachute demonstrations require that the sponsor arrange for appropriate transportation for the team and equipment from its home station to the event and return.

(ii) Mass parachute jumps, drops of equipment, assault aircraft demonstrations, or tactical helicopter troop landings under simulated tactical conditions, will be limited to military installations. These activities, except those scheduled as part of regular training programs, are not authorized for public events in the civil domain.

(8) When civilian air racing is involved in an event where Armed Forces participation has also been scheduled, prize monies must come from sources other than admission charges.

(9) Flight team, parachute and aircraft demonstrations also require that the sponsor provide: (i) Recent aerial photograph of the site; (ii) an ambulance and doctor at the site; and (iii) Guards for the Armed Forces aircraft during their entire stay. The aerial photograph should be recent, taken vertically from at least 5,000 feet.

(10) Maximum advantage of Armed Forces recruiting will be taken at appropriate events in the public domain where demonstrations by military aircraft and parachutists have been authorized.

(11) Exception to the policies contained herein will only be considered by OASD(PA) on events of national or international significance.

(12) Department of Defense hosts a scheduling conference in mid-December each year to prepare U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds, U.S. Navy Blue Angels, U.S. Army Golden Knights and U.S. Army Silver Eagles participation schedules for the ensuing year. All requests for such demonstrations from sponsors should reach OASD(PA) prior to the middle of November each year to be considered at this conference. In order to accommodate many requests Department of Defense receives for other parachuting demonstrations, aircraft demonstrations, static aircraft displays, and flyovers, each request must be received by OASD(PA) a minimum of 30 days in advance of the event and preferably 60 days in advance.

(13) If there are any points that a member of the public might wish to have clarified, contact Chief, Aerial Events Branch, OASD(PA), Room 1E790, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301. Telephone: AC (202) 695-6795 or 695-9900.
