
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.32 Aviation events and parachute demonstrations.
####### Definitions.,i.e.

(f)A flight team demonstration is an exhibition of precision aerial maneuvers flown by the official Department of Defense military flight demonstration teams, the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds, the U.S. Navy Blue Angels and the U.S. Army Silver Eagles. An aircraft demonstration is a flight demonstration by aircraft other than those of the teams listed above and designed to portray tactical capabilities of aircraft by a single aircraft (, the U.S. Marine Corps "Harrier") or group of aircraft, including air-to-air refueling, helicopter hover and pick-up or rappelling capabilities, Low Altitude Parachute Extraction System, maximum performance take-off, etc. A parachute demonstration is an exhibition of free-fall and precision landing techniques by the official DOD parachute team, the U.S. Army Golden Knights. Other parachute demonstrations can be performed by the U.S. Navy Parachute Team, or another unofficial team or sports parachute club representing the Department of Defense. A flyover is a flight of not more than four aircraft over a fixed point at a specific time and does not involve precision maneuvers or demonstrations. Flyovers are authorized for certain events when the presence of Armed Forces aircraft overhead would contribute to the effectiveness of the event based on a direct correlation between the event and the aircraft. Flyovers can also be authorized for occasions primarily designed to encourage the advancement of aviation and which are of more than local interest. Flyovers by any of the official DOD flight teams are not authorized. Parades are not considered an appropriate event for authorizing flyover support. The static display of aircraft is the ground display of any military aircraft and its related equipment, not involving flight, taxiing or starting of engines.

(g) Events which are appropriate for Armed Forces aviation participation in the public domain include such activities as dedication of airports and facilities, aviation shows, expositions, and fairs; and other civic events which contribute to the public knowledge of the U.S. Military Services aviation equipment and capabilities. The number one priority for utilization of military aircraft and parachutists in such events in the public domain is to support the recruiting aspects of the all-volunteer force concept. The approval of any such military demonstration will only be authorized if a maximum recruiting benefit exists at each location.
