
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.36 Government transportation of civilians for public affairs purposes.
####### General policy.

(a)(1) Regulations on transportation of civilians vary according to whether:

(i) The civilians are news media representatives or not.

(ii) The travel is local or nonlocal (see paragraph (b) of this section).

(iii) The purpose of the travel is to get to a desired destination or is to observe the Navy at first hand.

(2) Authority for embarkation of individuals in naval vessels and military aircraft is vested in the Chief of Naval Operations by ยง 700.710 of this chapter. Nothing in this part shall be construed as limiting his authority in this regard.

(3) The following policy has been established by DOD for providing all types of Navy transportation to non-Navy civilians.

(i) Military transport facilities shall not be placed in a position of competition with U.S. commercial carriers.

(A) When embarkation of a newsman is necessary for him to obtain news material about a ship, aircraft, cargo or embarked personnel, or when he is invited to report on a matter of special interest to the Navy, it is not considered that the transportation furnished him is in competition with commercial transport.

(B) An exception is also made for short trips between an airport (or other transportation center) and the command. Cars and buses within the resources of the command may be used for meeting guests or taking them to make their travel connections.

(ii) When authorization is requested for travel which is of interest to or will affect more than one command or Service, the approving authority will coordinate the request with all other interested commands, Services and Agencies.

(iii) Travel in connection with any public affairs program arranged by the Navy jointly with another Federal Department or Agency or a foreign government will be authorized only by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs, or those to whom he has delegated this authority. Navy commands desiring authorization of such travel will forward the request to the Chief of Information.

(iv) If a request for travel for nonlocal public affairs purposes is disapproved, sufficient reasons should be provided so that the action is clearly understood by the individual or group concerned.
