
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.36 Government transportation of civilians for public affairs purposes.
####### Special programs.

(e)(1) Cruises are discussed in Chapter 6, section 0604, para. 1 of the Navy Public Affairs Regulations.

(2) Embarkation of news media representatives, especially on operations and exercises, is discussed in Chapter 4, section 0405, paragraph 4 of the Navy Public Affairs Regulations.

(3) Other programs subject to special requirements or which have had exceptions authorized for them include:

(i) Naval Air Training Command Civilian Orientation Cruise Program, conducted by the Chief of Naval Air Training.

(ii) Joint Civilian Orientation Conference, conducted by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs).

(iii) Orientation flights in government aircraft, conducted in accordance with OPNAVINST 37107H.

(iv) Space-available air transportation may be provided Navy League members if they are invited to accompany a flag officer attending a Navy League convention or regional meeting and if the trip is economically justifiable, based on military travel considerations and not community relations or public affairs reasons. Approval in each instance will be obtained in advance from the Chief of Naval Operations.

(v) Air transportation for the Naval Sea Cadet Corps of the Navy League.

(A) Flights must be in Navy multiengine, transport type craft.

(B) Point-to-point flights on a space-required basis are governed by an annual quota set by the Chief of Naval Operations. Space-available transportation is authorized and will not be charged against this quota if it will not result in delays of takeoffs or a change in the itinerary planned for the primary mission.

(C) Flights must not interfere with operational commitments or training or results in additional expense to the government.

(D) This transportation is not available to other youth programs, including others sponsored by the Navy League.
