
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.36 Government transportation of civilians for public affairs purposes.
####### Travel in ships of the Military Sealift Command.

(7)Correspondents may be carried in ships of the Military Sealift Command on either a space-required or space-available basis when travel is in the best interests of the Navy or the Department of Defense.

(i) Space-available travel will be used when practicable. A nominal charge is made by the Military Sealift Command and must be borne by the correspondents.

(ii) Space-required travel may be authorized when sufficiently in the interest of the Navy, and the charge may be borne by the Navy.

(iii) In either case, determination of Navy interests will be made by the Chief of Information, guided by the transportation policy of the Chief of Naval Operations, whose approval of such embarkation is required.

(iv) Requests for such travel will be submitted to the Chief of Information, who will coordinate with the Chief of Naval Operations and/or the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs), as appropriate.

(8) Point to point transportation within the continental United States in naval aircraft other than those operated by the Military Airlift Command.

(i) SECNAVINST 4630.2A contains guidance for travel in military aircraft other than those operated by the Military Airlift Command.

(ii) Naval activities desiring to arrange such transportation will address requests via the chain of command to the operational command of the lowest echelon which has been delegated authority to approve such requests.

(iii) Upon approval of such a request, the naval activity sponsoring the correspondent shall:

(A) Prepare travel orders.

(B) Ensure that any waiver forms, as may be required by governing directives, are executed.

(9) Embarkation of news media representatives of foreign citizenship:

(i) Requests from foreign news media representatives to cruise with units of the U.S. Navy are usually made to the nearest U.S. military installation known to the correspondent, and are often not made in the proper chain of command to the Fleet Commander unless authorized to effect arrangements for an underway cruise.

(A) if the request is received by a command which is not a subordinate of the Fleet Commander concerned, it will be forwarded to the U.S. Naval Attache assigned to the foreign newsman's country. The Attache will then forward the request to the appropriate Fleet Commander, with his recommendations and the result of a brief background check on the newsman and his employer.

(B) If the request is received by a subordinate of the appropriate Fleet Commander, it may be forwarded directly to the latter, but the U.S. Naval Attache in the newsman's country will be given the opportunity to comment on the proposed embarkation.
