
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.37 Public affairs and public service awards.
####### Chief of Information awards,Certificate of Public Relations Achievement.

(d)-(1)(i) This certificate is signed by the Chief of Information. It honors individuals who are not Navy employees, corporations, or associations.

(ii) It was established to fill the need for a civilian award for public relations achievements which, while not meeting the criteria for public service awards presented by the Secretary of the Navy, are of such Navy-wide significance as to merit recognition at the Department level. Examples of these achievements might be a particularly well done feature article about the Navy in a nationally read newspaper or an outstanding contribution to a locally sponsored event, which ultimately gave national or regional recognition to the Navy.

(iii) The achievement for which the certificate is given shall meet the following criteria:

(A) Contribute to accomplishment of the public information objectives of the Navy.

(B) Be the result of a single outstanding project or program.

(C) Have been accomplished within one year of the date of the official letter of nomination.

(iv) Nominations will be submitted through appropriate administrative channels to the Chief of Information, and will include a description of the service rendered, a statement of its relevance to the accomplishment of the public affairs objectives of the Navy and a draft of the recommended citation. To avoid possible embarrassment, nominations shall be marked "For Official Use Only" and safeguarded until final action has been taken.
