
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 719 - REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
###### Subpart C - Trial Matters
####### ยง 719.112 Authority to grant immunity from prosecution.
######## Post-testimony procedure.

(f)After a witness immunized in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section has testified, the following information should be provided to the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Immunity Unit, Washington, DC 20530, via the Judge Advocate General (Code 20).

(1) Name, citation, or other identifying information, of the proceeding in which the order was requested.

(2) Date of the examination of the witness.

(3) Name and residence address of the witness.

(4) Whether the witness invoked the privilege.

(5) Whether the immunity order was used.

(6) Whether the witness testified pursuant to the order.

(7) If the witness refused to comply with the order, whether contempt proceedings were instituted, or are contemplated, and the result of the contempt proceeding, if concluded. A verbatim transcript of the witness' testimony, authenticated by the military judge, should be provided to the Judge Advocate General at the conclusion of the trial. No testimony or other information given by a civilian witness pursuant to such an order to testify (or any information directly or indirectly derived from such testimony or other information) may be used against him in any criminal case, except a prosecution for perjury, giving a false statement, or otherwise failing to comply with the order.
