
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 719 - REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
###### Subpart C - Trial Matters
####### ยง 719.112 Authority to grant immunity from prosecution.
######## Content of immunity requests.

(e)In all cases in which approval of the Attorney General of the United States is required prior to the issuance of a grant of immunity, whether under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the cognizant officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction shall forward by message or letter the proposed order to testify and grant of immunity to the Judge Advocate General (Code 20). The order to testify should be substantially in the form set forth in appendix A-1-i(3) of the Manual of the Judge Advocate General. Requests for assistance shall be in writing, should allow at least three weeks for consideration, and must contain the following information:

(1) Name, citation, or other identifying information of the proceeding in which the order is to be used.

(2) Name of the witness for whom the immunity is requested.

(3) Name of the employer or company with which a witness is associated or the military unit or organization to which a witness is assigned.

(4) Date and place of birth, if known, of the witness.

(5) FBI or local police file number, if any, and if known.

(6) Whether any State or Federal charges are pending against the witness and the nature of the charges.

(7) Whether the witness is currently incarcerated, under what conditions, and for what length of time.

(8) A brief resume of the background of the investigation or proceeding before the agency or department.

(9) A concise statement of the reasons for the request, including:

(i) What testimony the witness is expected to give;

(ii) How this testimony will serve the public interest;

(iii) Whether the witness:

(A) Has invoked the privilege against self-incrimination; or

(B) Is likely to invoke the privilege;

(iv) If paragraph (e)(9)(iii)(B) of this section is applicable, then why it is anticipated that the prospective witness will invoke the privilege.

(10) An estimate as to whether the witness is likely to testify in the event immunity is granted.
