
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 719 - REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
###### Subpart C - Trial Matters
####### ยง 719.112 Authority to grant immunity from prosecution.
######## General.

(a)In certain cases involving more than one participant, the interests of justice may make it advisable to grant immunity, either transactional or testimonial, to one or more of the participants in the offense in consideration for their testifying for the Government or the defense in the investigation and/or the trial of the principal offender. Transactional immunity, as that term is used in this section, shall mean immunity from prosecution for any offense or offenses to which the compelled testimony relates. Testimonial immunity, as that term is used in this section, shall mean immunity from the use, in aid of future prosecution, of testimony or other information compelled under an order to testify (or any information directly or indirectly derived from such testimony or other information). The authority to grant either transactional or testimonial immunity to a witness is reserved to officers exercising general court-martial jurisdiction. This authority may be exercised in any case whether or not formal charges have been preferred and whether or not the matter has been referred for trial. The approval of the Attorney General of the United States on certain orders to testify may be required, as outlined below.
