
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter A - United States Navy Regulations and Official Records
##### PART 705 - PUBLIC AFFAIRS REGULATIONS
###### ยง 705.37 Public affairs and public service awards.
####### Navy League Awards.

(iv)Several annual awards are presented to naval personnel and civilians who have made a notable contribution to the importance of seapower. The awards are for inspirational leadership, scientific and technical progess, operational competence, literary achievement, etc. Nominations should be forwarded directly to Board of Awards, Navy League of the United States, 818 18th St., NW., Washington, DC 20006.

(v) Nonofficial awards to outstanding Navy students or training units.

(A) Various civilian organizations and private individuals have established awards to be presented to outstanding training units or naval students.

(B) Requests to establish an award for students in the Naval Air Training program should be forwarded to the Chief of Naval Air Training.

(C) Requests to establish an award which will involve more than one school (other than the Naval Air Training Program) will be forwarded to the Chief of Naval Personnel.

(D) All other cases may be decided by the Navy authority at the school concerned.

(E) Directives in the 5061, 1650 and 3590 series issued by pertinent authorities may provide further guidance in individual cases.

(vi) Awards established by a command to honor non-Navy civilians.

(A) Examples of such awards are "Good Neighbor" or "Honorary Crew Member" certificates.

(B) Established to honor persons who have been helpful to the command, they are a valuable community relations program. They should not be awarded to persons or organizations with which the command is associated in a commercial or governmental business capacity.
