
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 719 - REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
###### Subpart C - Trial Matters
####### ยง 719.115 Release of information pertaining to accused persons; spectators at judicial sessions.
######## Information subject to release.

(4)On inquiry, the following information concerning a person accused or suspected of an offense or offenses may generally be released except as provided in paragraph (6) of this section:

(i) The accused's name, grade, age, unit, regularly assigned duties, duty station, and sex.

(ii) The substance of the offenses of which the individual is accused or suspected.

(iii) The identity of the victim of any alleged or suspected offense, except the victim of a sexual offense.

(iv) The identity of the apprehending and investigative agency, and the identity of accused's counsel, if any.

(v) The factual circumstances immediately surrounding the apprehension of the accused, including the time and place of apprehension, resistance, pursuit, and use of weapons.

(vi) The type and place of custody, if any.

(vii) Information which has become a part of the record of proceedings of the court-martial in open session.

(viii) The scheduling of any stage in the judicial process.

(ix) The denial by the accused of any offense or offenses of which he may be accused or suspected (when release of such information is approved by the counsel of the accused).
