
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 719 - REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
###### Subpart C - Trial Matters
####### ยง 719.115 Release of information pertaining to accused persons; spectators at judicial sessions.
######## Prohibited information.

(5)The following information concerning a person accused or suspected of an offense or offenses generally may not be released, except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.

(i) Subjective opinions, observations, or comments concerning the accused's character, demeanor at any time (except as authorized in paragraph (4)(v) of this section), or guilt of the offense or offenses involved.

(ii) The prior criminal record (including other apprehensions, charges or trials) or the character or reputation of the accused.

(iii) The existence or contents of any confession, admission, statement, or alibi given by the accused, or the refusal or failure of the accused to make any statement.

(iv) The performance of any examination or test, such as polygraph examinations, chemical tests, ballistics tests, etc., or the refusal or the failure of the accused to submit to an examination or test.

(v) The identity, testimony, or credibility of possible witnesses, except as authorized in paragraph (4)(iii), of this section.

(vi) The possibility of a plea of guilty to any offense charged or to a lesser offense and any negotiation or any offer to negotiate respecting a plea of guilty.

(vii) References to confidential sources or investigative techniques or procedures.

(viii) Any other matter when there is a reasonable likelihood that the dissemination of such matter will affect the deliberations of an investigative body or the findings or sentence of a court-martial or otherwise prejudice the due administration of military justice either before, during, or after trial.
