
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 719 - REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
###### Subpart E - Miscellaneous Matters
####### ยง 719.138 Fees of civilian witnesses.
######## Expert witnesses.

(k)(1) The convening authority will authorize the employment of an expert witness and will fix the limit of compensation to be paid such expert on the basis of the normal compensation paid by United States attorneys for attendance of a witness of such standing in United States courts in the area involved. Information concerning such normal compensation may be obtained from the nearest officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction having a judge advocate assigned in other than an additional duty, temporary duty, or temporary additional duty capacity. Convening authorities at overseas commands will adhere to fees paid such witnesses in the Hawaiian area and may obtain information as to the limit of such fees from the Commander, Naval Base, Pearl Harbor. See paragraph (l) of this section for fees payable to foreign nationals.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (i) of this section are applicable to expert witnesses. However, the expert witness fee prescribed by the convening authority will be paid in lieu of ordinary attendance fees on those days the witness is required to attend the court.

(3) An expert witness employed in strict accordance with MCM, 1984, R.C.M. 703(d), may be paid compensation at the rate prescribed in advance by the official empowered to authorize his employment (11 Comp. Gen. 504). In the absence of such authorization, no fees other than ordinary witness fees may be paid for the employment of an individual as an expert witness. After an expert witness has testified pursuant to such employment, the certificate of one of the officers listed in subsection a above, when presented to the disbursing officer, shall also enclose a certified copy of the authorization of the convening authority.

(l) Payment of witness fees to foreign nationals: Officers exercising general court-martial jurisdiction in areas other than a State of the United States shall establish rates of compensation for payment of foreign nationals who testify as witnesses, including expert witnesses, at courts-martial convened in such areas.
