
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 719 - REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENTING THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
###### Subpart E - Miscellaneous Matters
####### ยง 719.142 Suspension of counsel.
######## Grounds justifying suspension of counsel or suspension or decertification of a Judge Advocate.

(d)(1) Suspension or decertification is to be employed only after it has been established that a counsel has been unable to discharge properly all the duties of his or her office by reason of mental or physical disability or has been engaged in professional or personal misconduct of such a serious nature as to demonstrate that he or she is lacking in integrity or is failing to meet the ethical standards of the profession or is otherwise unworthy or unqualified to perform the duties of a counsel Action to suspend or decertify should not be initiated because of personal prejudice or hostility toward counsel, nor should such action be initiated because counsel has initiated an aggressive, zealous or novel defense, or the apparent misconduct stems from inexperience or lack of instruction.

(2) Specific grounds for suspension or decertification include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Demonstrated incompetence while acting as counsel before, during or after a court-martial.

(ii) Preventing or obstructing justice, including the deliberate use of frivolous or unwarranted dilatory tactics.

(iii) Fabricating papers or other evidence.

(iv) Tampering with a witness.

(v) Abusive conduct toward the court-martial, the Navy-Marine Corps Court of Military Review, the military judge, or opposing counsel.

(vi) Flagrant or repeated violations of any specific rules of conduct prescribed for counsel in the Manual for Courts-Martial.

(vii) Conviction of an offense involving moral turpitude or conviction for violation of article 48, UCMJ.

(viii) Disbarment by a State Bar, Federal Court, or the United States Court of Military Appeals.

(ix) Suspension as counsel by the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, Army, or Air Force or the General Counsel of the Department of Transportation.
