
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 720 - DELIVERY OF PERSONNEL; SERVICE OF PROCESS AND SUBPOENAS; PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
###### Subpart A - Delivery of Personnel
####### ยง 720.3 Delivery when persons are beyond territorial limits of the requesting State.
######## Waiver of extradition.

(b)(1) Any member may waive formal extradition. A waiver must be in writing and be witnessed. It must include a statement that the member signing it has received counsel of either a military or civilian attorney prior to executing the waiver, and it must further set forth the name and address of the attorney consulted.

(2) In every case where there is any doubt as to the voluntary nature of a waiver, such doubt shall be resolved against its use and all persons concerned will be advised to comply with the procedures set forth in ยง 720.3(c).

(3) Executed copies of all waivers will be mailed to the Judge Advocate General immediately after their execution.

(4) When a member declines to waive extradition, the nearest Naval Legal Service Office or Marine Corps staff judge advocate shall be informed and shall confer with the civil authorities as appropriate. The member concerned shall not be transferred or ordered out of the State in which he is then located without the permission of the Secretary of the Navy (Judge Advocate General), unless a fugitive warrant is obtained as set forth in ยง 720.3(c).
