
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 720 - DELIVERY OF PERSONNEL; SERVICE OF PROCESS AND SUBPOENAS; PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
###### Subpart A - Delivery of Personnel
####### § 720.2 Delivery when persons are within the territorial limits of the requesting State.

When the delivery of any member or civilian is requested by local civil authorities of a State for an offense punishable under the laws of that jurisdiction, and such person is located at a Navy or Marine Corps installation within the requesting jurisdiction, or aboard a ship within the territorial waters of such jurisdiction, commanding officers are authorized to and normally will deliver such person when a proper warrant is issued. In the case of a member, delivery will only be effected upon compliance with § 720.6, subject to the exceptions in § 720.9. A judge advocate of the Navy or Marine Corps should be consulted before delivery is effected. The rule discussed above applies equally to civilian employees and civilian contractors and their employees when located on a Navy or Marine Corps installation, except that compliance with § 720.6 and consideration of § 720.9 are not required (for purposes of this part, "State" includes the District of Columbia, territories, commonwealths, and all possessions or protectorates of the United States). Commands should normally not become actively involved in civilian law enforcement. When a command has determined that a person is to be delivered in response to a valid warrant, the following guidance should be considered. If the person to be delivered is a military member, the member may be ordered to report to a location designated by the commanding officer and surrendered to civil authorities under Article 14, UCMJ (10 U.S.C. 814). If the person to be delivered is a civilian, the person may be invited to report to the designated space for delivery. If the civilian refuses, the civilian authorities may be escorted to a place where the civilian is located in order that delivery may be effected. A civilian may be directed to leave a classified area. All should be done with minimum interference to good order and discipline.
