
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 720 - DELIVERY OF PERSONNEL; SERVICE OF PROCESS AND SUBPOENAS; PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
###### Subpart A - Delivery of Personnel
####### § 720.3 Delivery when persons are beyond territorial limits of the requesting State.
######## Fugitive warrants.

(c)(1) A fugitive warrant, as used in this chapter, is a warrant issued by a State court of competent jurisdiction for the arrest of a member. Normally, a State requesting delivery of a member from another State will issue a fugitive warrant to the State where the member is then located.

(2) Upon issuance of a fugitive warrant by the requesting State to the State in which the member is located, the latter State will normally request delivery of the member to local State authorities. Delivery to local State authorities should be arranged by Navy or Marine Corps officers designated in § 720.3(a), upon compliance with the provisions of § 720.6, and subject to the conditions of §§ 720.9 and 720.3(c) (3) and (4).

(3) Upon receipt of a request for delivery of a member under fugitive warrant to State authorities, if the member voluntarily waives extradition, the provisions of § 720.3(b) apply. If the member is delivered to local authorities but refuses to waive extradition in the courts of the State in which he is located.

(4) No delivery of a member by Navy or Marine Corps officers pursuant to a fugitive warrant or waiver of extradition shall be effected without completion of the agreement required by § 720.6 and execution of such agreement either:

(i) By authorities of both the requesting State and the State in which the member is located, or

(ii) By authorities of the State in which the member is located if such authorities, on behalf of the requesting State, accept the full responsibility for returning the number to a command designated by the Department of the Navy.
