
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 720 - DELIVERY OF PERSONNEL; SERVICE OF PROCESS AND SUBPOENAS; PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
###### Subpart B - Service of Process and Subpoenas Upon Personnel
####### ยง 720.20 Service of process upon personnel.
######## Service of process arising from official duties.

(b)(1) Whenever a member or civilian employee of the Department of the Navy is served with process because of his official position, the Judge Advocate General or the Associate General Counsel (Litigation), as appropriate, shall be notified by telephone, or by message if telephone is impractical. Notification shall be confirmed by a letter report by the nearest appropriate command. The letter report shall include the detailed facts which give rise to the action.

(2) Any member or civilian employee served with Federal or State court civil or criminal process or pleadings (including traffic tickets) arising from actions performed in the course of official duties shall immediately deliver all such process and pleadings to the commanding officer. The commanding officer shall ascertain the pertinent facts and notify the Judge Advocate General or Associate General Counsel (Litigation), as appropriate, by telephone or by message if telephone is impractical, of the service and immediately forward the pleadings and process to the relevant office. The member or civilian employee will be advised of the right to remove civil or criminal proceedings from State to Federal court under 28 U.S.C. 1442, 1442a, rights under the Federal Employees Liability Reform and Tort Compensation Act (28 U.S.C. 2679b), if applicable, and the right of a Federal employee to request representation by Department of Justice attorneys in Federal (civil) or State (civil or criminal) proceedings and in congressional proceedings in which that person is sued in an individual capacity, as delineated in 28 CFR 50.15. Requests for representation shall be addressed to the Judge Advocate General or Associate General Counsel (Litigation), as appropriate, and shall be endorsed by the commanding officer, who shall provide all necessary data relating to the questions of whether the person was acting within the course of official duty or scope of employment at the time of the incident out of which the suit arose.

(3) If the service of process involves a potential claim against the Government, see 32 CFR 750.12(a), 750.12(b), and 750.24. The right to remove to Federal Court under 28 U.S.C. 1442 and 1442a must be considered where the outcome of the State court action may influence a claim or potential claim against the United States. Questions should be directed to the Judge Advocate General or the Associate General Counsel (Litigation).
