
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart A - Family Advocacy Program (FAP)
####### ยง 61.4 Policy.
######## http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/640006p.pdf

(b) Provide adult victims of domestic abuse with the option of making restricted reports to domestic abuse victim advocates and to healthcare providers in accordance with DoD Instruction 6400.06, "Domestic Abuse Involving DoD Military and Certain Affiliated Personnel" (available at).

(c) Promote early identification; reporting options; and coordinated, comprehensive intervention, assessment, and support to:

(1) Victims of suspected child abuse, including victims of extra-familial child abuse.

(2) Victims of domestic abuse.

(d) Provide assessment, rehabilitation, and treatment, including comprehensive abuser intervention.

(e) Provide appropriate resource and referral information to persons who are not covered by this subpart, who are victims of alleged child abuse or domestic abuse.

(f) Cooperate with responsible federal and civilian authorities and organizations in efforts to address the problems to which this subpart applies.

(g) Ensure that personally identifiable information (PII) collected in the course of FAP activities is safeguarded to prevent any unauthorized use or disclosure and that the collection, use, and release of PII is in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552a.

(h) Develop program standards (PSs) and critical procedures for the FAP that reflect a coordinated community risk management approach to child abuse and domestic abuse.

(i) Provide appropriate individualized and rehabilitative treatment that supplements administrative or disciplinary action, as appropriate, to persons reported to FAP as domestic abusers.

(j) Maintain a central child abuse and domestic abuse database to:

(1) Analyze the scope of child abuse and domestic abuse, types of abuse, and information about victims and alleged abusers to identify emerging trends, and develop changes in policy to address child abuse and domestic abuse.
