
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 720 - DELIVERY OF PERSONNEL; SERVICE OF PROCESS AND SUBPOENAS; PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
###### Subpart D - Compliance With Court Orders by Department of the Navy Members, Employees, and Family Members Outside the United States
####### ยง 720.42 Policy.

(a) It is Department of the Navy policy to cooperate, as prescribed in this instruction, with courts and federal, state and local officials in enforcing court orders. The Department of the Navy will cooperate with requests when such action is consistent with mission requirements (including operational readiness), the provisions of applicable international agreements, and ongoing Department of Defense (DoD) investigations and courts-martial.

(b) Every reasonable effort will be made to resolve the matter without the respondent returning to the United States, or other action being taken against the respondent under this instruction.

(c) Requests to return members for felonies or for contempt involving unlawful or contemptuous removal of a child from the jurisdiction of a court or the custody of a parent or other person awarded custody by a court order will normally be granted, but only if the member cannot resolve the issue with the court without return to the United States. When the member's return is inconsistent with mission requirements, applicable international agreements, or ongoing DoD investigations or courts-martial, DoD approval of denial will be requested.

(d) For all other requests involving members, return will be based on the circumstances of the individual case as provided in this instruction.

(e) Members will normally be returned on a temporary additional duty (TAD) basis unless there are compelling reasons the return should be a permanent change of duty station (PCS).

(f) The involuntary return of employees or family members in response to a request for return is not authorized. However, the following action will be taken:

(1) Employees will be strongly urged to comply with court orders. Failure to comply with court orders involving felonies or contempt involving unlawful or contemptuous removal of a child from the jurisdiction of the court or the custody of a parent or other person awarded custody by a court order will normally require processing for adverse action, up to and including removal from federal service. Failure to comply with other court orders may require adverse action, depending on the circumstances of the individual case.

(2) Family members will be strongly encouraged to comply with court orders. Family members who fail to comply with court orders involving felonies or contempt involving unlawful or contemptuous removal of a child from the jurisdiction of the court or the custody of a parent or other person awarded custody by a court order will normally have their command sponsorship removed. Failure to comply with other court orders may also result in removal of command sponsorship, depending on the circumstances of the individual case.

(g) To facilitate prompt resolution of requests for return of members, minimize the burden on operating units, and to provide consistency during initial implementation of this new program, a limited number of responsible officials, designated in ยง 720.44, will respond to requesting officials.
