
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 720 - DELIVERY OF PERSONNEL; SERVICE OF PROCESS AND SUBPOENAS; PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS
###### Subpart D - Compliance With Court Orders by Department of the Navy Members, Employees, and Family Members Outside the United States
####### § 720.44 Responsible officials.

The following officials are designated responsible officials for acting on requests to return or to take other action affecting members, employees or family members to the United States.

(a) The Chief of Naval Personnel (CHNAVPERS) for requests involving Navy members and their family members who are not employees. The CHNAVPERS may delegate this authority within his headquarters, not below the 0-6 level for routine matters and not lower than the flag officer level for decisions to deny the request for return.

(b) The Commandant of the Marine Corps (CMC) for requests involving Marine Corps members and their family members who are not employees. The CMC may delegate this authority within his headquarters, not below the 0-6 level for routine matters and no lower that the general officer level for decisions to deny the request for return.

(c) The local commanding officer or officer in charge for requests involving employees and their family members who are not active duty military members.

(d) The Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (ASN(M&RA)) for requests not covered by §§ 720.44 (a) through (c).
