
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 723 - BOARD FOR CORRECTION OF NAVAL RECORDS
###### ยง 723.6 Action by the Board.
####### Deliberations, findings, conclusions, and recommendations.

(a)(1) Only members of the Board and its staff shall be present during the deliberations of the Board.

(2) Whenever, during the course of its review of an application, it appears to the Board's satisfaction that the facts have not been fully and fairly disclosed by the records or by the testimony and other evidence before it, the Board may require the applicant or military authorities to provide such further information as it may consider essential to a complete and impartial determination of the facts and issues.

(3) Following a hearing, or where the Board determines to recommend that the record be corrected without a hearing, the Board will make written findings, conclusions and recommendations. If denial of relief is recommended following a hearing, such written findings and conclusions will include a statement of the grounds for denial as described in ยง 723.3(e)(4). The name and final vote of each Board member will be recorded. A majority vote of the members present on any matter before the Board will constitute the action of the Board and shall be so recorded.

(4) Where the Board deems it necessary to submit comments or recommendations to the Secretary as to matters arising from but not directly related to the issues of any case, such comments and recommendations shall be the subject of separate communication. Additionally, in Military Whistleblower Protection Act cases, any recommendation by the Board to the Secretary that disciplinary or administrative action be taken against any Navy official based on the Board's determination that the official took reprisal action against the applicant will not be made part of the Board's record of proceedings or furnished the applicant but will be transmitted to the Secretary as a separate communication.
