
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 724 - NAVAL DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
###### Subpart C - Director, Secretary of the Navy Council of Review Boards and President Naval Discharge Review Board; Responsibilities in Support of the Naval Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 724.303 Functions: President, Naval Discharge Review Board.

(a) Exercise primary cognizance within the Department of the Navy for matters relating to discharge review.

(b) Supervise and direct the activities of the NDRB.

(c) Maintain appropriate liaison with discharge review activities in other services (use Army Discharge Review Board as focal point for service coordination).

(d) Maintain coordination with the Commandant of the Marine Corps (Code M) and the Commander, Naval Military Personnel Command in matters associated with discharge review.

(e) In conformance with SECNAVINST 5211.5 series, protect the privacy of individuals in connection with discharge review.

(f) Assure that NDRB functions are administered in accordance with the appropriate Secretary of the Navy instructions dealing with privacy and access to information.

(g) Convene the NDRB as authorized by the Secretary of the Navy.

(h) Direct the movement of the NDRB Traveling Panel(s) on the basis of regional hearing requests.

(i) Monitor the performance of the naval discharge review system. Make recommendations for changes and improvements. Take action to avoid delays in processing of individual discharge review actions.

(j) Provide NDRB inputs for the maintenance of a public reading file and maintain associated NDRB indexes updated quarterly.
