
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 724 - NAVAL DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
###### Subpart C - Director, Secretary of the Navy Council of Review Boards and President Naval Discharge Review Board; Responsibilities in Support of the Naval Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 724.305 Functions of the CMC and CNO.

In the case of Navy, CNMPC, under the CNP, shall discharge responsibilities of the CNO.

(a) Provide and facilitate access by the NDRB to service/health records and other data associated with performance of duty of applicants.

(b) Advise the NDRB of developments in personnel management which may have a bearing on discharge review judgments.

(c) Implement the discharge review decisions of the NDRB and those of higher authority within respective areas of cognizance.

(d) Include the record of NDRB proceedings as a permanent part of the service record of the applicant in each case.

(e) Where appropriate, recommend cases for the NDRB to review on its own motion.

(f) Provide qualified personnel as NDRB members, recorders and administrative staff.

(g) Establish administrative procedures to ensure that if a member is separated from the Navy or the Marine Corps under other than fully honorable conditions, the member is advised of:

(1) The right to a review of his or her discharge under provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1553, and

(2) The procedures for applying for such a review.

(h) Provide Navy and Marine Corps units and activities with information on the mission of the Naval Discharge Review Board through entries in appropriate personnel administration directives.
