
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 724 - NAVAL DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
###### Subpart E - Procedural Rights of the Applicant and Administrative Actions Preliminary To Discharge Review
####### ยง 724.501 Procedural rights of the applicant.

Each applicant has the following procedural rights:

(a) Within 15 years after the date of discharge, to make a written request for review of the applicant's discharge if the discharge was other than the result of a general court-martial. The request may include such other statements, affidavits, or documentation as desired.

(b) To have that review conducted by the NDRB either in the NCR or other designated location, when a personal appearance discharge review is desired.

(c) To appear before the NDRB in person, with or without counsel/representative; with counsel/representative concurrence, to have counsel/representative present the applicant's case in the absence of the applicant; or to have the review conducted based on records and any additional documentation submitted by the applicant or counsel/representative.

(d) To request copies of any documents or other evidence to be considered by the NDRB in the review of the applicant's discharge or dismissal other than the documents or evidence contained in the official record or submitted by the applicant prior to the conduct of the formal review and to be afforded an opportunity to examine such other documents or evidence or to be provided with copies of them.

(e) To withdraw the request for discharge review without prejudice at any time prior to the scheduled review, except that failure to appear for a scheduled hearing shall not be construed or accepted as a withdrawal.

(f) To request a continuance of the review when the continuance is of a reasonable duration and essential to achieving a full and fair hearing. The request must indicate the reason why the continuance is required.

(g) To request postponement of the discharge review for good and sufficient reason set forth in a timely manner.

(h) To request reconsideration of the discharge review under the conditions set forth in ยง 724.217.

(i) To have access to the information to be considered by the NDRB prior to the actual review of the applicant's case.

(j) To have the applicant's right to privacy protected in any review conducted by the NDRB.

(k) When appearing personally before the NDRB:

(1) To introduce witnesses, documents, and sworn or unsworn testimony.

(2) To present oral or written arguments personally or through counsel/representative.

(l) To submit documents, affidavits, briefs or arguments in writing. When the counsel/representative appears in person before the NDRB, arguments may be presented orally.

(m) To state clearly and specifically the issue or issues which the applicant desires the NDRB to answer in writing. These must be presented in writing on DD Form 293 by the applicant or counsel/representative.

(n) To have the applicant's discharge reviewed under the standards of equity and propriety outlined in subpart I.

(o) To be provided with a written decision on the applicant's review.

(p) If the case is to be forwarded for Secretarial review, to present a timely statement rebutting any findings, conclusions, or reasons of the NDRB or the President, NDRB, which are alleged to be erroneous on the facts, against the substantial weight of the evidence, or contrary to law or governing regulation, prior to that Secretarial review.
