
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 724 - NAVAL DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
###### Subpart E - Procedural Rights of the Applicant and Administrative Actions Preliminary To Discharge Review
####### ยง 724.504 NDRB actions preliminary to discharge review.

(a) When each application for discharge review is received by the NDRB, the service record and, if required, health record of the applicant will be requested from the appropriate record custodian.

(b) Upon receipt, each record of service will be reviewed to determine whether or not the applicant appears to have been discharged under circumstances which might act as a bar to Veterans' Administration benefits under 38 U.S.C. 3103. These circumstances of discharge are:

(1) Discharge or dismissal by reason of the sentence of a general court-martial.

(2) Discharge as a conscientious objector who refused to perform military duty, to wear the uniform or otherwise to comply with lawful orders of competent military authority.

(3) Discharge as a deserter.

(4) Discharge on the basis, or as part of the basis, of an absence without authority from active duty for a continuous period of at least 180 days, if such discharge was under conditions other than honorable. Additionally, such absence is computed without regard to the applicant's normal or adjusted expiration of term of service.

(5) Discharge or dismissal of an officer based on acceptance of the officer's resignation for the good of the service.

(6) Discharge, on his/her own application, during a period of hostilities, as an alien.

(c) If it appears that the applicant was discharged under one or more of the circumstances outlined in ยง 724.504b, a written notification will be sent which informs the applicant that:

(1) An initial service record review reveals that the discharge may have been awarded under circumstances which make the applicant ineligible for receipt of VA benefits regardless of any action taken by the NDRB.

(2) Separate action by the Board for Correction of Naval Records (BCNR) and/or the VA, in case of 180 days consecutive UA disqualification, may confer eligibility for VA benefits. Instructions for making application to the BCNR and for contacting the VA are provided.
