
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 724 - NAVAL DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
###### Subpart H - Procedures of Naval Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 724.804 Decision process.
######## Application of standards.

(f)(1) When the NDRB determines that an applicant's discharge was improper, the NDRB will determine which reason for discharge should have been assigned based upon the facts and circumstances before the discharge authority, including the service regulations governing reasons for discharge at the time the applicant was discharged. Unless it is also determined that the discharge was inequitable, the provisions as to the characterization in the regulation under which the applicant should have been discharged will be considered in determining whether further relief is warranted.

(2) When the NDRB determines that an applicant's discharge was inequitable, any change will be based on the evaluation of the applicant's overall record of service and relevant regulations of the service of which the applicant was a member.

(g) Voting shall be conducted in closed session, a majority of the votes of the five members constituting the NDRB decision.

(h) Details of closed session deliberations of the NDRB are priviledged information and shall not be divulged.

(i) There is no requirement for a statement of minority views in the event of a split vote.

(j) The NDRB may request advisory opinions from appropriate staff officers of the naval service. These opinions are advisory in nature and are not binding on the NDRB in its decision-making process.

(k) The preliminary determinations required by 38 U.S.C. 3103(e) shall be made upon majority vote of the NDRB concerned on an expedited basis. Such determination shall be based upon the standards set forth in this Manual.
