
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 724 - NAVAL DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
###### Subpart H - Procedures of Naval Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 724.806 Decisional issues.
######## Relationship of an issue to propriety or equity.

(3)(i) If an applicant identifies an issue as pertaining to both propriety and equity, the NDRB will consider it under both standards.

(ii) If an applicant identifies an issue as pertaining to the propriety of the discharge (for example, by citing a propriety standard or otherwise claiming that a change in discharge is required as a matter of law), the NDRB shall consider the issue solely as a matter of propriety. Except as provided in ยง 724.806(a)(3)(d), the NDRB is not required to consider such an issue under the equity standards.

(iii) If the applicant's issue contends that the NDRB is required as a matter of law to follow a prior decision by setting forth an issue of propriety from the prior decision and describing its relationship to the applicant's case, the issue shall be considered under the propriety standards and addressed under ยง 724.806 (a) or (b).

(iv) If the applicant's issue sets forth principles of equity contained in a prior NDRB decision, describes the relationship to the applicant's case, and contends that the NDRB is required as a matter of law to follow the prior case, the decisional document shall note that the NDRB is not bound by its discretionary decisions in prior cases. However, the principles cited by the applicant, and the description of the relationship of the principles to the applicant's case, shall be considered and addressed under the equity standards.

(v) If the applicant's issue cannot be identified as a matter of propriety or equity, the NDRB shall address it as an issue of equity.
