
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 724 - NAVAL DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
###### Appendix A to Part 724 - Policy Statement by the Secretary of Defense - Addressing Certain Categories of Discharges

Secretary of Defense memorandum of August 13, 1971, to the Secretaries of the Military Departments, The Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff; Subject: Review of Discharges Under Other Than Honorable Conditions Issued to Drug Users:

"Consistent with Department of Defense Directive 1300.11, October 23, 1970, and my memorandum of July 7, 1971, concerning rehabilitation and treatment of drug users, administrative discharges under other than honorable conditions issued solely on the basis of personal use of drugs or possession of drugs for the purpose of such use will be reviewed for recharacterization.

"Accordingly, each Secretary of a Military Department, acting through his/her Discharge Review Board, will consider applications for such review from former service members. Each Secretary is authorized to issue a discharge under honorable conditions upon establishment of facts consistent with this policy. Former service members will be notified of the results of the review. The Veterans' Administration will also be notified of the names of former service members whose discharges are recharacterized.

"The statute of limitations for review of discharges within the scope of this policy will be in accordance with 10 United States Code 1553.

"This policy shall apply to those service members whose cases are finalized or in process on or before July 7, 1971".

Secretary of Defense memorandum of April 28, 1972, to Secretaries of the Military Departments, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff; Subject: Review of Punitive Discharges Issued to Drug Users:

"Reference is made to Secretary Packard's memorandum of July 7, 1971, concerning rehabilitation and treatment of drug users, and my memorandum of August 13, 1971, subject: 'Review of Discharges Under Other Than Honorable Conditions Issued to Drug Users.'

"My August 13, 1971 memorandum established the current Departmental policy that administrative discharges under other than honorable conditions issued solely on the basis of personal use of drugs or possession of drugs for the purpose of such use will be reviewed for recharacterization to under honorable conditions.

"It is my desire that this policy be expanded to include punitive discharges and dismissals resulting from approved sentences of courts-martial issed solely for conviction of personal use of drugs or possession of drugs for the purpose of such use.

"Review and recharacterization are to be effected, upon the application of former service members, utilizing the procedures and authority set forth in Title 10, United States Code, sections 874(b), 1552 and 1553.

"This policy is applicable only to discharges which have been executed on or before July 7, 1971, or issued as a result of a case in process on or before July 7, 1971.

"Former service members requesting a review will be notified of the results of the review. The Veterans' Administration will also be notified of the names of former service members whose discharges are recharacterized."
