
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 725 - RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION FOR LITIGATION PURPOSES AND TESTIMONY BY DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 725.5 Applicability.

(a) This instruction applies to all present and former civilian and military personnel of the DON whether employed by, or assigned to, DON temporarily or permanently. Affected personnel are defined more fully in ยง 725.4(b).

(b) This instruction applies only to situations involving existing or reasonably anticipated litigation, as defined in ยง 725.4(d), when DOD information or witnesses are sought, whether or not the United States, the DOD, or its components are parties thereto. It does not apply to formal or informal requests for information in other situations.

(c) This instruction provides guidance only for DON operation and activities of its present and former personnel in responding to litigation requests. It is not intended to, does not, and may not be relied upon to, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity against the United States, DOD, or DON.

(d) This instruction is not intended to infringe upon or displace the responsibilities committed to the Department of Justice in conducting litigation on behalf of the United States.

(e) This instruction does not supersede or modify existing laws, DOD or DON regulations, directives, or instructions governing testimony of DON personnel or release of official DOD or DON information during grand jury proceedings.

(f) This instruction does not control release of official information in response to requests unrelated to litigation or under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. This instruction does not preclude treating any written request for DON records as a request under the FOIA or Privacy Acts. Activities are encouraged to treat such requests for documents under the FOIA or the Privacy Act if they are invoked by the requestor either explicitly or by fair implication. See 32 CFR 701.3(a), 701.10(a). Activities are reminded that such treatment does not absolve them of the responsibility to respond in a timely fashion to legal process. In any event, if the official information requested pertains to a litigation matter which the United States is a present or potential party, the release authority should notify the delegate of the General Counsel or the Judge Advocate General, under ยง 725.6.

(g) This part does not apply to release of official information or testimony by DON personnel in the following situations:

(1) Before courts-martial convened by any DOD component, or in administrative proceedings conducted by, or on behalf of, such component;

(2) Under administrative proceedings conducted by, or on behalf of, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB), the Federal Labor Relations Authority, the Federal Services Impasse Panel, or under a negotiated grievance procedure under a collective bargaining agreement to which the Government is a party;

(3) In response to requests by Federal Government counsel, or counsel representing the interests of the Federal Government, in litigation conducted, in whole or in part, on behalf of the United States (e.g., Medical Care Recovery Act claims, affirmative claims, or subpoenas issued by, or concurred in by, Government counsel when the United States is a party), but the regulation does apply to an action brought under the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act in which a private party brings an action in the name of the United States but in which the Department of Justice either has not yet determined to intervene in the litigation or has declined to intervene;

(4) As part of the assistance required by the Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program under DOD Directive 5220.6;

(5) Release of copies of Manual of the Judge Advocate General (JAGMAN) investigations, to the next of kin (or their representatives) of deceased or incompetent naval personnel;

(6) Release of information by DON personnel to counsel retained on their behalf for purposes of litigation, unless that information is classified, privileged, or otherwise protected from disclosure (in the latter event, compliance with 32 CFR part 97 and this part is required);

(7) Cases involving garnishment orders for child support and/or alimony. The release of official information in these cases is governed by 5 CFR 581 and SECNAVINST 7200.16, or;

(8) Release of information to Federal, state, and local prosecuting and law enforcement authorities, in conjunction with an investigation conducted by a DOD component or DON criminal investigative organization.

(h) This part does not preclude official comment on matters in litigation in appropriate cases.

(i) The DOD General Counsel may notify DOD components that DOD will assume primary responsibility for coordinating all litigation requests for demands for official DOD information or testimony of DOD personnel in litigation involving terrorism, espionage, nuclear weapons, and intelligence sources or means. Accordingly, determining officials who receive requests pertaining to such litigation shall notify the Associate General Counsel (Litigation) or the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General (International Law or General Litigation) who shall consult and coordinate with DOD General Counsel prior to any response to such requests.
