
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 725 - RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION FOR LITIGATION PURPOSES AND TESTIMONY BY DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 725.6 Authority to determine and respond.
####### Litigation matters to which the United States is, or might reasonably become, a party.

(c)Examples of such instances include suits under the Federal Tort Claims Act, Freedom of Information Act, Medical Care Recovery Act, Tucker Act, and suits against Government contractors where the contractor may interplead the United States or seek indemnification from the United States for any judgment paid, e.g., aviation contractors or asbestos matters. Generally, a suit in which the plaintiff is representing the interests of the United States under the Medical Care Recovery Act is not a litigation matter to which the United States is, or might reasonably become, a party. Determining authorities, if in doubt whether the United States is likely to become a party to the litigation, should seek guidance from representatives of the Offices of the Judge Advocate General or General Counsel. The Judge Advocate General and the General Counsel have the authority to determine whether a litigation request should be forwarded to them, or retained by a determining authority, for resolution.

(1) Litigation requests regarding matters assigned to the Judge Advocate General of the Navy under Navy Regulations, article 0331 (1990), shall be referred to the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General for General Litigation, Office of the Navy Judge Advocate General (Washington Navy Yard), 1322 Patterson Avenue, SE., Suite 3000, Washington, DC, 20374-5066, who will respond for the Judge Advocate General or transmit the request to the appropriate Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General for response.

(2) Litigation requests regarding matters assigned to the General Counsel of the Navy under Navy Regs., art. 0327 (1990), shall be referred to the cognizant Command Counsel under, and subject to, limitations set forth in ยง 725.6(d)(2). That Command Counsel may either respond or refer the matter for action to another office. Requests involving asbestos litigation shall be referred to the Office of Counsel, Naval Sea Systems Command Headquarters, Personnel and Labor Law Section (Code 00LD), Washington, DC 20362-5101. Matters not clearly within the purview of a particular command counsel shall be referred to Associate General Counsel (Litigation), who may either respond or refer the matter for action to another office.

(3) Matters involving the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals shall be forwarded to these respective counsel except where the determination may involve the assertion of the deliberative process privilege before that Board. In such an event, the matter shall be forwarded for determination to the Associate General Counsel (Litigation).
