
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 725 - RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION FOR LITIGATION PURPOSES AND TESTIMONY BY DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 725.7 Contents of a proper request or demand.
####### Emergency requests.

(d)Written requests are generally required by 32 CFR part 97.

(1) The determining authority, identified in ยง 725.6, has discretion to waive that requirement in the event of a bona fide emergency, under conditions set forth here, which were not anticipated in the course of proper pretrial planning and discovery. Oral requests and subsequent determinations should be reserved for instances where factual matters are sought, and compliance with the requirements of a proper written request would result in the effective denial of the request and cause an injustice in the outcome of the litigation for which the information is sought. No requester has a right to make an oral request and receive a determination. Whether to permit such an exceptional procedure is a decision within the sole discretion of the determining authority, unless overruled by the General Counsel or the Judge Advocate General, as appropriate.

(2) If the determining authority concludes that the request, or any portion of it, meets the emergency test, he or she will require the requester to agree to the conditions set forth in ยง 725.7(a). The determining authority will then orally advise the requester of the determination, and seek a written confirmation of the oral request. Thereafter, the determining authority will make a written record of the disposition of the oral request including the grant or denial, circumstances requiring the procedure, and conditions to which the requester agreed.

(3) The emergency procedure should not be utilized where the requester refuses to agree to the appropriate conditions set forth in ยง 725.7(a) or indicates unwillingness to abide by the limits of the oral grant, partial grant, or denial.
