
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 725 - RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION FOR LITIGATION PURPOSES AND TESTIMONY BY DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 725.8 Considerations in determining to grant or deny a request.
####### Documents (where the United States is not, and is reasonably not expected to become a party),Unclassified Navy and Marine Corps records.

(2)-(i)Where parties or potential parties desire unclassified naval records in connection with a litigation matter, the subpoena duces tecum or court order will be served, under 32 CFR 257.5(c), upon the General Counsel of the Navy, along with a written request complying with ยง 725.7.

(A) If the determining authority to whom the matter is referred determines to comply with the order or subpoena, compliance will be effected by transmitting certified copies of records to the clerk of the court from which process issued. If, because of an unusual circumstance, an original record must be produced by a naval custodian, it will not be removed from the custody of the person producing it, but copies may be placed in evidence.

(B) Upon written request of one or more parties in interest or their respective attorneys, records which would be produced in response to a court order signed by a judge as set forth above may be furnished without a court order, but only upon a request complying with ยง 725.7 and only when such records are not in a "system of records" as defined by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a). In determining whether a record not contained in a "system of records" will be furnished in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request, SECNAVINST 5720.42Econtrols.

(C) Generally, a record in a Privacy Act "system of records" may not be released under a litigation request except with the written consent of the person to whom the record pertains or in response to a court order signed by a judge. See SECNAVINST 5211.5Cand 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a for further guidance.

(D) Whenever compliance with a court order or subpoena duces tecum for production of DON records is denied for any reason, the subpoena or court order and complete copies of the requested records will be forwarded to the appropriate Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General (General Litigation) or the Associate General Counsel (Litigation) for action, and the parties to the suit notified in accordance with this part.
