
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter C - Personnel
##### PART 725 - RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION FOR LITIGATION PURPOSES AND TESTIMONY BY DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 725.8 Considerations in determining to grant or deny a request.
####### Expert, opinion, or policy matters.

(ii)Such matters are to be determined, under the delegation in ยง 725.6, by the cognizant Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General or by General Counsel. General considerations to identify expert or opinion testimony are in ยง 725.4(c). DON personnel shall not provide, with or without compensation, opinion or expert testimony concerning official information, subjects, or activities, except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the Department of Justice. Upon a showing by the requester of exceptional need or unique circumstances, and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the DOD or the United States, the appropriate DON official designated in ยง 725.6, may grant, in writing, special authorization for DON personnel to appear and testify at no expense to the United States. In determining whether exceptional need or unique circumstances exist, the determining official should consider whether such expert or opinion testimony is available to the requester from any other source. The burden of demonstrating such unavailability, if any, is solely upon the requester.
