
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter D - Procurement, Property, Patents, and Contracts
##### PART 746 - LICENSING OF GOVERNMENT INVENTIONS IN THE CUSTODY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
###### ยง 746.7 Limited exclusive license.
####### Terms of grant.

(c)(1) The license may be granted for all or less than all fields of use of the government invention, and throughout the United States of America, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, or in any lesser geographic portion thereof.

(2) Subject to the rights reserved to the Government in paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) of ยง 746.7, the licensee shall be granted the exclusive right to practice the invention in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the license.

(3) The duration of the license shall be negotiated but shall be for a period less than the terminal portion of the patent, the period remaining being sufficient to make the invention reasonably available for the grant of a nonexclusive license; and such period of exclusivity shall not exceed 5 years unless the Chief of Naval Research determines, on the basis of a written submission supported by a factual showing, that a longer period is reasonably necessary to permit the licensee to enter the market and recoup his reasonable costs in so doing.

(4) The license shall require the licensee to bring the invention to the point of practical application within a period specified in the license, or within a longer period as approved by the Chief of Naval Research, and to continue to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public.

(5) The license shall require the licensee to expend a specified minimum amount of money and/or take other specified actions, within a specified period of time after the effective date of the license, in an effort to bring the invention to the point of practical application.

(6) The license shall be subject to the irrevocable, royalty-free right of the Government of the United States to practice and have practiced the invention throughout the world, by or on behalf of the Government of the United States, and by or on behalf of any foreign government or intergovernmental organization pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement with the United states. If the Chief of Naval Research finds it to be in the public interest, this license may also be expressly subject to this same royalty-free right by or on behalf of state and municipal governments.

(7) The license shall reserve to the Chief of Naval Research the right to require the licensee to grant sublicenses to responsible applicants on terms that are reasonable in the circumstances:

(i) The extent that the invention is required for public use by government regulations, or

(ii) As may be necessary to fulfill health or safety needs, or

(iii) For other public purposes stipulated in the license.

(8) The license may extend to subsidiaries and affiliates of the licensee but shall be nonassignable without approval of the Chief of Naval Research, except to successors of that part of the licensee's business to which the invention pertains.

(9) An exclusive licensee may grant sublicenses under his license, subject to the approval of the Chief of Naval Research. Each sublicense granted by an exclusive licensee shall make reference to the exclusive license, including the rights retained by the Government under the exclusive license, and a copy of such sublicense shall be furnished to the Chief of Naval Research.

(10) The license may be subject to such other terms as may be in the public interest.

(11) The Government shall make no representation or warranty as to validity of any licensed application(s) or patent(s), or of the scope of any of the claims contained therein, or that the exercise of the license will not result in the infringement of any other patent(s), nor shall the Government assume any liability whatsoever resulting from the exercise of the license.
