
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter D - Procurement, Property, Patents, and Contracts
##### PART 746 - LICENSING OF GOVERNMENT INVENTIONS IN THE CUSTODY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
###### ยง 746.6 Nonexclusive license.
####### Terms of grant.

(b)(1) The duration of the license shall be for a period as specified in the license agreement, provided that the licensee complies with all the terms of the license.

(2) The license shall require the licensees to bring the invention to the point of practical application within a period specified in the license, or such extended period as may be agreed upon, and to contine to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public.

(3) The license may be granted for all or less than all fields of use of the invention, and throughout the United States of America, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, or in any lesser geographic portion thereof.

(4) After termination of a period specified in the license agreement, the Chief of Naval Research may restrict the license to the fields of use and/or geographic areas in which the licensee has brought the invention to the point of practical application and continues to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public.

(5) The license may extend to subsidiaries and affiliates of the licensee but shall be nonassignable without approval of the Chief of Naval Research, except to the successor of that part of the licensee's business to which the invention pertains.

(6) The Government shall make no representation or warranty as to the validity of any licensed application(s) or patent(s), or of the scope of any of the claims contained therein, or that the exercise of the license will not result in the infringement of any other patent(s), nor shall the Government assume any liability whatsoever resulting from the exercise of the license.
