
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 750 - GENERAL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions for Claims
####### ยง 750.3 Investigations: The report.
######## Contents of the report of investigation.

(h)The report should include the following items in addition to the requirements in ยง 750.3(c):

(1) If pertinent to the investigation, the investigating officer should obtain a statement from claimant's employer showing claimant's occupation, wage or salary, and time lost from work as a result of the incident. In case of personal injury, the investigating officer should ask claimant to submit a written statement from the attending physician setting forth the nature and extent of injury and treatment, the duration and extent of any disability, the prognosis, and the period of hospitalization or incapacity.

(2) A Privacy Act statement for each person who was asked to furnish personal information shall be provided. Social Security numbers of military personnel and civilian employees of the U.S. Government should be included in the report but should be obtained from available records, not from the individual.

(3) Names, addresses, and ages of all civilians or military personnel injured or killed; names of insurance companies; information on the nature and extent of injuries, degree of permanent disability, prognosis, period of hospitalization, name and address of attending physician and hospital, and amount of medical, hospital, and burial expenses actually incurred; occupation and wage or salary of civilians injured or killed; and names, addresses, ages, relationship, and extent of dependency of survivors of any such person fatally injured should be included.

(4) If straying animals are involved, a statement as to whether the jurisdiction has an "open range law" and, if so, reference to such statute.

(5) A statement as to whether any person involved violated any State or Federal statute, local ordinance, or installation regulation and, if so, in what respect. The statute, ordinance, or regulation should be set out in full.

(6) A statement on whether a police investigation was made. A copy of the police report of investigation should be included if available.

(7) A statement on whether arrests were made or charges preferred, and the result of any trial or hearing in civil or military courts.
