
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 750 - GENERAL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions for Claims
####### ยง 750.13 Claims: Single service responsibility.

(a) The Department of Defense has assigned single-service responsibility for processing claims in foreign countries under the following acts. The service and country assignments are in DODDIR 5515.8 of 9 June 1990.

(1) Foreign Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2734);

(2) Military Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2733);

(3) International Agreements Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2734a and b), on the pro-rata cost sharing of claims pursuant to international agreement;

(4) NATO Status of Forces Agreement (4 UST 1792, TIAS 2846) and other similar agreements;

(5) Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) claims for reimbursement for medical care furnished by the United States;

(6) Nonscope Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2737), claims not cognizable under any other provision of law;

(7) Federal Claims Collection Act (31 U.S.C. Sections 3701, 3702, and 3711), claims and demands by the United States Government; and

(8) Public Law 87-212 (10 U.S.C. 2736), advance or emergency payments.

(b) Single service assignments for processing claims mentioned above are as follows:

(1) Department of the Army: Austria, Belgium, El Salvador, the Federal Republic of Germany, Grenada, Honduras, Hungary, Korea, Iraq, Kuwait, Latvia, Lithuania, the Marshall Islands, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Switzerland, and as the Receiving State Office in the United States under 10 U.S.C. Sections 2734a-2734b and the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, and other Status of Forces Agreements with countries not covered by the NATO agreement. Claims arising from Operation Joint Endeavor, including the former Yugoslavia, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, as well as the Rwanda Refugee Crisis Area are also assigned to the Army.

(2) Department of the Navy: Bahrain, Greece, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Spain and the United Arab Emirates.

(3) Department of the Air Force: Australia, Azores, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark, India, Japan, Luxembourg, Morocco, Nepal, Norway, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom, Egypt, Oman, and claims involving, or generated by, the United States Central Command (CENTCOM) and the United States Special Operations Command (SOCOM), that arise in countries not specifically assigned to the Departments of the Army and the Navy.
