
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 750 - GENERAL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart C - Military Claims Act
####### ยง 750.44 Claims not payable.

(a) Any claim for damage, loss, destruction, injury, or death which was proximately caused, in whole or in part, by any negligence or wrongful act on the part of the claimant, or his agent or employee, unless the law of the place where the act or omission complained of occurred would permit recovery from a private individual under like circumstances, and then only to the extent permitted by the law.

(b) Any claim resulting from action by the enemy or resulting directly or indirectly from any act by armed forces engaged in combat.

(c) Any claim for reimbursement of medical, hospital, or burial expenses to the extent already paid by the U.S. Government.

(d) Any claim cognizable under:

(1) Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act, as amended. 31 U.S.C. 3721.

(2) Foreign Claims Act. 10 U.S.C. 2734.

(3) 10 U.S.C. 7622, relating to admiralty claims. See part 752 of this Chapter.

(4) Federal Tort Claims Act. 28 U.S.C. 2671, 2672, and 2674-2680.

(5) International Agreements Claims Act. 10 U.S.C. 2734a and 2734b.

(6) Federal Employees' Compensation Act. 5 U.S.C. 8101-8150.

(7) Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act. 33 U.S.C. 901-950.

(e) Any claim for damage to or loss or destruction of real or personal property founded in written contract [except as provided in ยง 750.43(b) (2) and (3)].

(f) Any claim for rent of real or personal property [except as provided in ยง 750.43(b) (2) and (3)].

(g) Any claim involving infringement of patents.

(h) Any claim for damage, loss, or destruction of mail prior to delivery by the Postal Service to authorized DON personnel or occurring due to the fault of, or while in the hands of, bonded personnel.

(i) Any claim by a national, or corporation controlled by a national, of a country in armed conflict with the United States, or an ally of such country, unless the claimant is determined to be friendly to the United States.

(j) Any claim for personal injury or death of a member of the Armed Forces or civilian employee incident to his service. 10 U.S.C. 2733(b)(3).

(k) Any claim for damage to or loss of bailed property when bailor specifically assumes such risk.

(l) Any claim for taking private real property by a continuing trespass or by technical trespass such as overflights of aircraft.

(m) Any claim based solely on compassionate grounds.

(n) Any claim to which the exceptions in 28 U.S.C. 2680 apply.
