
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 750 - GENERAL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart C - Military Claims Act
####### ยง 750.47 Measure of damages for property claims.

Determine the measure of damages in property claims arising in the United States or its territories, commonwealth, or possessions under the law of the place where the incident occurred. Determine the measure of damages in property claims arising overseas under general principles of American tort law, stated as follows:

(a) If the property has been or can be economically repaired, the measure of damages shall be the actual or estimated net cost of the repairs necessary to substantially restore the property to the condition that existed immediately prior to the incident. Damages shall not exceed the value of the property immediately prior to the incident less the value thereof immediately after the incident. To determine the actual or estimated net cost of repairs, the value of any salvaged parts or materials and the amount of any net appreciation in value effected through the repair shall be deducted from the actual or estimated gross cost of repairs. The amount of any net depreciation in the value of the property shall be added to such gross cost of repairs, if such adjustments are sufficiently substantial in amount to warrant consideration. Estimates of the cost of repairs shall be based upon the lower or lowest of two or more competitive bids, or upon statements or estimates by one or more competent and disinterested persons, preferably reputable dealers or officials familiar with the type of property damaged, lost, or destroyed.

(b) If the property cannot be economically repaired, the measure of damages shall be the value of the property immediately prior to the incident less the value immediately after the incident. Estimates of value shall be made, if possible, by one or more competent and disinterested persons, preferably reputable dealers or officials familiar with the type of property damaged, lost, or destroyed.

(c) Loss of use of damaged property which is economically repairable may, if claimed, be included as an additional element of damage to the extent of the reasonable expense actually incurred for appropriate substitute property, for such period reasonably necessary for repairs, as long as idle property of the claimant was not employed as a substitute. When substitute property is not obtainable, other competent evidence such as rental value, if not speculative or remote, may be considered. When substitute property is reasonably available but not obtained and used by the claimant, loss of use is normally not payable.
