
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 750 - GENERAL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart C - Military Claims Act
####### ยง 750.52 Appeal.

(a) A claim which is disapproved in whole or in part may be appealed by the claimant at any time within 30 days after receipt of notification of disapproval. An appeal shall be in writing and state the grounds relied upon. An appeal is not an adversary proceeding and a hearing is not authorized; however, the claimant may obtain and submit any additional evidence or written argument for consideration by the appellate authority.

(b) Upon receipt, the adjudicating authority examines the appeal, determines whether the appeal complies with this regulation, and reviews the claims investigative file to ensure it is complete. The claim, with the complete investigative file and a memorandum of law, will be forwarded to the appellate authority for action. If the evidence in the file, including information submitted by the claimant with the appeal, indicates the appeal should be approved, the adjudicating authority may treat the appeal as a request for reconsideration.

(c) Processing of the appeal may be delayed pending further efforts by the adjudicating authority to settle the claim. Where the adjudicating authority does not reach a final agreement on an appealed claim, it shall send the entire claim file to the next higher settlement authority, who is the appellate authority for that claim.

(d) The appellate authority shall notify the claimant in writing of the determination on appeal; that such determination constitutes the final administrative action on the claim; and there is no right to sue under the MCA.
