
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 750 - GENERAL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart D - Claims Not Cognizable Under Any Other Provision of Law
####### ยง 750.64 Claim procedures.

(a) The general provisions of subpart A of this part shall apply in determining what is a proper claim, who is a proper claimant, and how a claim is to be investigated and processed under 10 U.S.C. 2737 and this section.

(b) A claim is presented when the DON receives from a claimant or the claimant's duly authorized agent, written notification of a nonscope claim incident accompanied by a demand for money damages in a sum certain.

(c) A claimant may amend a claim at any time prior to final action. Amendments will be submitted in writing and signed by the claimant or the claimant's duly authorized agent.

(d) Claims submitted under the provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) or Military Claims Act (MCA) shall be considered automatically for an award under this section when payment would otherwise be barred because the DON personnel were not in the scope of their employment at the time of the incident. If a tender of payment under this section is not accepted by the claimant in full satisfaction of the claim, no award will be made, and the claim will be denied pursuant to the rules applicable to the statute under which it was submitted.

(e) Damages caused by latent defects of ordinary, commercial type, Government equipment that were not payable under the MCA, Foreign Claims Act, or FTCA are payable under this section.

(f) Nonscope claims for damages caused by local national DON employees overseas are also payable under this section if the injury was caused by the use of Government equipment.

(g) Payment may not be made on a nonscope claim unless the claimant accepts the amount offered in full satisfaction of the claim and signs a settlement agreement.

(h) Payment for nonscope claims adjudicated by field commands will be affected through their local disbursing office by use of funds obtained from the Judge Advocate General.

(i) Claims submitted solely under 10 U.S.C. 2737 shall be promptly considered. If a nonscope claim is denied, the claimant shall be informed of reasons in writing and advised he may appeal in writing to the Secretary of the Navy (Judge Advocate General) provided the appeal is received within 30 days of the notice of denial. The provisions of ยง 750.51(b) of subpart C also apply to denials of nonscope claims.
