
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 751 - PERSONNEL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart A - Claims Against the United States
####### ยง 751.5 Definitions.
######## Unusual occurrence.

(c)Serious events and natural disaster not expected to take place in the normal course of events and hazards outside the normal risks of day-to-day living and working. Two different types of incidents may be considered unusual occurrences: those of an unusual nature and those of a common nature that occur to an unexpected degree of severity. Examples of unusual occurrences include structural defects in quarters, faulty plumbing maintenance, termite or rodent damage, unusually large size hail, and hazardous health conditions due to Government use of toxic chemicals. Examples of occurrences that are not unusual include potholes or foreign objects in the road, ice and snow sliding off a roof onto a vehicle, and tears, rips, snags, or stains on clothing. Claims that electrical or electronic devices were damaged by a power surge may be paid when lightning has actually struck the claimant's residence or objects outside the residence, such as a transformer box, or when power company records or similar evidence shows that a particular residence or group of residences was subjected to a power surge of unusual intensity. In areas subject to frequent thunderstorms or power fluctuations, claimants are expected to use surge suppressors, if available, to protect delicate items such as computers or videocassette recorders.
