
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 751 - PERSONNEL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart A - Claims Against the United States
####### ยง 751.6 Claims payable.
######## Losses at assigned quarters or other authorized places.

(b)Damage or loss caused by fire, explosion, theft, vandalism, lightning, flood, earthquake, and unusual occurrences is cognizable. Losses due to theft may only be paid if the claimant took reasonable measures to safeguard the property and theft occurred as a result of a forced entry. Claimants are expected to secure windows and doors of their barracks, quarters, wall lockers, and other storage areas so that the thief must force an entry. If a police report states that there were no signs of forced entry and the claimant asserts with absolute certainty that the area was in fact secure, the claims examiner must consider whether forced entry would have left visible signs. Claimants are also expected to take extra measures to protect cash, valuable jewelry, and similar small, easily pilferable items. Normally, such items should be kept in a locked container within a secured room. It is also advisable that the locked container be large enough that it is not convenient for a thief to carry off. Bicycles located at quarters or on base must be secured to a fixed object. Overseas housing is considered assigned quarters for claimants who are not local inhabitants.
