
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 751 - PERSONNEL CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart A - Claims Against the United States
####### ยง 751.6 Claims payable.
######## Vehicle losses.

(c)(1) Losses incurred while a vehicle is used in the performance of a military duty, if such use was authorized or directed for the convenience of the Government, provided the travel did not include commuting to or from a permanent place of duty, and did not arise from mechanical or structural defect of the vehicle. There is no requirement that the loss be due to fire, flood, hurricane, or other unusual occurrence, or to theft or vandalism. As a general rule, however, travel is not considered to be for the convenience of the Government unless it was pursuant to written orders authorizing use for which the claimant is entitled to reimbursement. The claimant must be free from negligence in order to be paid for a collision loss. Travel by the claimant to other buildings on the installation is not loss. Travel by the claimant to other buildings on the installation is not considered to be under orders for the convenience of the Government. Travel off the installation without written orders may only be deemed to be for the convenience of the Government if the claimant was authorized mileage reimbursement for the travel. The issuance of written orders after the fact raises the presumption that travel was not authorized for the convenience of the Government. The maximum payment authorized by the Allowance List-Depreciation Guide (ALDG) still applies to loss of or damage to vehicles and contents. This maximum does not apply to DITY moves.

(2) Losses incurred while a vehicle is shipped at Government expense are compensable provided the loss or damage did not arise from mechanical or structural defect of the vehicle during such shipment. Damage caused during shipment at the claimant's expense or while the vehicle is being moved to or from the port by an agent of the claimant is not compensable.

(3) Losses incurred while a vehicle is located at quarters or other authorized place of lodging, including garages, carports, driveways, assigned parking spaces, if the loss or damage is caused by fire, flood, hurricane, theft, or vandalism, or other unusual occurrence. Vandalism is damage intentionally caused. Stray marks caused by children playing, falling branches, gravel thrown by other vehicles, or similar occurrences are not vandalism. The amount payable on vandalism claims is limited to the maximum payment authorized by the ALDG.

(4) Incurred while a vehicle is located at places other than quarters but on a military installation, if the loss or damage is caused by fire, flood, hurricane, theft, or vandalism, or other unusual occurrence. "Military installation" is used broadly to describe any fixed land area, wherever situated, controlled, and used by military activities or the Department of Defense (DOD). A vehicle properly on the installation should be presumed to be used incident to the claimant's service. A vehicle that is not properly insured or registered in accordance with local regulations is not properly on the installation. A vehicle left in a remote area of the installation that is not a designated long-term parking area for an undue length of time is presumed not to be on the installation incident to service.
