
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart B - FAP Standards
####### ยง 61.12 Procedures.
######## PS 3: Monitoring coordinated community response and risk management plan.

(iii)The FAC monitors the implementation of the coordinated community response and risk management plan. Such monitoring includes a review of:

(A) The development, signing, and implementation of formal memorandums of understanding (MOUs) among military activities and between military activities and civilian authorities and agencies to address child abuse and domestic abuse.

(B) Steps taken to address problems identified in the most recent accreditation review of the FAP and evaluation of the installation's coordinated community response and risk management approach.

(C) FAP recommended criteria to identify populations at higher risk to commit or experience child abuse and domestic abuse, the special needs of such populations, and appropriate actions to address those needs.

(D) Effectiveness of the installation coordinated community response and risk management approach in responding to high risk for violence, child abuse, and domestic abuse incidents.

(E) Implementation of the installation prevention strategy to include primary, secondary, and tertiary interventions.

(F) The annual report of fatality reviews that Service FAP headquarters fatality review teams conduct. The FAC should also review the Service FAP headquarters' recommended changes for the coordinated community response and risk management approach. The coordinated community response will focus on strengthening protective factors that promote and sustain healthy family relationships and reduce the risk factors for future child abuse and domestic abuse-related fatalities.
