
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter E - Claims
##### PART 757 - AFFIRMATIVE CLAIMS REGULATIONS
###### Subpart B - Medical Care Recovery Act (MCRA) Claims and Claims Asserted Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1095
####### ยง 757.18 Asserting the claim.
######## Administering the claim.

(d)(1) After investigating and asserting the claim, the JAG designee will maintain contact with all parties, their legal representatives, and insurers.

(2) An effort should be made to coordinate collection of the Federal government's interest with the injured person's action to collect on a claim for damages.

(i) Attorneys representing an injured person may be authorized to include the Federal government's claim as an item of special damages with the injured person's claim or suit.

(ii) An agreement that the Government's claim will be made a party of the injured person's action should be in writing and state the counsel fees will not be paid by the Government or computed on the basis of the Government's portion of recovery.

(3) If the injured person is not bringing an action for damages or is refusing to include the Federal Government's interest, the JAG designee will pursue independent collection. The United States is specifically allowed to intervene or join in any action at law brought by or through the injured person against the liable third person or brings an original suit in its own name or in the name of the injured person. The JAG designee will ensure all parties are aware that the United States must be a party to all subsequent collection negotiation.

(4) When the Government's interests are not being represented by the injured person or his/her attorney, and independent collection efforts have failed, the JAG designee will refer the claims to the DoJ for possible suit.
