
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter F - Islands Under Navy Jurisdiction
##### PART 761 - NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS; NAVAL AIRSPACE RESERVATIONS, AREAS UNDER NAVY ADMINISTRATION, AND THE TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
###### Subpart A - Introduction
####### ยง 761.2 Background and general policy.

(a) Certain areas, due to their strategic nature or for purposes of defense, have been subjected to restrictions regarding the free entry of persons, ships, and aircraft. Free entry into the areas listed and defined in this part, and military installations contiguous to or within the boundaries of defense areas, is subject to control as provided for by Executive order or other regulation. The object of controls over entry into naval defensive sea areas, naval airspace reservations, administrative areas, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, is to provide for the protection of military installations as well as other facilities, including the personnel, property, and equipment assigned to or located therein. Persons, ships, and aircraft are excluded unless and until they qualify for admission under the applicable Executive order or regulation.

(b) The control of entry into or movement within defense areas by persons, ships, or aircraft will be exercised so as to fully protect the physical security of, and insure the full effectiveness of, bases, stations, facilities and other installations within or contiguous to defense areas. However, unnecessary interference with the free movement of persons, ships, and aircraft is to be avoided.

(c) This part will be administered so as to provide for the prompt processing of all applications and to insure uniformity of interpretation and application, insofar as changing conditions permit.

(d) In cases of doubt, the determination will be made in favor of the course of action which will best serve the interests of the United States and national defense as distinguished from the private interests of an individual or group.
