
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter F - Islands Under Navy Jurisdiction
##### PART 761 - NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS; NAVAL AIRSPACE RESERVATIONS, AREAS UNDER NAVY ADMINISTRATION, AND THE TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
###### Subpart A - Introduction
####### ยง 761.4 Special provisions.
######## Suspension of restrictions.

(d)Restrictions imposed under the authority of the above cited Executive Orders on entry into the following Naval Defensive Sea Areas and Naval Airspace Reservations and Administrative Areas have been suspended subject to reinstatement without notice at any time when the purposes of national defense may require.

(1) All Naval Airspace Reservations, except the Guantanamo Bay Naval Airspace Reservation

(2) Honolulu Defensive Sea Area.

(3) Kiska Island Naval Defensive Sea Area.

(4) Kodiak Island Naval Defensive Sea Area.

(5) Unalaska Island Naval Defensive Sea Area.

(6) Wake Island Naval Defensive Sea Area except for entry of foreign flag ships and foreign nationals.

(7) The portion of Kaneohe Defensive Sea Area lying beyond a 500 yard buffer zone around the perimeter of the Kaneohe Marine Corps Air Station (Mokapu Peninsula) and eastward therefrom to Kapoho Point, Oahu.

(e) Suspension of restrictions on entry into a naval airspace reservation, naval defensive sea area, or naval administrative area, does not affect the authority of a commanding officer or other appropriate commander to control entry into or passage through any base, station, or other installation or area, including port or harbor facilities under Navy control.
