
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter F - Islands Under Navy Jurisdiction
##### PART 761 - NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS; NAVAL AIRSPACE RESERVATIONS, AREAS UNDER NAVY ADMINISTRATION, AND THE TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
###### Subpart C - Entry Authorization
####### ยง 761.11 Persons: Individual authorizations.
######## Application; filing.

(a)Applications for authorization to enter defense areas shall be filed with one of the following:

(1) Chief of Naval Operations.

(2) Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet.

(3) Commander in Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet.

(4) Any Naval Sea Frontier Commander.

(5) Any Naval Fleet or Force Commander.

(6) Any Naval District Commandant.

(7) Any Naval Attache. The Commander or Attache with whom the application is filed is responsible for taking such action on the application as he may be empowered to do or for forwarding the application to the nearest Entry Control Commander authorized by this part to take action thereon. Applications received in the United States and those received indicating that the applicant has resided in the United States for the major portion of ten years immediately prior to date of request will normally be forwarded to the Chief of Naval Operations for action. In all cases where the forwarding activity has information regarding the applicant or his employer, appropriate comment and/or recommendation for disposition will be included in the forwarding letter.
