
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter F - Islands Under Navy Jurisdiction
##### PART 761 - NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS; NAVAL AIRSPACE RESERVATIONS, AREAS UNDER NAVY ADMINISTRATION, AND THE TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
###### Subpart C - Entry Authorization
####### ยง 761.10 Persons: Group authorizations.

Persons in the following categories, except those persons who have been denied individual authorization or have had a prior authorization revoked, may enter the defense areas indicated without individual authorization:

(a) Persons aboard U.S. public vessels or aircraft entering a Naval Defensive Sea Area or a Naval Airspace Reservation.

(b) Military members of the U.S. Armed Forces or U.S. civil service employees of the Department of Defense when traveling on official orders.

(c) U.S. ambassadors, cabinet members, elected U.S. Government officers and U.S. citizen civil service employees of the U.S. Government traveling on official orders on U.S. Government business may enter defense areas as required by their orders.

(d) Dependents of military members of the U.S. Armed Forces and U.S. citizen dependents of U.S. civil service employees traveling on official orders and entering for purposes of joining a principal permanently stationed in an area covered by this part.

(e) U.S. Navy Technicians, U.S. Army Contract Technicians, or U.S. Air Force Contract Technicians, who are traveling on official (does not include invitational) travel orders on U.S. Government business, may enter defense areas as specifically required by such orders.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Individuals on board any foreign public vessel or aircraft which has been granted diplomatic or other official U.S. Government authorization to enter an area covered by this part.

(h) Through passengers and bona fide regularly employed crew members, unless otherwise excluded, on nonpublic vessels authorized to enter areas covered by this part. This does not include an authorization to disembark at a port contiguous to or within the areas covered in this part. Application for authorization to disembark may be submitted to an Entry Control Commander having jurisdiction over the particular port.

(i) Through passengers and bona fide regularly employed crew members, unless otherwise excluded, on nonpublic aircraft authorized to enter areas covered by this part. Such persons are subject to local regulations governing entry into or movement within military air stations or facilities. Application for authorization to disembark may be submitted to an Entry Control Commander having jurisdiction over the air facility.

(j) U.S. citizen news correspondents and photographers when properly accredited by the Department of Defense to enter areas covered by this part except that special authorization is required to enter the restricted areas listed in ยง 761.4(a).
