
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter F - Islands Under Navy Jurisdiction
##### PART 761 - NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS; NAVAL AIRSPACE RESERVATIONS, AREAS UNDER NAVY ADMINISTRATION, AND THE TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
###### Subpart C - Entry Authorization
####### ยง 761.14 Aircraft: Group authorizations.

Aircraft in the following categories, except those aircraft which have been denied individual authorization or have had a prior authorization revoked, may enter the defense areas indicated without individual authorization:

(a) U.S. public aircraft to enter all defense areas.

(b) U.S. private aircraft which are under charter to the Department of Defense (including the Military Airlift Command), or operating under a contract with the Department of Defense providing for the employment of such aircraft to overfly U.S. island positions to enter defense areas as authorized by controlling Defense Department agency. If landing at U.S. military facilities is required, see ยง 761.15(a).

(c) Foreign flag aircraft for which special arrangements have been made under international agreements or treaties.

(d) Aircraft operated by companies authorized to utilize naval facilities in defense areas for regular commercial activity, to enter defense areas associated therewith. For landing clearance at U.S. military facilities, see ยง 761.15(a).

(e) Any aircraft in distress, subject to local clearance and control by senior officer present.
