
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter F - Islands Under Navy Jurisdiction
##### PART 761 - NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS; NAVAL AIRSPACE RESERVATIONS, AREAS UNDER NAVY ADMINISTRATION, AND THE TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
###### Subpart C - Entry Authorization
####### ยง 761.15 Aircraft: Individual authorizations.
######## Application; Form; Filing.

(b)Applications for authorization to navigate aircraft within the limits of defense areas shall be made by letter or telegram addressed to the appropriate entry control commander as indicated in ยง 761.9 with information copies to the Chief of Naval Operations, Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic (or Pacific) Fleet, as appropriate, and other local commanders who are known to be concerned. Applications shall include the following:

(1) Type and serial number of aircraft (the number of aircraft in flight if a mass movement is involved), nationality and name of registered owner.

(2) Name and rank of senior pilot.

*(3) Number in crew.

*(4) Number of passengers and whether military or civilian; include name (and rank) of distinguished passengers.

(5) Purpose of flight.

(6) Plan of flight route, including:

(i) Point of origin of flight and its destination.

(ii) Estimated date and times of arrival and departure at all airspaces covered by this part 761 including stops within the Trust Territory, when pertinent.

(7) Radio call signs of aircraft and radio frequencies available.

(8) Whether cameras are to be carried and whether they will be used.

*(9) Whether arms are to be carried.

*(10) Whether authorization to land as indicated in ยง 761.15(a) has been obtained.
