
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter F - Islands Under Navy Jurisdiction
##### PART 761 - NAVAL DEFENSIVE SEA AREAS; NAVAL AIRSPACE RESERVATIONS, AREAS UNDER NAVY ADMINISTRATION, AND THE TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
###### Subpart D - Additional Instructions
####### ยง 761.20 Additional regulations governing persons and vessels in Naval Defensive Sea Areas.

(a) By virtue of the authority vested in the President by section 44 of the United States Criminal Code, as amended and reenacted in 18 U.S.C. 2152, the President has prescribed the following additional regulations in Executive Order 9275 of November 23, 1942 (7 FR 9767; 1943 Cum. Supp. p. 1227) to govern persons and vessels within the limits of defensive sea areas theretofore or thereafter established.

(1) No person shall have in his possession within the limits of any defensive sea area, any camera or other device for taking pictures, or any film, plate or other device upon or out of which a photographic imprint, negative or positive, can be made, except in the performance of official duty or employment in connection with the national defense, or when authorized pursuant to the provisions of the Act approved June 25, 1942 (Pub. L. 627, 77th Congress), as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 781-785), and the regulations promulgated thereunder (7 FR 7307; 32 CFR 765.19(b)).

(2) It shall be the duty of the master or officer in charge of any vessel to take custody of and safeguard all cameras or other devices for taking pictures, or film, plate or other device upon or out of which a photographic imprint, positive or negative, can be made, the possession of which is prohibited by Executive Order 9275, from any person, prior to the time any vessel enters any defensive sea area or upon the boarding by any person of any vessel while within a defensive sea area, and to retain custody thereof until such vessel is outside the defensive sea area or the person is about to disembark.

(3) There shall be prominently displayed on board all vessels, except public war vessels of the United States manned by personnel in the naval service, a printed notice containing the regulations prescribed in Executive Order 9275.

(4) Any person violating section 1 of Executive Order 9275 (restated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) shall be liable to prosecution as provided in section 44 of the Criminal Code as amended and reenacted in 18 U.S.C. 2152.

(b) The regulations stated in paragraph (a) of this section are not a limitation on prosecution under any other statute that may have been violated by acts or omissions prohibited by Executive Order 9275.
