
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 765 - RULES APPLICABLE TO THE PUBLIC
###### ยง 765.14 Unofficial use of the seal, emblem, names, or initials of the Marine Corps.
####### Procedures for obtaining written permission.

(3)Requests for written permission to use or imitate the Marine Corps emblem, names, or initials shall be in writing and shall be directed to the CMC (ARDE). The request should, at a minimum, contain the following information:

(i) Name and address of the requester.

(ii) A description of the type of activity in which the requester is engaged or proposes to engage.

(iii) A statement of whether the requester considers the proposed use or imitation to be commercial or noncommercial, and why.

(iv) A brief description and illustration or sample of the proposed use or imitation, as well as a description of the product or service in connection with which it will be used. This description will provide sufficient detail to enable the Marine Corps to determine whether there is a reasonable tendency to suggest such use or imitation is approved, endorsed, or authorized by the Marine Corps or any other component of the Department of Defense.

(v) In the case of a noncommercial use of imitation, a copy of the charter, constitution, bylaws, and similar organizational documents of the requester, together with a detailed description of its function or purpose. Insufficiently specific requests will be returned for additional information.
