
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 766 - USE OF DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AVIATION FACILITIES BY CIVIL AIRCRAFT
###### ยง 766.5 Conditions governing use of aviation facilities by civil aircraft.
####### Repairs.

(3)(i) Aircraft requiring major repairs may be stored temporarily in damaged condition. If repairs cannot be completed within a reasonable time, the aircraft must be removed from the facility by the owner or operator of the aircraft without delay.

(ii) No aircraft will be given a major or minor overhaul.

(iii) Engine or air frame minor components may be furnished, when not available through commercial sources, provided such supplies can be spared and are not known to be in short supply. The issuance of such supplies must be approved by the commanding officer.

(iv) Minor components in short supply or major components for which there is a repeated demand can be furnished only on message authority obtained from the Aviation Supply Office, Philadelphia, PA (for continental facilities) or local fleet air command or major aviation supply depot (for extracontinental facilities). Complete engines, airplane wings, or other major items of equipment shall not be furnished under this authority.

(v) If the commanding officer believes it is desirable to furnish requested material or services in excess of the restrictions stated herein, he shall request instructions from the Chief of Naval Operations, giving a brief description of the material or services requested together with his recommendations.
