
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 766 - USE OF DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AVIATION FACILITIES BY CIVIL AIRCRAFT
###### § 766.11 Fees for landing, parking and storage.

(a) The commanding officer of a facility will collect landing, parking, and storage fees, as applicable, from all users required to have an Aviation Facility License by § 766.7 except for the following:

(1) Government aircraft (see definition § 766.2(g)) except that foreign government aircraft will be charged fees if their government charges similar fees for U.S. Government aircraft.

(2) Aircraft being produced under a contract of the U.S. Government.

(3) Any contract aircraft (see definition § 766.2(b)(1)) or other civil aircraft which is authorized to use the facility on official business.

(4) Aircraft employed to train operators in the use of precision approach systems (GCA, ILS, et al.) provided full-stop or touch-and-go landings are not performed.

(5) Aircraft owned and operated by either Navy/Marine Corps Flying Clubs or Aero Clubs or other military services which are operated as instrumentalities of the U.S. Government.

(6) Aircraft owned and operated by military personnel on active duty (Regular and Reserve) or retired, provided the aircraft is not used for commercial purposes.

(7) Landing fees incident to emergency landings for which the landing fee has been waived by the commanding officer in accordance with § 766.5(i)(5)(i).
