
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 767 - GUIDELINES FOR PERMITTING ARCHAEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS AND OTHER ACTIVITIES DIRECTED AT SUNKEN MILITARY CRAFT AND TERRESTRIAL MILITARY CRAFT UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
###### Subpart C - Enforcement Provisions for Violations of the Sunken Military Craft Act and Associated Permit Conditions
####### ยง 767.18 Notice of Violation and Assessment (NOVA).

(a) A NOVA will be issued by the Director of the NHHC and served in person or by registered, certified, return receipt requested, or express mail, or by commercial express package service, upon the respondent, or in the case of a vessel respondent, the owner of the vessel. A copy of the NOVA will be similarly served upon the permit holder, if the holder is not the respondent. The NOVA will contain:

(1) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a violation;

(2) A specific reference to the provision(s) of the SMCA, regulation, or permit violated;

(3) The findings and conclusions upon which the Director of the NHHC bases the assessment;

(4) The amount of civil penalty, enforcement costs and/or liability for damages assessed; and

(5) An advisement of the respondent's rights upon receipt of the NOVA, including a citation to the regulations governing the proceedings.

(b) The NOVA may also contain a proposal for compromise or settlement of the case.

(c) Prior to assessing a civil penalty or liability for damages, the Director of the NHHC will take into account information available to the Agency concerning any factor to be considered under the SMCA and any other information required by law or in the interests of justice. The respondent will have the opportunity to review information considered and present information, in writing, to the Director of the NHHC. At the discretion of the Director of the NHHC, a respondent will be allowed to present information in person.
