
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 770 - RULES LIMITING PUBLIC ACCESS TO PARTICULAR INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Hunting and Fishing at Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia
####### ยง 770.2 Licenses.

(a) Every person who hunts or fishes on Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA, must possess appropriate valid licenses in compliance with the Laws of the United States and the State of Virginia.

(b) In addition, hunting and fishing privilege cards, issued by the authorities at Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA, are required for all persons between the ages sixteen and sixty-four, inclusive.

(1) The privilege card may be purchased from the Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs Branch, Building 5-9, Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA.

(2) The privilege cards are effective for the same period as the Virginia hunting and fishing licenses.

(c) All hunters must obtain a Base hunting permit, and a parking permit, if applicable, from the Game Check Station, Building 5-9 Station (located at the intersection of Russell Road and MCB-1) for each day of hunting. The hunting permit must be carried by the hunter and the parking permit must be displayed on the left dashboard of parked vehicles. The hunting and parking permits must be returned within one hour after either sunset or the hour hunting is secured on holidays or during special season.

(d) Eligibility for a Base hunting permit is predicated on:

(1) Possession of required Federal and State licenses for the game to be hunted including Marine Corps Base hunting privilege card;

(2) Attendance at a safety lecture given daily except Sunday during the hunting season given at the Game Check Station. The lectures commence at the times posted in the Annual Hunting Bulletin and are posted on all base bulletin boards;

(3) Understanding of Federal, State and Base hunting regulations;

(4) And, if civilian, an executed release of U.S. Government responsibility in case of accident or injury.
