
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 770 - RULES LIMITING PUBLIC ACCESS TO PARTICULAR INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Hunting and Fishing at Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia
####### ยง 770.3 Fishing regulations.

(a) All persons possessing the proper state license and Base permit are permitted to fish in the areas designated by the Annual Fishing Regulations on Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA, on any authorized fishing day. A Base Fishing Privilege Card is required for all persons aged 16 to 65.

(b) Fishing is permitted on all waters within the boundaries of Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA, unless otherwise posted, under the conditions and restrictions and during the periods provided by Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA. Information regarding specific regulations for each fishing area must be obtained from the Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs Branch, Building 5-9 prior to use of Base fishing facilities.

(c) In addition to the requirements of the Laws of Virginia, the following additional prohibitions and requirements are in effect at Marine Corps Base, Quantico, VA.

(1) No trout lines are permitted in Marine Corps Base waters;

(2) No Large Mouth Bass will be taken, creeled or possessed in a slot limit of 12-15 inches in length. All Large Mouth Bass within this slot will be immediately returned to the water;

(3) No Striped Bass will be taken, creeled or possessed under the size of twenty (20) inches in length. All Striped Bass under this size will be immediately returned to the water.
