
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 770 - RULES LIMITING PUBLIC ACCESS TO PARTICULAR INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Hunting and Fishing at Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia
####### ยง 770.6 Restrictions.

(a) There will be no hunting on Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Years Day, or after 1200 on Thanksgiving Day.

(b) Hunters under 18 years of age must be accompanied by an adult (21 years of age or older) while hunting or in a hunting area. The adult is limited to a maximum of two underage hunters, and must stay within sight and voice contact and no more than 100 yards away from the underage hunters.

(c) The following practices or actions are expressly forbidden: Use of rifles, except muzzleloaders of .40 caliber or larger as specified below, revolvers or pistols; use of shotguns larger than 10 gauge or crossbows (this prohibition extends to carrying such weapons on the person or in a vehicle while hunting), use of buckshot to hunt any game; use of a light, attached to a vehicle or otherwise, for the purpose of spotting game; use of dogs for hunting or tracking deer; training deer dogs on the Reservation; training or running dogs in hunting areas between 1 March and 1 September; driving deer; baiting or salting traps or blinds; hunting on Sunday; molesting wildlife. Those personnel who are authorized to hunt on Base, desiring to train or exercise dogs other than deer dogs between 2 September and 28 February, may do so by obtaining Walking Pass to enter training areas at the Range Control Office. This Walking Pass is not permission to hunt, and carrying weapons under these conditions is prohibited.

(d) Hunting will not commence before one half hour before sunrise, and will end not later than sunset. The hours of sunrise and sunset are posted daily at the Game Checking Station.

(e) Weapons will not be loaded outside of hunting hours.

(f) There will be no use of a muzzleloader or slug shotgun after obtaining the daily or yearly game bag limits.

(g) There will be no possession or use of drugs or alcohol while checked out to hunt.
