
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 776 - PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT OF ATTORNEYS PRACTICING UNDER THE COGNIZANCE AND SUPERVISION OF THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 776.2 Applicability.

(a) This part applies to all "covered attorneys" as defined herein."

(b) "Covered attorneys" include:

(1) The following U.S. Government (USG) attorneys, referred to collectively as "covered USG attorneys" throughout this part:

(i) All active-duty Navy judge advocates (designator 2500 or 2505) or Marine Corps judge advocates (Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) 4402 or 9914).

(ii) All active-duty judge advocates of other U.S. armed forces who practice law or provide legal services under the cognizance and supervision of the JAG.

(iii) All civil service and contracted civilian attorneys who practice law or perform legal services under the cognizance and supervision of the JAG. This includes civilian attorneys employed by the DoN as Executive Agent for Combatant Commands, and for whom the JAG serves as the "qualifying authority" under the authority citations.

(iv) All Reserve or Retired judge advocates of the Navy or Marine Corps (and any other U.S. armed force), who, while performing official DoN duties, practice law, provide legal services under the cognizance and supervision of the JAG or are serving in non-legal MOS billets.

(v) All other attorneys appointed by the JAG (or the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps (SJA to CMC) in Marine Corps matters) to serve in billets or to provide legal services normally provided by Navy or Marine Corps judge advocates. This policy applies to officer and enlisted Reservists, active-duty personnel, and any other personnel who are licensed to practice law by any Federal or state authority but who are not members of the Judge Advocate General's Corps or who do not hold the 4402 or 9914 MOS designation in the Marine Corps.

(vi) All qualified volunteer attorneys that have been certified as legal assistance attorneys by the JAG, or his designee, pursuant to the authority citations.

(2) The following non-U.S. Government attorneys, referred to collectively as "covered non-USG attorneys" throughout this part:

(i) All civilian attorneys representing individuals in any matter for which the JAG is charged with supervising the provision of legal services. These matters include, but are not limited to, courts-martial, administrative separation boards or hearings, boards of inquiry, and disability evaluation proceedings.

(3) The term "covered attorney" does not include those civil service or civilian attorneys who practice law or perform legal services under the cognizance and supervision of the General Counsel of the Navy.

(c) Professional or personal misconduct unrelated to a covered attorney's DoN activities, while normally outside the ambit of Subpart B of this part, may be reviewed under procedures established herein and may provide the basis for decisions by the JAG regarding the covered attorney's continued qualification to provide legal services in DoN matters.

(d) Although subpart B of this part do not apply to non-attorneys, they do define the type of ethical conduct that the public and the military community have a right to expect from DoN legal personnel. Accordingly, Subpart B of this part shall serve as the model of ethical conduct for the following personnel when involved with the delivery of legal services under the supervision of the JAG:

(1) Navy Legalmen and Marine Corps legal administrative officers, legal service specialists, and legal services reporters;

(2) Limited duty officers (LAW);

(3) Legal interns; and

(4) civilian support personnel including paralegals, legal secretaries, legal technicians, secretaries, court reporters, and other personnel holding similar positions. Covered USG attorneys who supervise non-attorney DON employees are responsible for their ethical conduct to the extent provided for in ยง 776.55 of this part.
