
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VI - Department of the Navy
#### Subchapter G - Miscellaneous Rules
##### PART 776 - PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT OF ATTORNEYS PRACTICING UNDER THE COGNIZANCE AND SUPERVISION OF THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL
###### Subpart B - Rules of Professional Conduct
####### § 776.47 Special responsibilities of a trial counsel and other government counsel.

(a) A trial counsel in a criminal case shall:

(1) Recommend to the convening authority that any charge or specification not supported by probable cause be withdrawn;

(2) Make reasonable efforts to assure that the accused has been advised of the right to, and the procedure for obtaining, counsel and has been given reasonable opportunity to obtain counsel;

(3) Not seek to obtain from an unrepresented accused a waiver of important pretrial rights;

(4) Make timely disclosure to the defense of all evidence or information known to the trial counsel that tends to negate the guilt of the accused or mitigates the offense, and, in connection with sentencing, disclose to the defense all unprivileged mitigating information known to the trial counsel, except when the trial counsel is relieved of this responsibility by a protective order or regulation;

(5) Exercise reasonable care to prevent investigators, law enforcement personnel, employees, or other persons assisting or associated with the trial counsel from making an extrajudicial statement that the trial counsel would be prohibited from making under § 776.45 of this part; and

(6) Except for statements that are necessary to inform the public of the nature and extent of the trial counsel's actions and that serve a legitimate law enforcement purpose, refrain from making extrajudicial comments that have a substantial likelihood of heightening public condemnation of the accused.

(b) Trial counsel and other government counsel shall exercise reasonable care to avoid intercepting, seizing, copying, viewing, or listening to communications protected by the attorney-client privilege during investigation of a suspected offense (particularly when conducting government-sanctioned searches where attorney-client privileged communications may be present), as well as in the preparation or prosecution of a case. Such communications expressly include, but are not limited to, land-line telephone conversations, facsimile transmissions, U.S. mail, and Email. Trial counsel and other government counsel must not infringe upon the confidential nature of attorney-client privileged communications and are responsible for the actions of their agents or representatives when they induce or assist them in intercepting, seizing, copying, viewing, or listening to such privileged communications.

(c)(1) The trial counsel represents the United States in the prosecution of special and general courts-martial. See Article 38(a), UCMJ; see also R.C.M. 103(16), 405(d)(3)(A), and 502(d)(5). Accordingly, a trial counsel has the responsibility of administering justice and is not simply an advocate. This responsibility carries with it specific obligations to see that the accused is accorded procedural justice and that guilt is decided upon the basis of sufficient evidence. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section recognizes that the trial counsel does not have all the authority vested in modern civilian prosecutors. The authority to convene courts-martial, and to refer and withdraw specific charges, is vested in convening authorities. Trial counsel may have the duty, in certain circumstances, to bring to the court's attention any charge that lacks sufficient evidence to support a conviction. See United States v. Howe, 37 M.J. 1062 (NMCMR 1993). Such action should be undertaken only after consultation with a supervisory attorney and the convening authority. See also § 776.42(d) of this part (governing ex parte proceedings). Applicable law may require other measures by the trial counsel. Knowing disregard of those obligations or a systematic abuse of prosecutorial discretion could constitute a violation of § 776.69 of this part.

(2) Paragraph (a)(3) of this section does not apply to an accused appearing pro se with the approval of the tribunal. Nor does it forbid the lawful questioning of a suspect who has knowingly waived the rights to counsel and to remain silent.

(3) The exception in paragraph (a)(4) of this section recognizes that a trial counsel may seek an appropriate protective order from the tribunal if disclosure of information to the defense could result in substantial harm to an individual or organization or to the public interest. This exception also recognizes that applicable statutes and regulations may proscribe the disclosure of certain information without proper authorization.

(4) A trial counsel may comply with paragraph (a)(5) of this section in a number of ways. These include personally informing others of the trial counsel's obligations under § 776.46 of this part, conducting training of law enforcement personnel, and appropriately supervising the activities of personnel assisting the trial counsel.

(5) Paragraph (a)(6) of this section supplements § 776.45 of this part, which prohibits extrajudicial statements that have a substantial likelihood of prejudicing an adjudicatory proceeding. A trial counsel can, and should, avoid comments that have no legitimate law enforcement purpose and have a substantial likelihood of increasing public opprobrium of the accused. Nothing in this Comment is intended to restrict the statements that a trial counsel may make that comply with § 776.45 of this part.

(6) The "ABA Standards for Criminal Justice: The Prosecution Function," (3d ed. 1993), has been used by appellate courts in analyzing issues concerning trial counsel conduct. To the extent consistent with these Rules, the ABA standards may be used to guide trial counsel in the prosecution of criminal cases. See United States v. Howe, 37 M.J. 1062 (NMCRS 1993); United States v. Dancy, 38 M.J. 1 (CMA 1993); United States v. Hamilton, 41 M.J. 22 (CMA 1994); United States v. Meek, 44 M.J. 1 (CMA 1996).

(d) [Reserved]
