
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart C - Personnel Claims (31 U.S.C. 3701, 3721)
####### ยง 842.25 Claims payable.
######## Authorized location.

(a)Claims are only payable when the claimed property is located in an authorized location. There must be some connection between the claimant's service and the location of the claimed property. Duty locations where personal property is used, stored or held because of official duties are authorized places. Other authorized places may include:

(1) Any location on a military installation not otherwise excluded.

(2) Any office, building, recreation area, or real estate the Air Force or any other DoD element uses or controls.

(3) Any place a military member is required or ordered to be pursuant to their duties and while performing those duties.

(4) Assigned Government housing or quarters in the United States or provided in kind. The Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act specifically prohibits payment for loss of or damage to property in quarters within the U.S. unless the housing or quarters are assigned or otherwise provided in kind. Base housing that has not been privatized is generally considered assigned or provided in kind wherever it is located.

(i) Privatized housing or quarters within the United States subject to the Military Housing Privatization Initiative located within the fence line of a military installation or on federal land in which the DoD has an interest is considered assigned or otherwise provided in kind for the purposes of the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act.

(ii) [Reserved]

(5) Housing or quarters outside the United States. Outside the US, authorized off-base quarters, as well as assigned quarters, including quarters in U.S. territories and possessions, are authorized places. The residence of a civilian employee is not an authorized location if the employee is a local inhabitant.

(6) Temporary duty (TDY) quarters and locations en route to the TDY destination. Significant deviations from the direct travel route are not authorized locations.

(7) Permanent change of station (PCS) temporary quarters and locations enroute to the PCS destination. Significant deviations from the direct travel route are not authorized locations.

(8) Entitlement and benefit locations. For these locations to be authorized, the claimant must be using them for the intended purpose and the property must be reasonably linked to that purpose.

(9) Locations where personal property shipped or stored at government expense are found. Government facilities where property is stored at the claimant's expense or for their convenience without an entitlement are not authorized places.
