
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart C - Personnel Claims (31 U.S.C. 3701, 3721)
####### ยง 842.25 Claims payable.
######## Privately owned vehicles (POV).

(c)Pay for damage to or loss of POVs caused by government negligence under subpart F or K. Pay under this subpart for damage or loss incident to:

(1) Theft of POVs or their contents, or vandalism to parked POVs:

(i) Anywhere on a military installation.

(ii) At offbase quarters overseas.

(iii) At other authorized places.

(2) Government shipment:

(i) To or from oversea areas incident to PCS.

(ii) On a space available reimbursable basis.

(iii) As a replacement vehicle under the provisions of the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR).

(3) Authorized use for government duty other than PCS moves. The owner must have specific advance permission of the appropriate supervisor or official. Adequate proof of the permission and of nonavailability of official transportation must be provided prior to paying such claims. Claims arising while the claimant is deviating from the principal route or purpose of the trip should not be paid, but claims occurring after the claimant returns to the route or purpose should be paid. Travel between quarters and place of duty, including parking, is not authorized use for government duty.

(4) Paint spray, smokestack emission, and other similar operations by the Air Force on a military installation caused by a contractor's negligence. (Process the claim under subpart F or K, if government negligence causes such losses.) If a contractor's operation caused the damage:

(i) Refer the claim first to the contractor for settlement.

(ii) Settle the claim under this subpart if the contractor does not pay it or excessively delays payment, and assert a claim against the contractor.
