
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart C - Personnel Claims (31 U.S.C. 3701, 3721)
####### ยง 842.26 Claims not payable.

A claim is not payable if:

(a) It is not incident to the claimant's service.

(b) The loss or damage is caused in whole or in part by the negligence or wrongful act of the claimant, the claimant's spouse, agent, or employee.

(c) It is a subrogation or assigned claim.

(d) The loss is recovered or recoverable from an insurer or other source unless the settlement authority determines there is good cause for not claiming against the insurer.

(e) It is intangible property including bank books, promissory notes, stock certificates, bonds, baggage checks, insurance policies, checks, money orders, travelers checks and credit cards.

(f) It is government property, including issued clothing items carried on an individual issue supply account. (Clothing not carried on an individual issue supply account which is stolen or clothing lost or damaged in transit may be considered as a payable item when claimed.)

(g) It is enemy property.

(h) It is a loss within the United States at offbase quarters the government did not provide.

(i) It is damage to real property.

(j) It is an appraisal fee, unless the settlement authority requires one to adjudicate the claim.

(k) It is property acquired or shipped for persons other than the claimant or the claimant's immediate family; however, a claim for property acquired for bona fide gifts may be paid.

(l) It is an article held for sale, resale, or used primarily in a private business.

(m) It is an item acquired, possessed, shipped, or stored in violation of any U.S. Armed Force directive or regulation.

(n) It is an item fraudulently claimed.

(o) It is for charges for labor performed by the owner or immediate family member.

(p) It is for financial loss due to changed or cancelled orders.

(q) It is for expenses of enroute repair of a mobile or manufactured home.

(r) It is a loss of use of personal property.

(s) It is an attorney or agent fee.

(t) It is the cost of preparing a claim, other than estimate fees.

(u) It is an inconvenience expense.

(v) It is a loss of, or damage to POV driven during PCS.

(w) It is a personal property insurance premium.

(x) It is a claim for a thesis or other similar papers, except for the cost of materials.

(y) It is damage to, or loss of a rental vehicle which TDY or PCS orders authorized.

(z) It is a cost to relocate a telephone or mobile or manufactured home due to a government ordered quarters move.
