
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart D - Military Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2733)
####### ยง 842.32 Delegations of authority.
######## Special exceptions.

(f)Do not settle or deny claims for the following reasons without AFLOA/JACC approval:

(1) Legal malpractice.

(2) On the job personal injury or death of an employee of a government contractor or subcontractor.

(3) Assault, battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, abuse of process, or malicious prosecution committed by an investigative or law enforcement officer.

(4) On-base animal bite cases.

(5) Personal injury from asbestos or radon.

(6) Claims based upon an act or omission of an employee of the government, exercising due care, in the execution of a statute or regulation.

(7) Claims based upon the exercise or performance or the failure to exercise or perform a discretionary function or duty on the part of a federal agency or an employee of the government.

(8) Claims not payable because payment is not in the best interests of the United States, is contrary to public policy, or is otherwise contrary to the basic intent of the MCA.

(9) Claims presented by a national, or a corporation controlled by a national, of a country at war or engaged in armed conflict with the United States, or any country allied with such enemy country.

(10) Medical malpractice.
