
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart D - Military Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2733)
####### ยง 842.41 Applicable law.
######## Claims in foreign countries.,Restatement of the

(2)In claims arising in a foreign country, where the claim is for personal injury, death, or damage to or loss of real or personal property caused by an act or omission alleged to be negligent, wrongful, or otherwise involving fault of military personnel or civilian officers or employees of the United States acting within the scope of their employment, liability or the United States is determined according to federal case law interpreting the FTCA. Where the FTCA requires application of the law of the place where the act or omission occurred, settlement authorities will use the rules set forth in the currently adopted edition of theLaw, published by the American Law Institute, to evaluate the liability of the Air Force, subject to the following rules:

(i) Foreign rules and regulations governing the operation of motor vehicles (rules of the road) are applied to the extent those rules are not specifically superseded or preempted by United States military traffic regulations.

(ii) Absolute or strict liability will not apply for claims not arising from noncombat activities.

(iii) Hedonic damages are not payable.

(iv) The collateral source doctrine does not apply.

(v) Joint and several liability does not apply. Payment will be made only upon the portion of loss, damage, injury or death attributable to the Armed Forces of the United States.

(vi) Future economic loss will be discounted to present value after deducting for federal income taxes and, in cases of wrongful death, personal consumption.
