
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart D - Military Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2733)
####### ยง 842.40 Claims not payable.
######## i.e.,

(1) MCA claims arising from noncombat activities in the U.S. are not covered by the FTCA because more elements are needed to state an FTCA claim than are needed to state a claim under the MCA for noncombat activities. All FTCA claims are based on elements of traditional tort liability (duty, breach, causation, and damages); that is, they are fault based. Noncombat activity claims under the MCA are based solely on causation and damages. Because MCA claims for noncombat activities are not fault based, they are not covered by the FTCA.

(2) Claims for incident-to-service damage to vehicles caused by the negligence of a member or employee of the armed forces acting in the scope of employment are paid under the MCA, instead of the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act.

(b) Arises with respect to the assessment or collection of any customs duty, or the detention of any goods or merchandise by any U.S. officer of customs or excise, or any other U.S. law enforcement officer. Note: This includes loss or damage to property detained by members of the Security Forces or Office of Special Investigation (OSI).

(c) Is cognizable under U.S. admiralty and maritime law, to include:

(1) The Suits in Admiralty Act, 46 U.S.C. 30901 and following.

(2) The Death on the High Seas Act, 46 U.S.C. 30301 and following.

(3) The Public Vessels Act, 46 U.S.C. 31101 and following.

(4) Exception: Claims arising from noncombat activities may be paid under the MCA, even if they are also cognizable under paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(d) Arises out of assault, battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious prosecution, or abuse of process. Exception: Unless such actions were committed by an investigative or law enforcement officer of the U.S. who is empowered by law to conduct searches, seize evidence, or make arrests for violations of federal law.

(e) Arises out of libel, slander, misrepresentation, or deceit.

(f) Arises out of an interference with contract rights.

(g) Arises out of the combat activities of U.S. military forces.

(h) Is for the personal injury or death of a member of the Armed Forces of the U.S. incident to the member's service.

(i) Is for the personal injury or death of any person for workplace injuries covered by the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, 5 U.S.C. 8101, and following.

(j) Is for the personal injury or death of any employee of the US, including nonappropriated fund employees, for workplace injuries covered by the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U.S.C. 901, and following.
