
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart D - Military Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2733)
####### ยง 842.40 Claims not payable.
######## e.g.,

(k) Is for a taking of property,by technical trespass or over flight of aircraft.

(l) Is for patent or copyright infringement.

(m) Results wholly from the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant.

(n) Is for the reimbursement of medical, hospital, or burial expenses furnished at the expense of the US, either directly or through contractual payments.

(o) Arises from contractual transactions, express or implied (including rental agreements, sales agreements, leases, and easements), that:

(1) Are payable or enforceable under oral or written contracts; or

(2) Arise out of an irregular procurement or implied contract.

(p) Is for the personal injury or death of military or civilian personnel of a foreign government incident to their service.

(q) Is based on an act or omission of an employee of the government, exercising due care, in the execution of a statute or regulation, whether or not such statute or regulation is valid. Do not deny claims solely on this exception without the prior approval of USAF/JACC. Claims under the noncombat activities provision of this subpart may be paid even if this paragraph (q) applies. Is based on the exercise or performance of, or the failure to exercise or perform, a discretionary function or duty on the part of a federal agency or a Federal Government employee, whether or not the discretion involved is abused. Do not deny claims solely on this exception without the prior approval of USAF/JACC. Exception: Claims under the noncombat activities provision may be paid even if this paragraph (q) applies.

(r) Is not in the best interests of the US, is contrary to public policy, or is otherwise contrary to the basic intent of the MCA. Examples include, but are not limited to, when a claimant's criminal conduct or failure to comply with a nonpunitive regulation is a proximate cause of the loss. Prior approval must be obtained from USAF/JACC before denying claims solely on this exception.

(s) Arises out of an act or omission of any employee of the government in administering the provisions of the Trading With the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. app. 1-44.

(t) Is for damages caused by the imposition or establishment of a quarantine by the U.S.

(u) Arises from the fiscal operations of the Department of the Treasury or from the regulation of the monetary system.

(v) Arises from the activities of the Tennessee Valley Authority.

(w) Arises from the activities of a federal land bank, a federal intermediate credit bank, or a bank for cooperatives.

(x) Is for the personal injury or death of any government contractor employee for whom benefits are available under any worker's compensation law, or under any contract or agreement providing employee benefits through insurance, local law, or custom when the U.S. pays insurance either directly or as part of the consideration under the contract. Only USAF/JACC may act on these claims.

(y) Is for damage, injury or death from or by flood or flood waters at any place.

(z) Is for damage to property or other losses of a state, commonwealth, territory, or the District of Columbia caused by Air National Guard personnel engaged in training or duty under 32 U.S.C. 316, 502, 503, 504, or 505 who are assigned to a unit maintained by that state, commonwealth, territory, or the District of Columbia.
