
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart D - Military Claims Act (10 U.S.C. 2733)
####### ยง 842.40 Claims not payable.
######## et seq.

(aa) Is for damage to property or for any death or personal injury arising out of activities of any federal agency or employee of the government in carrying out the provisions of the Disaster Relief Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5121,), as amended.

(bb) Arises from activities that present a political question.

(cc) Arises from private, as distinguished from government, transactions.

(dd) Is based solely on compassionate grounds.

(ee) Is for rent, damage, or other expenses or payments involving the regular acquisition, use, possession, or disposition of real property or interests therein by and for the U.S.

(ff) Is presented by a national, or a corporation controlled by a national, of a country at war or engaged in armed conflict with the U.S., or any country allied with such enemy country unless the appropriate settlement authority determines that the claimant is, and at the time of the incident was, friendly to the U.S. A prisoner of war or an interned enemy alien is not excluded as to a claim for damage, loss, or destruction of personal property in the custody of the U.S. otherwise payable. Forward claims considered not payable under this paragraph (ff), with recommendations for disposition, to USAF/JACC.

(gg) Arises out of the loss, miscarriage, or negligent transmission of letters or postal matter by the U.S. Postal Service or its agents or employees.

(hh) Is for damage to or loss of bailed property when the bailor specifically assumes such risk.

(ii) Is for property damage, personal injury, or death occurring in a foreign country to an inhabitant of a foreign country.

(jj) Is for interest incurred prior to the payment of a claim.

(kk) Arises out of matters which are in litigation against the U.S.

(ll) Is for attorney fees or costs in connection with pursuing an administrative or judicial remedy against the U.S. or any of its agencies.

(mm) Is for bail, interest or inconvenience expenses incurred in connection with the preparation and presentation of the claim.

(nn) Is for a failure to use a duty of care to keep premises owned or under the control of the U.S. safe for use for any recreational purpose, or for a failure by the U.S. to give any warning of hazardous conditions on such premises to persons entering for a recreational purpose unless there is a willful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, or unless consideration was paid to the U.S. (including a nonappropriated fund instrumentality) to use the premises.
