
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart E - Foreign Claims (10 U.S.C. 2734)
####### ยง 842.54 Payment criteria.

The following criteria is considered before determining liability.

(a) The incident causing the damage or injury must arise in a foreign country and be caused by noncombatant activities of the U.S. Armed Forces or by the negligent or wrongful acts of civilian employees or military members of the Armed Forces.

(1) It is a prerequisite to U.S. responsibility if the employee causing the damage or injury is a local inhabitant, a prisoner of war, or an interned enemy alien. These persons are "employees" within the meaning of the Foreign Claims Act (FCA) only when in the service of the United States. Ordinarily, a slight deviation as to time or place does not constitute a departure from the scope of employment. The purpose of the activity and whether it furthers the general interest of the United States is considered. If the claim arose from the operation or use of a U.S. Armed Forces vehicle or other equipment by such a person, pay it provided local law imposes liability on the owner of the vehicle or other equipment in the circumstances involved.

(2) It is immaterial when the claim arises from the acts or omissions of any U.S. Armed Forces member or employee not listed in ยง 842.64(c)(1). The Act imposes responsibility on the United States when it places a U.S. citizen or non-US citizen employee in a position to cause the injury or damage. If the cause is a criminal act clearly outside the scope of employment, ordinarily pay the claim and consider disciplinary action against the offender.

(b) Scope of employment is considered in the following situations.

(1) It is a prerequisite to U.S. responsibility if the employee causing the damage or injury is a local inhabitant, a prisoner of war, or an interned enemy alien. These persons are "employees" within the meaning of the Foreign Claims Act (FCA) only when in the service of the United States. Ordinarily, a slight deviation as to time or place does not constitute a departure from the scope of employment. The purpose of the activity and whether it furthers the general interest of the United States is considered. If the claim arose from the operation or use of a U.S. Armed Forces vehicle or other equipment by such a person, pay it provided local law imposes liability on the owner of the vehicle or other equipment in the circumstances involved.

(2) It is immaterial when the claim arises from the acts or omissions of any U.S. Armed Forces member or employee not listed in ยง 842.64(c)(1) of this part. The Act imposes responsibility on the United States when it places a U.S. citizen or non-US citizen employee in a position to cause the injury or damage. If the cause is a criminal act clearly outside the scope of employment, ordinarily pay the claim and consider disciplinary action against the offender.
