
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart E - Foreign Claims (10 U.S.C. 2734)
####### ยง 842.55 Claims not payable.
######## et seq.

(2) The Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901,).

(3) A U.S. contract or agreement providing employee benefits through insurance, local law, or custom, where the United States pays for them either directly or as part of the consideration under the contract. (See 42 U.S.C. 1651 and 42 U.S.C. 1701.) The Judge Advocate General or Chief, Claims and Tort Litigation Staff, AFLOA/JACC, may authorize an award where local benefits are not adequate. Local benefits are deducted from any award.

(m) Results from an action by an enemy, or directly or indirectly from an act of the U.S. Armed Forces in combat, except that a claim may be allowed if it arises from an accident or malfunction incident to the operation of an aircraft of the U.S. Armed Forces, including its airborne ordnance, indirectly related to combat, and occurring while preparing for or going to, or returning from a combat mission.

(n) Is based on negligence of a concessionaire or other independent contractor.

(o) Arises out of personal activities of family members, guests, servants, or activities of the pets of members and employees of the U.S. Armed Forces.

(p) Is the subject of litigation against the United States or its employees. This restriction does not apply to joint criminal/civil proceedings in a foreign court. Claims settlement may be authorized by AFLOA/JACC in appropriate cases on request.

(q) Is covered under U.S. admiralty or maritime laws, unless authorized by The Judge Advocate General or Chief, Claims and Tort Litigation Staff.

(r) Is one for which a foreign government is responsible under SOFA, treaty, or other agreement. However, AFLOA/JACC may authorize payment of a claim where the foreign government refuses to recognize its legal responsibilities and the claimant has no other means of compensation.

(s) Is not in the best interest of the United States, is contrary to public policy, or otherwise contrary to the basic intent of the FCA. Claims considered not payable on this basis will be forwarded to USAF/JACC for final decision.

(t) Is presented by a national, or a corporation controlled by a national, of a country at war or engaged in armed conflict with the United States, or any country allied with such enemy country unless the settlement authority determines the claimant is, and at the time of the incident was, friendly to the United States. Exception: A prisoner of war or interned enemy alien is not excluded from filing a claim for damage, loss, or destruction of personal property within the U.S. Armed Forces' custody if the claim is otherwise payable.
