
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart E - Foreign Claims (10 U.S.C. 2734)
####### ยง 842.56 Applicable law.

This section provides guidance to determine the applicable law for assessment of liability.

(a) In adjudicating FCA claims, settlement authorities will follow the law, customs, and standards of the country where the claim arose, except:

(1) Causation is determined based upon general principles of U.S. tort law found in federal case law and standard legal publications.

(2) Joint and several liability does not apply. Payment is based solely on the portion of loss, damage, injury or death attributable to the U.S. Armed Forces.

(3) If lost income or lost profits is recoverable under the law where the claim arose, they shall be limited to net lost income or net lost profits, taking into account appropriate deductions for taxes, regular business expenditures, and in the case of wrongful death, personal consumption during the loss period.

(b) Settlement authorities will not deduct compensation from collateral sources except for:

(1) Direct payments by a member or civilian employee of the U.S. Armed Forces for damages (not solatia).

(2) Any payments recovered or recoverable from an insurance policy when premiums were paid, directly or indirectly, by the United States, or a member or civilian employee of the U.S. Armed Forces; or when the member or employee has the benefit of the insurance (such as when a U.S. member or employee borrows a vehicle of a local national, and the vehicle carries insurance for the benefit of any driver with permission to drive the vehicle).
