
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart E - Foreign Claims (10 U.S.C. 2734)
####### ยง 842.55 Claims not payable.

A claim is not payable when it:

(a) Is waived under an applicable international agreement, or pursuant to an applicable international agreement, a receiving state should adjudicate and pay the claim. However, if a foreign government subject to such an international agreement disputes its legal responsibilities under the agreement, and the claimant has no other means of compensation, USAF/JACC may authorize payment.

(b) Is purely contractual in nature.

(c) Is for attorney fees, punitive damages, a judgment or interest on a judgment, bail, or court costs. FCC should consider providing early notice to claimants that attorney fees are not payable as an item of damage under the FCA.

(d) Accrues from a private contractual relationship between U.S. personnel and third parties about property leases, public utilities, hiring of domestic servants, and debts of any description. This claim is sent for action to the commander of the person concerned (see 32 CFR part 818).

(e) Is based solely on compassionate grounds.

(f) Is a paternity claim.

(g) Is for patent or copyright infringement.

(h) Results wholly from the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant or agent.

(i) Is for rent, damage, or other payments involving regular acquisition, possession, and disposition of real property by or for the Air Force.

(j) Is filed by a Communist country or its inhabitants, unless authorized by AFLOA/JACC.

(k) Is for real property taken by a continuing trespass.

(l) Is for personal injury or death of a person covered by:
