
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart H - Admiralty Claims (10 U.S.C. 9801-9804, 9806; 46 U.S.C. 740)
####### ยง 842.74 Delegations of authority.

(a) The following officials have the authority to settle a claim against the Air Force in the amounts provided:

(1) The Secretary of the Air Force has the authority to:

(i) Settle or deny a claim in any amount. Settlements for payment of more than $500,000 are certified to Congress for payment.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) The following individuals have delegated authority to settle claims for $100,000 or less:

(i) The Judge Advocate General.

(ii) The Deputy Judge Advocate General.

(iii) The Director of Civil Law.

(iv) The Chief and Deputy Chief, Claims and Tort Litigation staff.

(b) Delegation of settlement authority on claims in favor of the United States.

(1) The Secretary of the Air Force has the authority to settle claims for damage to property under the jurisdiction of the Air Force in an amount not to exceed $500,000, and to settle claims for salvage services performed by the Air Force in any amount.

(2) AFLOA/JACC refers all claims for damage to property under the jurisdiction of the Air Force for more than $500,000 to the Department of Justice.

(3) The following individuals have delegated authority to settle claims for $100,000 or less and deny them in any amount:

(i) The Judge Advocate General.

(ii) The Deputy Judge Advocate General.

(iii) The Director of Civil Law.

(iv) The Chief and Deputy Chief, Claims and Tort Litigation Division.
