
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter D - Claims and Litigation
##### PART 842 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS
###### Subpart J - Property Damage Tort Claims in Favor of the United States (31 U.S.C. 3701, 3711-3719)
####### ยง 842.87 Compromise, termination, and suspension of collection.

This section establishes the guidelines for compromise, termination, or suspension of a claim.

(a) Compromise of a claim is allowable when:

(1) The tort-feasor is unable to pay the full amount within a reasonable time. (A sworn statement showing the debtor's assets and liabilities, income, expenses, and insurance coverage should be obtained and included in the claim file).

(2) The Government is unable to collect a claim in full within a reasonable time even though the enforced collection proceedings are used for collection.

(3) The cost to collect does not justify enforced collection of the full amount.

(4) The government may have difficulty proving its case in court for the full amount claimed.

(b) Compromise is not allowable when there may be fraud, misrepresentation, or violation of antitrust laws. The Department of Justice must authorize compromise of such claims.

(c) Termination of collection is allowable when:

(1) The government is unable to collect the debt after exhausting all collection methods.

(2) The government is unable to locate the tort-feasor.

(3) The cost to collect will exceed recovery.

(4) The claim is legally without merit.

(5) The evidence does not substantiate the claim.

(d) Suspension of collection is allowable when:

(1) The government is unable to locate tort-feasor.

(2) The tort-feasor is presently unable to pay but:

(i) The statute of limitations is tolled or is running anew.

(ii) Future collection may be possible.
