
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter F - Aircraft
##### PART 855 - CIVIL AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS
###### Subpart B - Civil Aircraft Landing Permits
####### ยง 855.6 Aircraft exempt from the requirement for a civil aircraft landing permit.

(a) Any aircraft owned by:

(1) Any other US Government agency.

(2) US Air Force aero clubs established as prescribed in AFI 34-117, Air Force Aero Club Program, and AFMAN 3-132, Air Force Aero Club Operations.

(3) Aero clubs of other US military services.

(4) A US State, County, Municipality, or other political subdivision, when operating to support official business at any level of Government.

(b) Any civil aircraft under:

(1) Lease or contractual agreement for exclusive US Government use on a long-term basis and operated on official business by or for a US Government agency; for example, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Department of the Interior, or Department of Energy.

(2) Lease or contractual agreement to the Air Force for Air Force Civil Air Patrol (CAP) liaison purposes and operated by an Air Force CAP liaison officer on official Air Force business.

(3) CAP control for a specific mission directed by the Air Force.

(4) Coast Guard control for a specific mission directed by the Coast Guard.

(5) Contractual agreement to any US, State, or local Government agency in support of operations involving safety of life or property as a result of a disaster.

(6) Government furnished property or bailment contract for use by a contractor, provided the Federal, State, or local Government has retained liability responsibilities.

(7) Civil aircraft transporting critically ill or injured individuals or transplant organs to or from an Air Force installation.

(8) Historic aircraft being delivered for Air Force museum exhibits under the provisions of AFI 84-103, Museum System.
