
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter F - Aircraft
##### PART 855 - CIVIL AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 855.2 Responsibilities.

(a) As the program manager for joint use, the Civil Aviation Branch, Bases and Units Division, Directorate of Operations (HQ USAF/XOOBC), ensures that all impacts have been considered and addressed before forwarding a joint-use proposal or agreement to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Installations (SAF/MII), who holds decision authority. All decisions are subject to the environmental impact analysis process as directed by the Environmental Planning Division, Directorate of Environment (HQ USAF/CEVP), and the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (SAF/MIQ). The Air Force Real Estate Agency (AFREA/MI) handles the leases for Air Force-owned land or facilities that may be included in an agreement for joint use.

(b) HQ USAF/XOOBC determines the level of decision authority for landing permits. It delegates decision authority for certain types of use to major commands and installation commanders.

(c) HQ USAF/XOOBC makes the decisions on all requests for exceptions or waivers to this part and related Air Force instructions. The decision process includes consultation with other affected functional area managers when required. Potential impacts on current and future Air Force policies and operations strongly influence such decisions.

(d) Major commands, direct reporting units, and field operating agencies may issue supplements to establish command-unique procedures permitted by and consistent with this part.
