
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter F - Aircraft
##### PART 855 - CIVIL AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS
###### Subpart B - Civil Aircraft Landing Permits
####### ยง 855.14 Unauthorized landings.
######## Unauthorized landing procedures.

(a)The installation commander or a designated representative will identify an unauthorized landing as either an emergency landing, an inadvertent landing, or an intentional landing. An unauthorized landing may be designated as inadvertent or intentional whether or not the operator has knowledge of the provisions of this part, and whether or not the operator filed a flight plan identifying the installation as a destination. Aircraft must depart the installation as soon as practical. On all unauthorized landings, the installation commander or a designated representative:

(1) Informs the operator of subpart B procedures and the requirement for notifying the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) as specified in section 6 of the FAA Airman's Information Manual.

(2) Notifies the Federal Aviation Flight Standards District Office (FSDO) by telephone or telefax, followed by written notification using FAA Form 8020-9, 8020-11, or 8020-17, as appropriate. A copy of the written notification must be provided to HQ USAF/XOOBC.

(3) Ensures the operator completes a DD Form 2402, and collects applicable charges. (In some instances, it may be necessary to arrange to bill the user for the appropriate charges.) DD Form 2402 need not be completed for commercial carriers if it is known that the form is already on file at HQ USAF/XOOBC.

(4) In a foreign country, notifies the local US Defense Attache Office (USDAO) by telephone or telefax and, where applicable, the appropriate USDAO in the country of aircraft registry, followed by written notification with an information copy to HQ USAF/XOOBC and the civil aviation authority of the country or countries concerned.
