
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter F - Aircraft
##### PART 855 - CIVIL AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS
###### Subpart B - Civil Aircraft Landing Permits
####### ยง 855.13 Civil fly-ins.

(a) Civil aircraft operators may be invited to a specified Air Force airfield for:

(1) A base open house to perform or provide a static display.

(2) A flying safety seminar.

(b) Civil fly-in procedures:

(1) The installation commander or a designated representative:

(i) Requests approval from the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU with an information copy to HQ USAF/XOOBC/XOOO and SAF/PAC.

(ii) Ensures that DD Form 2402 is completed by each user.

(2) The MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU ensures HQ USAF/XOOBC/XOOO and SAF/PAC are advised of the approval or disapproval for the fly-in.

(3) Aerial performance by civil aircraft at an Air Force open house requires MAJCOM or FOA approval and an approved landing permit as specified in AFI 35-201, Community Relations. Regardless of the aircraft's historic military significance, DD Forms 2400, 2401, and 2402 must be submitted and approved before the performance. The permit can be approved at MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or installation level. Use will be authorized only for the period of the event. Fly-in procedures do not apply to aircraft transporting passengers (revenue or non-revenue) for the purpose of attending the open house or demonstration flights associated with marketing a product.
