
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter F - Aircraft
##### PART 855 - CIVIL AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS
###### Subpart B - Civil Aircraft Landing Permits
####### ยง 855.14 Unauthorized landings.
######## Intentional unauthorized landings.

(d)(1) The installation commander may categorize an unauthorized landing as intentional when there is unequivocal evidence that the pilot deliberately:

(i) Landed without an approved DD Form 2401 on board the aircraft.

(ii) Landed for a purpose not approved on the DD Form 2401.

(iii) Operated an aircraft not of a model or registration number on the approved DD Form 2401.

(iv) Did not request or obtain the required final approval from the installation commander or a designated representative at least 24 hours before aircraft arrival.

(v) Did not obtain landing clearance from the air traffic control tower.

(vi) Landed with an expired DD Form 2401.

(vii) Obtained landing authorization through fraudulent methods, or

(viii) Landed after having been denied a request to land from any Air Force authority, including the control tower.

(2) Normal landing fees and an unauthorized landing fee must be charged. Intentional unauthorized landings increase reporting, processing, and staffing costs; therefore, the unauthorized landing fee for paragraph (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(vi) of this section will be increased by 100 percent. The unauthorized landing fee will be increased 200 percent for paragraph (d)(1)(vii) and (d)(1)(viii) of this section.

(3) Intentional unauthorized landings may be prosecuted as a criminal trespass, especially if a debarment letter has been issued. Repeated intentional unauthorized landings prejudice the user's FAA operating authority and jeopardize future use of Air Force airfields.
