
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter F - Aircraft
##### PART 855 - CIVIL AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS
###### Subpart B - Civil Aircraft Landing Permits
####### ยง 855.12 Processing a permit application.

Upon receipt of an application (DD Forms 2400, 2401, and 2402) for use of an Air Force airfield, the decision authority:

(a) Determines the availability of the airfield and its capability to accommodate the purpose of use requested.

(b) Determines the validity of the request and ensures all entries on DD Forms 2400, 2401, and 2402 are in conformance with this part.

(c) Approves DD Form 2401 (with conditions or limitations noted) by completing all items in Section II-For Use by Approving Authority as follows:

(1) Period of Use (Block 7): The "From" date will be either the first day of approved use or the first day of insurance coverage. The "From" date cannot precede the first day of insurance coverage shown on the DD Form 2400. The "Thru" date is determined by the insurance expiration date and or the purpose of use. For example, the period of use for participants in an Air Force open house will be determined by both insurance coverage and open house dates. The permit would be issued only for the duration of the open house but must not precede or exceed the dates of insurance coverage. Many insurance policies terminate at noon on the expiration date. Therefore, if the insurance expiration is used to determine the permit expiration date, the landing permit will expire one day before the insurance expiration date shown on the DD Form 2400. If the insurance expiration date either exceeds 2 years or is indefinite (for example, "until canceled"), the landing permit will expire 2 years from the issue date or first day of coverage.

(2) Frequency of Use (Block 8) is normally "as required" but may be more specific, such as "one time."

(3) Identification Number (Block 9): Installation commanders or a designated representative assign a permit number comprised of the last three letters of the installation's International Civil Aviation Organization identifier code, the last two digits of the calendar year, a number sequentially assigned, and the letter suffix that indicates the purpose of use (Table 1); for example, ADW 95-01C. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, and USDAOs use a three position organization abbreviation; such as AMC 95-02K.

(4) DD Form 2400 (Dated and Filed) (Block 11a): This block should contain the date from block 1 (Date Issued) on the DD Form 2400 and the identification of the unit or base where the form was approved; i.e., 30 March 1995, HQ USAF/XOOBC.

(5) DD Form 2402 (Dated and Filed) (Block 11b): This block should contain the date from block 4 (Date Signed) on the DD Form 2402 and the identification of the unit or base where the form was approved; i.e., 30 March 1995, HQ USAF/XOOBC.

(6) SA-ALC/SFR, 1014 Andrews Road, Building 1621, Kelly AFB TX 78241-5603 publishes the list of companies authorized to purchase Air Force fuel on credit. Block 12 should be marked "yes" only if the permit holder's name appears on the SA-ALC list.

(7) Landing Fees, Block 13, should be marked as indicated in Table 1 to this part.

(8) Permit Amendments: New entries or revisions to an approved DD Form 2401 may be made only by or with the consent of the approving authority.

(d) Provides the applicant with written disapproval if:

(1) Use will interfere with operations, security, or safety.

(2) Adequate civil facilities are collocated.

(3) Purpose of use is not official Government business and adequate civil facilities are available in the proximity of the requested Air Force airfield.

(4) Use will constitute competition with civil airports or air carriers.

(5) Applicant has not fully complied with this part.

(e) Distributes the approved DD Form 2401 before the first intended landing, when possible, as follows:

(1) Retains original.

(2) Returns two copies to the user.

(3) Provides a copy to HQ USAF/XOOBC.
