
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter F - Aircraft
##### PART 855 - CIVIL AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS
###### Subpart C - Agreements for Civil Aircraft Use of Air Force Airfields
####### ยง 855.20 Joint-use agreements.

An agreement between the Air Force and a local Government agency is required before a community can establish a public airport on an Air Force airfield.

(a) Joint use of an Air Force airfield will be considered only if there will be no cost to the Air Force and no compromise of mission capability, security, readiness, safety, or quality of life. Further, only proposals submitted by authorized representatives of local Government agencies eligible to sponsor a public airport will be given the comprehensive evaluation required to conclude a joint use agreement. All reviewing levels will consider and evaluate such requests on an individual basis.

(b) Generally, the Air Force is willing to consider joint use at an airfield if it does not have pilot training, nuclear storage, or a primary mission that requires a high level of security. Civil operations must begin within 5 years of the effective date of an agreement. Operational considerations will be based on the premise that military aircraft will receive priority handling (except in emergencies), if traffic must be adjusted or resequenced. The Air Force normally will not consider personnel increases solely to support civil operations but, if accommodated, all costs must be fully reimbursed by the joint-use sponsor. The Air Force will not provide personnel to install, operate, maintain, alter, or relocate navigation equipment or aircraft arresting systems for the sole use of civil aviation. Changes in equipment or systems to support the civil operations must be funded by the joint-use sponsor. The Air Force must approve siting, design, and construction of the civil facilities.
