
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter G - Organization and Mission - General
##### PART 865 - PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARDS
###### Subpart A - Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
####### ยง 865.3 Application procedures.

(a) Who may apply:

(1) In most cases, the applicant is a member or former member of the Air Force, since the request is personal to the applicant and relates to his or her military records.

(2) An applicant with a proper interest may request correction of another person's military records when that person is incapable of acting on his or her own behalf, is missing, or is deceased. Depending on the circumstances, a child, spouse, civilian employee or former civilian employee, former spouse, parent or other close relative, an heir, or a legal representative (such as a guardian or executor) of the member or former member may be able to show a proper interest. Applicants will send proof of proper interest with the application when requesting correction of another person's military records. An application may be returned when proper interest has not been shown.

(3) A member, former member, employee or former employee, dependent, and current or former spouse may apply to correct a document or other record of any other military matter that affects them (This does not include records pertaining to civilian employment matters). Applicants will send proof of the effect of the document or record upon them with the application when requesting a correction under this provision.
