
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter G - Organization and Mission - General
##### PART 865 - PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARDS
###### Subpart A - Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
####### ยง 865.4 Board actions.
######## Final action by the Board.

(l)The Board acts for the Secretary of the Air Force and its decision is final when it:

(1) Denies any application (except under 10 U.S.C. 1034).

(2) Grants any application in whole or part when the relief was recommended by the official preparing the advisory opinion, was unanimously agreed to by the panel, and does not affect an appointment or promotion requiring confirmation by the Senate, and does not affect a matter for which the Secretary of the Air Force or his or her delegee has withheld decision authority or required notification before final decision.

(3) The Board sends the record of proceedings on all other applications to the Secretary of the Air Force or his or her designee for final decision.

(m) The Board may identify DoD or Air Force policies, instructions, guidance or practices that are leading to, or likely to lead to unsound business decisions, unfair results, waste of government funds or public criticism. The Board will forward such observations directly to the appropriate offices of the Secretariat and/or Air Staff for review and evaluation. Such observations will not be included in the record of proceedings.
