
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter G - Organization and Mission - General
##### PART 865 - PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARDS
###### Subpart A - Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
####### ยง 865.4 Board actions.
######## Board hearings.

(f)The Board in its sole discretion determines whether to grant a hearing. Applicants do not have a right to a hearing before the Board.

(1) The Executive Director will notify the applicant or counsel, if any, of the time and place of the hearing. Written notice will be mailed 30 days in advance of the hearing unless the notice period is waived by the applicant. The applicant will respond not later than 15 days before the hearing date, accepting or declining the offer of a hearing and, if accepting, provide information pertaining to counsel and witnesses. The Board will decide the case in executive session if the applicant declines the hearing or fails to appear.

(2) When granted a hearing, the applicant may appear before the Board with or without counsel and may present witnesses. It is the applicant's responsibility to notify witnesses, arrange for their attendance at the hearing, and pay any associated costs.

(3) The panel chair conducts the hearing, maintains order, and ensures the applicant receives a full and fair opportunity to be heard. Formal rules of evidence do not apply, but the panel observes reasonable bounds of competency, relevancy, and materiality. Witnesses other than the applicant will not be present except when testifying. Witnesses will testify under oath or affirmation. A recorder will record the proceedings verbatim. The chair will normally limit hearings to 2 hours but may allow more time if necessary to ensure a full and fair hearing.
