
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter G - Organization and Mission - General
##### PART 865 - PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARDS
###### Subpart B - Air Force Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 865.106 Application for review.
######## Reason for discharge.

(2)DD Form 293 provides an applicant an opportunity to request a specific change in the reason for discharge. If an applicant does not request a specific change in the reason for discharge, the DRB will presume that the request for review does not involve a request for change in the reason for discharge. Under its responsibility to examine the propriety and equity of an applicant's discharge, the DRB will change the reason for discharge if such a change is warranted.

(3) The applicant must ensure that issues submitted to the DRB are consistent with the request for change in discharge set forth in "Board Action Requested" of the DD Form 293. If an ambiguity is created by a difference between an applicant's issue and the requested action, the DRB will respond to the issue in the context of the action requested in "Board Action Requested." In the case of a Personal Appearance hearing, the DRB will attempt to resolve the ambiguity.

(d) If the member is deceased or mentally incompetent, the spouse, next-of-kin, or legal representative may, as agent for the member, submit the application for the review along with proof of the member's death or mental incompetency.

(e) Applicants forward their requests for review to the USAF Manpower and Personnel Center-mailing address: AFMPC/MPCDOA1, Randolph AFB TX 78150. AFMPC will obtain all available military records of the former members from the National Personnel Records Center.
