
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter G - Organization and Mission - General
##### PART 865 - PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARDS
###### Subpart B - Air Force Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 865.109 Procedures for hearings.
######## Hearing.

(2)A personal appearance before the DRB by the applicant with or without counsel, or by the counsel only.

(c) The Government does not compensate or pay the expenses of the applicant, applicant's witnesses, or counsel.

(d) A summary of the available military records of the applicant is prepared for use by the DRB in the review process. A copy of the summary is available to the applicant and/or his or her counsel, upon request.

(e) When an applicant has requested a personal appearance and/or representation by counsel on the DD Form 293, the DRB sends written notice of the hearing time and place to the applicant and designated counsel. Evidence of such notification will be placed in the applicant's record.

(f) Personal appearance hearings shall be conducted with recognition of the rights of the individual to privacy. Accordingly, presence at hearings of individuals other than those whose presence is required will be limited to persons authorized by the presiding officer and/or expressly requested by the applicant, subject to reasonable limitations based upon available space.

(g) Formal rules of evidence shall not be applied in DRB proceedings. The presiding officer shall rule on matters of procedure and shall ensure that reasonable bounds of relevancy and materiality are maintained in the taking of evidence and presentation of witnesses. Applicants and witnesses may present evidence to the DRB panel either in person or by affidavit or through counsel. If an applicant or witness testifies under oath or affirmation, he or she is subject to questioning by Board members.

(h) There is a presumption of regularity in the conduct of governmental affairs. This presumption can be applied in any review unless there is substantial credible evidence to rebut the presumption.
