
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter G - Organization and Mission - General
##### PART 865 - PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARDS
###### Subpart B - Air Force Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 865.120 Discharge review standards.
######## Equity.

(g)A discharge shall be deemed to be equitable unless:

(1) In the course of a discharge review, it is determined that the policies and procedures under which the applicant was discharged differ in material respects from policies and procedures currently applicable on a service-wide basis to discharges of the type under consideration provided that:

(i) Current policies or procedures represent a substantial enhancement of the rights afforded an applicant in such proceedings; and

(ii) There is substantial doubt that the applicant would have received the same discharge if relevant current policies and procedures had been available to the applicant at the time of the discharge proceedings under consideration.

(2) At the time of issuance, the discharge was inconsistent with standards of discipline in the Air Force; or

(3) In the course of a discharge review, it is determined that a change is warranted based upon consideration of the applicant's military record and other evidence presented to the DRB viewed in conjunction with the factors listed in this section and the regulations under which the applicant was discharged, even though the discharge was determined to have been otherwise equitable and proper at the time of issuance. Areas of consideration include, but are not limited to:

(i) Quality of Service, as evidenced by factors such as:

(A) Service History, including date of enlistment, period of enlistment, highest rank achieved, conduct or efficiency ratings (numerical or narrative).

(B) Awards and decorations.

(C) Letters of commendation or reprimand.

(D) Combat service.

(E) Wounds received in action.

(F) Record of promotions and demotions.

(G) Level of responsibility at which the applicant served.

(H) Other acts of merit that may not have resulted in a formal recognition through an award or commendation.

(I) Length of service during the period which is the subject of the discharge review.

(J) Prior military service and type of discharge received or outstanding post-service conduct to the extent that such matters provide a basis for a more thorough understanding of the performance of the applicant during the period of service which is the subject of the discharge review.

(K) Convictions by court-martial.

(L) Record of non-judicial punishment.

(M) Convictions by civil authorities while a member of the Air Force, reflected in the discharge proceedings or otherwise noted in military records.

(N) Record of periods of unauthorized absence.

(O) Records relating to a discharge in lieu of court-martial.

(ii) Capability to Serve, as evidenced by factors such as:
