
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter G - Organization and Mission - General
##### PART 865 - PERSONNEL REVIEW BOARDS
###### Subpart B - Air Force Discharge Review Board
####### ยง 865.120 Discharge review standards.
######## Propriety.

(b)A discharge shall be deemed to be proper unless in the course of discharge review, it is determined that:

(1) There exists an error of fact, law, procedures, or discretion associated with the discharge at the time of issuance; and that the rights of the applicant were prejudiced thereby (such error shall constitute prejudicial error, if there is substantial doubt that the discharge would have remained the same if the error had not been made); or

(2) A change in policy by the Air Force made expressly retroactive to the type of discharge under consideration, requires a change in the discharge.

(c) When a record associated with the discharge at the time of issuance involves a matter in which the primary responsibility for corrective action rests with another organization (for example, another Board, agency, or court), the DRB will recognize an error only to the extent that the error has been corrected by the organization with primary responsibility for correcting the record.

(d) The primary function of the DRB is to exercise its discretion on issues of equity by reviewing the individual merits of each application on a case-by-case basis. Prior decisions in which the DRB exercised its discretion to change a discharge based on issues of equity (including the factors cited in such decisions or the weight given to factors in such decisions) do not blind the DRB in its review of subsequent cases because no two cases present the same issues of equity.

(e) The following applies to applicants who received less than fully honorable administrative discharges because of their civilian misconduct while in an inactive reserve component and who were discharged or had their discharge reviewed on or after April 20, 1971: the DRB shall either recharacterize the discharge to honorable without any additional proceedings or additional proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the Court's Order of December 3, 1981, in Wood v. Secretary of Defense to determine whether proper grounds exist for the issuance of a less than honorable discharge, taking into account that:

(1) An Under Other Than Honorable (formerly Undesirable) Discharge for an inactive reservist can only be based upon civilian misconduct found to have affected directly the performance of military duties;

(2) A General Discharge for an inactive reservist can only be based upon civilian misconduct found to have had an adverse impact on the overall effectiveness of the military, including military morale and efficiency.

(f) The following applies to applicants who received less than fully honorable administrative discharges (between June 21, 1971 and March 2, 1982) because evidence developed by or as a direct result of complusory urinalysis testing was introduced in the discharge proceedings. Applicants who believe they are members of the above category will so indicate this by writing "CATEGORY W" in block 7 of their DD Form 293. AFMPC/MPCDOA1 will expedite processing these applications to the designated "CATEGORY W" reviewer. For class members the designated reviewer shall either recharacterize the discharge to honorable without any additional proceedings or complete a review to determine whether proper ground exists for the issuance of a less than honorable discharge. If the applicant is determined not to be a class member, the application is returned to normal review procedure channels. If new administrative proceedings are initiated, the former service member must be notified of:

(1) The basis of separation other than drug abuse or use or possession of drugs based upon compelled urinalysis that was specified in the commander's report and upon which the Air Force now seeks to base a less than honorable discharge.

(2) The full complement of procedural protections that are required by current regulations.

(3) Name, address and telephone number of an Area Defense Counsel with whom the former service member has a right to consult, and

(4) The right to participate in the new proceedings to be conducted at the Air Force base nearest the former service member's current address, or to elect to maintain his or her present character of discharge.
