
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter N - Territorial and Insular Regulations
##### PART 935 - WAKE ISLAND CODE
###### Subpart I - Subpoenas, Wake Island Court
####### ยง 935.80 Subpoenas.

(a) A Judge or the Clerk of the Court shall issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses. The subpoena must include the name of the Court and the title, if any, of the proceeding; and shall command each person to whom it is directed to attend and give testimony at the time and place specified therein. The Clerk may issue a subpoena for a party requesting it, setting forth the name of the witness subpoenaed.

(b) A Judge or the Clerk may also issue a subpoena commanding the person to whom it is directed to produce the books, papers, documents, or other objects designated therein. The Court may direct that books, papers, documents, or other objects designated in the subpoena be produced before the Court at a time before the trial or before the time when they are to be offered into evidence. It may, upon their production, allow the books, papers, documents, or objects or portions thereof to be inspected by the parties and their representatives.

(c) Any peace officer or any other person who is not a party and who is at least 18 years of age may serve a subpoena. Service of a subpoena shall be made by delivering a copy thereof to the person named.

(d) The Clerk of the Court shall assess and collect a witness fee of $40 for each subpoena requested by any party other than the United States, which shall be tendered to the witness as his witness fee together with service of the subpoena. Witnesses subpoenaed by the Island Attorney shall be entitled to a fee of $40 upon presentment of a proper claim therefor on the United States. No duly summoned witness may refuse, decline, or fail to appear or disobey a subpoena on the ground that the witness fee was not tendered or received.

(e) Upon a showing that the evidence is necessary to meet the ends of justice and that the defendant is indigent, the Public Defender may request the Court to direct the Island Attorney to obtain the issuance of a subpoena on behalf of a defendant in a criminal case. Witnesses so called on behalf of the defendant shall be entitled to the same witness fees as witnesses requested by the Island Attorney.

(f) Subpoenas may be credited only to persons or things on Wake Island.

(g) No person who is being held on Wake Island because of immigration status shall be entitled to a witness fee, but shall nevertheless be subject to subpoena like any other person.
