
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart B - FAP Standards
####### ยง 61.12 Procedures.
######## PS 58: Content of training.

(iv)FAP training for personnel, as required by PS 56 and PS 57, located at paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (d)(4)(iii) of this section, includes:

(A) Research-supported protective factors that promote and sustain healthy family relationships.

(B) Risk factors for and the dynamics of child abuse and domestic abuse.

(C) Requirements and procedures for reporting child abuse in accordance with subpart A of this part, 42 U.S.C. 13031, 28 CFR 81.2, and DoD Instruction 6400.03.

(D) The availability of domestic abuse victim advocates and response to restricted and unrestricted reports of incidents of domestic abuse in accordance with DoD Instruction 6400.06.

(E) The dynamics of domestic abuse, reporting options, safety planning, and response unique to the military culture that establishes and supports competence in performing core victim advocacy duties.

(F) Roles and responsibilities of the FAP and the command under the installation's coordinated community response to a report of a child abuse, including the response to a report of child sexual abuse in a DoD sanctioned child or youth activity in accordance with subpart A of this part and DoD 6400.1-M-1, or domestic abuse incident, and actions that may be taken to protect the victim in accordance with subpart A of this part and DoD Instruction 6400.06.

(G) Available resources on and off the installation that promote protective factors and support families at risk before abuse occurs.

(H) Procedures for the management of child abuse and domestic abuse incidents that happen before a Service member is deployed, as set forth in PS 16, located at paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section.

(I) The availability of transitional compensation for victims of child abuse and domestic abuse in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a and DoD Instruction 6400.03, and Service FAP headquarters implementing policy and guidance.
