
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter T - Environmental Protection
##### PART 989 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS PROCESS (EIAP)
###### § 989.1 Purpose.

(a) This part implements the Air Force Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) and provides procedures for environmental impact analysis both within the United States and abroad. Because the authority for, and rules governing, each aspect of the EIAP differ depending on whether the action takes place in the United States or outside the United States, this part provides largely separate procedures for each type of action. Consequently, the main body of this part deals primarily with environmental impact analysis under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) (Public Law 91-190, 42 United States Code (U.S.C.) Sections 4321 through 4347), while the primary procedures for environmental impact analysis of actions outside the United States in accordance with Executive Order (E.O.) 12114, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions, are contained in §§ 989.37 and 989.38.

(b) The procedures in this part are essential to achieve and maintain compliance with NEPA and the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of the NEPA (40 CFR Parts 1500 through 1508, referred to as the "CEQ Regulations"). Further requirements are contained in Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4715.1, Environmental Security, Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4715.9, Environmental Planning and Analysis, DoDD 5000.1, Defense Acquisition, and Department of Defense Regulation 5000.2-R, Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs and Major Automated Information System Acquisition Programs.To comply with NEPA and complete the EIAP, the CEQ Regulations and this part must be used together.

(c) Air Force activities abroad will comply with this part, E. O. 12114, and 32 CFR part 187 (DoDD 6050.7, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense Actions, March 31, 1979). To comply with E.O. 12114 and complete the EIAP, the Executive Order, 32 CFR part 187, and this part must be used together.

(d) Appendix A is a glossary of references, abbreviations, acronyms, and terms. Refer to 40 CFR 1508 for definitions of other terminology used in this part.
