
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter T - Environmental Protection
##### PART 989 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS PROCESS (EIAP)
###### ยง 989.3 Responsibilities.
####### Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA):

(4)

(i) Reviews and clears environmental documents in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Proceduresprior to public release.

(ii) Assists the environmental planning function and the Air Force Legal Services Agency, Trial Judiciary Division (AFLOA/JAJT), in planning and conducting public scoping meetings and hearings.

(iii) Ensures that public affairs aspects of all EIAP actions are conducted in accordance with this part and AFI 35-101.

(iv) The National Guard Bureau, Office of Public Affairs (NGB-PA), will assume the responsibilities of SAF/PA for the EIAP involving the National Guard Bureau, Air Directorate.

(b) Headquarters U.S. Air Force (HQ USAF). The Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/ILE) is responsible for execution of the EIAP program. The National Guard Bureau Air Directorate (NGB-CF) oversees the EIAP for Air National Guard actions.

(c) MAJCOMs, the Air National Guard, Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Single Manager Programs. These organizations establish procedures that comply with this part wherever they are the host unit for preparing and using required environmental documentation in making decisions about proposed actions and programs within their commands or areas of responsibility.

(1) Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE). The AFCEE Technical Directorate, Built Infrastructure Division (AFCEE/TDB) is available to provide technical assistance and has the capability to provide contract support to the proponent, EPF, and MAJCOMs in developing EIAP documents.

(2) Air Force Regional Environmental Offices (REOs). REOs review non-Air Force environmental documents that may have an impact on the Air Force. Requests for review of such documents should be directed to the proper REO (Atlanta, Dallas, or San Francisco) along with any relevant comments. The REO:

(i) Notifies the proponent, after receipt, that the REO is the single point of contact for the Air Force review of the document.

(ii) Requests comments from potentially affected installations, MAJCOMs, the ANG, and HQ USAF, as appropriate.

(iii) Consolidates comments into the Air Force official response and submits the final response to the proponent.

(iv) Provides to HQ USAF/A7CI and the appropriate MAJCOMs and installations a copy of the final response and a complete set of all review comments.

(3) Single Manager Acquisition Programs (system-related NEPA). The proponent Single Manager (i.e., System Program Director, Materiel Group Managers, and Product Group Managers) for all programs, regardless of acquisition category, shall comply with DoD Regulation 5000.2-R. SAF/AQR, as the Air Force Acquisition Executive Office, is the final approval authority for all system-related NEPA documents. SAF/AQR is responsible for accomplishing appropriate Headquarters EPC/ESOHC review. The Single Manager will obtain appropriate Product Center EPC approval prior to forwarding necessary EIAP documents (i.e., Notices of Intent (NOIs) and preliminary draft and final EAs and EISs) to SAF/AQR. The Single Manager will allow for concurrent review of EIAP documents by HQ AFMC/CEV and the Operational Command (HQ ACC, HQ AMC, HQ AFSPC, etc.) The Single Manager is responsible for budgeting and funding EIAP efforts, including EIAP for research, development, testing, and evaluation activities.
