
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter T - Environmental Protection
##### PART 989 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS PROCESS (EIAP)
###### ยง 989.4 Initial considerations.

Air Force personnel will:

(a) Consider and document environmental effects of proposed Air Force actions through AF Forms 813, EAs, FONSIs, EISs, RODs, and documents prepared according to E.O. 12114.

(b) Evaluate proposed actions for possible CATEX from environmental impact analysis (appendix B).

(c) Make environmental documents, comments, and responses, including those of other federal agencies, state, Tribal, and local governments, and the public, part of the record available for review and use at all levels of decisionmaking.

(d) Review the specific alternatives analyzed in the EIAP when evaluating the proposal prior to decisionmaking.

(e) Ensure that alternatives to be considered by the decisionmaker are both reasonable and within the range of alternatives analyzed in the environmental documents.

(f) Pursue the objective of furthering foreign policy and national security interests while at the same time considering important environmental factors.

(g) Consider the environmental effects of actions that affect the global commons.

(h) Determine whether any foreign government should be informed of the availability of environmental documents. Formal arrangements with foreign governments concerning environmental matters and communications with foreign governments concerning environmental agreements will be coordinated with the Department of State by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations (SAF/IEI) through the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations & Environment). This coordination requirement does not apply to informal working-level communications and arrangements.
