
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter T - Environmental Protection
##### PART 989 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS PROCESS (EIAP)
###### ยง 989.3 Responsibilities.
####### Environmental Planning Function (EPF).

(e)At every level of command, the EPF is one of the key Air Force participants responsible for the EIAP. The EPF can be the environmental flight within a civil engineer squadron, a separate environmental management office at an installation, the CEV at MAJCOMs, or an equivalent environmental function located with a program office. The EPF:

(1) Supports the EIAP by bringing key participants in at the beginning of a proposed action and involving them throughout the EIAP. Key participants play an important role in defining and focusing key issues at the initial stage.

(2) At the request of the proponent, prepares environmental documents using an interdisciplinary approach, or obtains technical assistance through Air Force channels or contract support. Assists the proponent in obtaining review of environmental documents.

(3) Assists the proponent in preparing a DOPAA and actively supports the proponent during all phases of the EIAP.

(4) Evaluates proposed actions and completes Sections II and III of AF Form 813, subsequent to submission by the proponent and determines whether a Categorical Exclusion (CATEX) applies. The responsible EPF member signs the AF Form 813 certification.

(5) Identifies and documents, with technical advice from the Bioenvironmental Engineer and other staff members, environmental quality standards that relate to the action under evaluation.

(6) Supports the proponent in preparing environmental documents, or obtains technical assistance through Air Force channels or contract support and adopts the documents as official Air Force papers when completed and approved.

(7) Ensures the EIAP is conducted on base-level and MAJCOM-level plans, including contingency plans for the training, movement, and operations of Air Force personnel and equipment.

(8) Prepares the NOI to prepare an EIS with assistance from the proponent and the Public Affairs Office.

(9) Prepares applicable portions of the Certificate of Compliance for each military construction project according to AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming of Facility Construction Projects.

(10) Submits one hard copy and one electronic copy of the final EA/Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) and EIS/Record of Decision (ROD) to the Defense Technical Information Center.
