
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter T - Environmental Protection
##### PART 989 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS PROCESS (EIAP)
###### ยง 989.19 Draft EIS.
####### Public review of draft EIS (40 CFR 1502.19 and 1506.6):

(c)(1) The public comment period for the draft EIS is at least 45 days starting from the publication date of the NOA of the draft EIS in theUSEPA publishes in theNOAs of EISs filed during the preceding week. This public comment period may be extended by the EPF. If the draft EIS is unusually long, the EPF may distribute a summary to the public with an attached list of locations (such as public libraries) where the entire draft EIS may be reviewed. The EPF must distribute the full draft EIS to certain entities, for example, agencies with jurisdiction by law or agencies with special expertise in evaluating the environmental impacts, and anyone else requesting the entire draft EIS (40 CFR 1502.19 and 1506.6).

(2) The EPF sponsors public hearings on the draft EIS according to the procedures in appendix C to this part. Hearings take place no sooner than 15 days after thepublication of the NOA and at least 15 days before the end of the comment period. Scheduling hearings toward the end of the comment period is encouraged to allow the public to obtain and more thoroughly review the draft EIS. The EPF must provide hearing scripts to HQ USAF/A7CI (or ANGRC/CEV) no later than 30 days prior to the first public hearing. Public hearings should generally be held at off-base locations. Submit requests to deviate from procedures in appendix C to this part to HQ USAF/A7CI for SAF/IEI approval.

(3) Where analyses indicate that a proposed action will potentially have disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority populations or low-income populations, the EPF should make special efforts to ensure that these potentially impacted populations are brought into the review process.
