
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter VII - Department of the Air Force
#### Subchapter T - Environmental Protection
##### PART 989 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS PROCESS (EIAP)
###### ยง 989.38 Requirements for analysis abroad.

(a) The EPF will generally perform the same functions for analysis of actions abroad that it performs in the United States. In addition to the requirements of 32 CFR part 187, the following Air Force specific rules apply:

(b) For EAs dealing with global commons (geographic areas beyond the jurisdiction of the United States or any foreign nation), HQ USAF/A7CI will review actions that are above the MAJCOM approval authority. In this instance, approval authority refers to the same approval authority that would apply to an EA in the United States. The EPF documents a decision not to do an EIS.

(c) For EISs dealing with the global commons, the EPF provides sufficient copies to HQ USAF/A7CI for the HQ USAF ESOHC review and AFCEE/TDB technical review. After ESOHC review, the EPF makes a recommendation as to whether the proposed draft EIS will be released as a draft EIS.

(d) For environmental studies and environmental reviews, forward, when appropriate, environmental studies and reviews to HQ USAF/A7CI for coordination among appropriate federal agencies. HQ USAF/A7CI makes environmental studies and reviews available to the Department of State and other interested federal agencies, and, on request, to the United States public, in accordance with 32 CFR part 187. HQ USAF/A7CI also may inform interested foreign governments or furnish copies of studies, in accordance with 32 CFR part 187.
