
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XII - Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency
#### Subchapter B - Miscellaneous
##### PART 1280 - INVESTIGATING AND PROCESSING CERTAIN NONCONTRACTUAL CLAIMS AND REPORTING RELATED LITIGATION
###### ยง 1280.4 Responsibilities.
####### DLA field activities.
######## Tort claims in favor of the United States for damage to or loss or destruction of DLA property, or property in its custody or control.

(d)(1) These claims will be investigated and processed in accordance with the provisions of AR 27-40, Chapter 5, except:

(i) The duties of the claims officer will be performed by the Claims Investigating Officer.

(ii) The duties of the Staff Judge Advocate will be performed by Counsel, except where the property is a GSA motor pool system vehicle (see paragraph (e) of this section).

(iii) The reports of the Claims Investigating Officer will be furnished direct to Counsel for his activity or, if his activity has no Counsel, to the next higher echelon having such a position.

(iv) With respect to reports referred to them, Counsel are authorized to give receipts for any payments received and to execute releases where payment in full is received, except where the property is a GSA motor pool system vehicle (see paragraph (e) of this section). Offers of compromise will be processed pursuant to DSAM 7000.1, chapter 12, section V, paragraph 120502.

(v) Where payment in full is not received after reasonable efforts have been made to collect the claim administratively, Counsel will refer the case directly to the U.S. Attorney unless:
