
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XII - Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency
#### Subchapter B - Miscellaneous
##### PART 1280 - INVESTIGATING AND PROCESSING CERTAIN NONCONTRACTUAL CLAIMS AND REPORTING RELATED LITIGATION
###### ยง 1280.4 Responsibilities.
####### DLA field activities.
######## Reporting legal proceedings.

(f)(1) All process and pleadings served on any personnel or activity of DLA, and related to a claim covered by this part 1280 or involving an incident which may give rise to a claim covered by this part 1280, together with other immediately available data concerning the commencement of legal proceedings, will be promptly referred to Counsel for the activity involved, or, if the activity has no Counsel, to the next higher echelon having such a position.

(2) Any Military Service member or civilian employee of DLA (or his personal representative) against whom a domestic civil action or proceeding is brought for damage to property, or for personal injury or death, on account of his operation of a motor vehicle (Government- or privately-owned) in the scope of his employment (28 U.S.C. 2679) will:

(i) Upon receipt of process and pleadings or any other information regarding the commencement of such action or proceeding, immediately inform the Head of his activity and Counsel as specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(ii) Promptly deliver all process and pleadings served upon him, or an attested true copy thereof, to Counsel.

(3) Upon receipt of information or process and pleadings pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section, Counsel will promptly prepare and process reports in accordance with the appropriate portions of AR 27-40 except that:

(i) If the incident giving rise to the litigation was occasioned by an act or omission of a member of the Navy or Marine Corps, or a member of the Air Force, information and reports required to be furnished to The Judge Advocate General of the Army will be furnished instead to The Judge Advocate General of the Navy and Air Force respectively.

(ii) If the litigation is under the Federal Tort Claims Act and no administrative claim has been filed, Counsel will immediately advise the U.S. Attorney and furnish him a report of all information the activity has with respect to the claim and an affidavit by the Claims Investigating Officer to the effect that no administrative claim has been filed. Two copies of the foregoing will be provided to the appropriate Military Service Judge Advocate General. If an administrative claim has been filed and has been referred to a Military Service, a copy of the process and pleadings and any information not previously furnished will be sent to the appropriate Military Service Judge Advocate General.
