
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XII - Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency
#### Subchapter B - Miscellaneous
##### PART 1290 - PREPARING AND PROCESSING MINOR OFFENSES AND VIOLATION NOTICES REFERRED TO U.S. DISTRICT COURTS
###### ยง 1290.9 Forms and reports.
####### General information on preparation and issue of DD Form 1805.

(a)(1) The U.S. Magistrate system is based on use of a four-ply ticket designed to provide legal notice to violators and records required by the court, law enforcement authorities, and, if appropriate, the state motor vehicle departments. The DD Form 1805 is printed on chemically carbonized paper and prenumbered in series for accounting control. Heads of DLA primary level field activities are responsible for maintaining accountability for each ticket issued and stocks on hand.

(2) DLA field activity Counsels will coordinate with the U.S. Magistrate of the judicial district in which the activity is located and maintain the information listed below:

(i) List of petty offenses for which mail-in procedure is authorized and the amount of the fine for each specific offense. The District Court address will be prestamped on the violator's copy of the DD Form 1805 by the applicable issuing authority.

(ii) List of minor offenses requiring mandatory appearance of the violator before the magistrate. The name and location of the magistrate before whom violators will appear. Schedule will be coordinated with nearest Military Service activity and appearance will be conducted jointly whenever possible.
