
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XII - Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency
#### Subchapter B - Miscellaneous
##### PART 1290 - PREPARING AND PROCESSING MINOR OFFENSES AND VIOLATION NOTICES REFERRED TO U.S. DISTRICT COURTS
###### ยง 1290.9 Forms and reports.
####### 3

() Copy three will be filed at the Security Office or equivalent issuing authority. DLA Form 1454, Vehicle Registration/Driver Record, will be annotated with each traffic offense.

(ii) When DD Form 1805 is used to cite personnel for mail-in type violations, the appropriate supervisor will be provided an information copy of DLA Form 635, Security/Criminal Incident Report, denoting the date, time, place, and type of violation, and the amount of fine assessed.

(iii) Heads of DLA primary level field activities or their representative will not accept or otherwise collect any fines or keep records of fines paid or not paid. They also will take no action concerning nonpayment delinquencies except where warrants are subsequently issued for the violator concerned by the appropriate court authorities.

(iv) See illustrations in appendices C and D for minor offenses requiring the mandatory appearance of violators before the U.S. Magistrate:

(A) Mail-in fine procedures will not apply in mandatory appearance cases. The law enforcement authority issuing a violation notice for an offense requiring mandatory appearance of the violator, will place a check mark in "Box A", DD Form 1805. The name and location of the U.S. Magistrate before whom the violator must appear will be inserted on the line below "United States District Court" as shown in appendix C. The date and time of the initial appearance will be entered in the space provided in "Box A". It is the violator's responsibility to verify the date, time, and place of required court appearances.

(B) Disposition of DD Form 1805 will be as follows:
