
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1605 - SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM ORGANIZATION
##### National Administration
###### ยง 1605.1 Director of Selective Service.

The Director of Selective Service shall be responsible directly to the President. The Director of Selective Service is hereby authorized and directed:

(a) To prescribe such rules and regulations as he shall deem necessary for the administration of the Selective Service System, the conduct of its officers and employees, the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of its records, papers, and property.

(b) To issue such public notices, orders, and instructions, as shall be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Selective Service System.

(c) To obligate and authorize expenditures from funds appropriated for carrying out the functions of the Selective Service System.

(d) To appoint and to fix, in accordance with provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 U.S.C., relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, the compensation of such officers, agents, and employees as shall be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Selective Service System.

(e) To procure such space as he may deem necessary for carrying out the functions of the Selective Service System by lease pursuant to existing statutes.

(f) To obtain by purchase, loan, or gift such equipment, supplies, printing, binding, and blankbook work for the Selective Service System as he may deem necessary to carry out the functions of the Selective Service System.

(g) To perform such other duties as shall be required of him under the Selective Service Law or which may be delegated to him by the President.

(h) To delegate any of his authority to such officers, agents, or persons as he may designate and to provide for the subdelegation of any such authority.
