
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1605 - SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM ORGANIZATION
##### National Administration
###### ยง 1605.6 National Appeal Board.
####### en banc,

(2) The National Appeal Board may sitor upon the request of the Director or as determined by the chairman of the National Appeal Board, in panels, each panel to consist of at least three members. The Chairman of the National Appeal Board shall designate the members of each panel and he shall designate one member of each panel as chairman. A majority of the members of a panel shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, shall decide any question. Each panel of the National Appeal Board shall have full authority to act on all cases assigned to it.

(3) The National Appeal Board or a panel thereof shall hold meetings in Washington, DC, and upon request of the Director or as determined by the Chairman of the National Appeal Board, at any other place.

(d) The National Appeal Board or panel thereof shall classify each registrant whose classification has been appealed to the President under part 1653 of this chapter.

(e) No member of the National Appeal Board shall act on the case of a registrant who is the member's first cousin or closer relation either by blood, marriage, or adoption, or who is the member's employer, employee or fellow employee or stands in the relationship of superior or subordinate of the member in connection with any employment, or is a partner or close business associate of the member, or is a fellow member or employee of the National Appeal Board. A member of the National Appeal Board must disqualify himself in any matter in which we would be restricted for any reason in making an impartial decision.

(f) Each member of the National Appeal Board while on the business of the National Appeal Board away from his home or regular place of business shall receive actual travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence in accordance with rates established by Federal Travel Regulations.

(g) The Director shall pay the expenses of the members of the National Appeal Board in accord with applicable Federal Travel Regulations and shall furnish that Board and its panels necessary personnel, suitable office space, necessary facilities and services.
