
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1624 - INDUCTIONS
##### § 1624.6 Postponement of induction.

(a) [Reserved]

(b) In the case of the death of a member of the registrant's immediate family, extreme emergency involving a member of the registrant's immediate family, serious illness or injury of the registrant, or other emergency beyond the registrant's control, the Director, after the Order to Report for Induction has been issued, may postpone for a specific time the date when such registrant shall be required to report. The period of postponement shall not exceed 60 days from the date of the induction order. When necessary, the Director may grant one further postponement, but the total postponement shall not exceed 90 days from the reporting date on the induction order.

(c)(1) Any registrant who is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a high school or similar institution of learning and is issued an order to report for induction shall, upon presentation of appropriate facts in the manner prescribed by the Director of Selective Service, have his induction postponed:

(i) Until the time of his graduation therefrom; or

(ii) Until he attains the twentieth anniversary of his birth; or

(iii) Until the end of his last academic year, even if he has attained the twentieth anniversary of his birth; or

(iv) Until he ceases satisfactorily to pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earliest.

(2) Any registrant who, while satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university, or similar institution of learning, is ordered to report for induction shall, upon the presentation of appropriate facts in the manner prescribed by the Director of Selective Service, have his induction postponed:

(i) Until the end of the semester or term, or in the case of his last academic year, the end of the academic year; or

(ii) Until he ceases to satisfactorily pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earlier.

(3) A postponement authorized by this subsection may be terminated by the Director of Selective Service for cause upon no less than 10 days notice to the registrant.

(d) The Director of Selective Service may authorize a delay of induction for any registrant whose date of induction conflicts with a religious holiday historically observed by a recognized church, religious sect or religious organization of which he is a member. Any registrant so delayed shall report for induction on the next business day following the religious holiday.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) The Director of Selective Service may authorize a postponement of induction to a registrant when:

(1) The registrant qualifies and is scheduled for a State or National examination in a profession or occupation which requires certification before being authorized to engage in the practice of that profession or occupation; or

(2) The registrant has been accepted in the next succeeding class as a cadet at the U.S. Military Academy, or the U.S. Air Force Academy, or the U.S. Coast Guard Academy; or as a midshipman at the U.S. Naval Academy, or the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; or

(3) The registrant is a ROTC applicant who has been designated to participate in the next succeeding ROTC field training program prior to enrollment in the ROTC; or

(4) The registrant has been accepted as a ROTC scholarship student in the next succeeding ROTC program at a college or university.

(g) The Director of Selective Service shall issue to each registrant whose induction is postponed a written notice thereof.

(h) No registrant whose induction has been postponed shall be inducted into the Armed Forces during the period of any such postponement. A postponement of induction shall not render invalid the Order to Report for Induction which has been issued to the registrant, but shall operate only to postpone the reporting date, and the registrant shall report on the new date scheduled without having issued to him a new Order to Report for Induction.

(i) Any registrant receiving a postponement under the provisions of this section, shall, after the expiration of such postponement, be rescheduled to report for induction at the place to which he was originally ordered.

(j) The initial determination of claims for all postponements is made by area office compensated personnel. After a denial of a claim for a student postponement, the registrant may request the local board to consider the claim. Such registrant shall be afforded an opportunity to appeal before the board in accord with the procedures of §§ 1648.4 and 1648.5.
