
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart B - FAP Standards
####### ยง 61.12 Procedures.
######## PS 74: Gathering and disclosure of information.

(ii)Service members who conduct clinical assessments and provide clinical services to Service member abusers (whether alleged or adjudicated) must adhere to Service policies with respect to advisement of rights in accordance with 10 U.S.C. chapter 47, also known as "The Uniform Code of Military Justice". Clinical service providers must also seek guidance from the servicing legal office when a question of applicability arises. Before obtaining information about and from the person being assessed, FAP staff fully discuss with such person:

(A) The nature of the information that is being sought.

(B) The sources from which such information will be sought.

(C) The reason(s) why the information is being sought.

(D) The circumstances in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a, DoD 6025.18-R, 32 CFR part 310, and Service FAP headquarters policies and guidance under which the information may be released to others.

(E) The procedures under 5 U.S.C. 552a, DoD 6025.18-R, 32 CFR part 310, and Service FAP headquarters policies and guidance for requesting the person's authorization for such information.

(F) The procedures under 5 U.S.C. 552a, DoD 6025.18-R, 32 CFR part 310, and Service FAP headquarters policies and guidance by which a person may request access to his or her record.
