
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1633 - ADMINISTRATION OF CLASSIFICATION
##### ยง 1633.2 Claim for other than Class 1-A.

(a) Any registrant who has received an order to report for induction may, prior to the day he is scheduled to report, submit to the Selective Service System a claim that he is eligible to be classified into any class other than Class 1-A. The registrant may assert a claim that he is eligible for more than one class other than Class 1-A. The registrant cannot subsequently file a claim with respect to a class for which he was eligible prior to the day he was originally scheduled to report. Information and documentation in support of claims for reclassification and postponement of induction shall be filed in accordance with instructions from the Selective Service System.

(b) Any registrant who has received an order to report for induction that has not been canceled may, at any time before his induction, submit a claim that he is eligible to be classified into any class other than Class 1-A based upon events over which he has no control that occurred on or after the day he was originally scheduled to report for induction.

(c)(1) Claims will be filed with the area office supporting the local board of jurisdiction.

(2) Claims will be considered by the local board identified in paragraph (c)(1) or its supporting area office as prescribed in this part.

(d) The initial determination of claims for all administrative classifications are made by area office compensated personnel. After a denial of a claim for an administrative classification the registrant may request the local board to consider the claim.

(e) The initial determination of a judgmental classification is made by a local board.

(f) A registrant may request and shall be granted a personal appearance whenever a local or appeal board considers his claim for reclassification. Personal appearances will be held in accord with parts 1648, 1651 and 1653 of this chapter.

(g) A registrant who has filed a claim for classification in Class 1-A-O or Class 1-0 shall be scheduled for a personal appearance in accord with ยง 1648.4 before his claim is considered.

(h) If granted, a deferment or exemption supersedes the original order to report for induction. When a deferment or exemption expires or ends, a new order to report for induction will be issued.
