
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart B - FAP Standards
####### ยง 61.12 Procedures.
######## PS 78: Commanders' access to relevant information for disposition of allegations.

(ii)FAP provides commanders and senior enlisted personnel timely access to relevant information on child abuse incidents and unrestricted reports of domestic abuse incidents to support appropriate disposition of allegations. Relevant information includes:

(A) The intervention goals and activities described in PS 77, located at paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section.

(B) The alleged abuser's prognosis for treatment, as determined from a clinical assessment.

(C) The extent to which the alleged abuser accepts responsibility for his or her behavior and expresses a genuine desire for treatment, provided that such information obtained from the alleged abuser was obtained in compliance with Service policies with respect to advisement of rights in accordance with 10 U.S.C. chapter 47.

(D) Other factors considered appropriate for the command, including the results of any previous treatment of the alleged abuser for child abuse or domestic abuse and his or her compliance with the previous treatment plan, and the estimated time the alleged abuser will be required to be away from military duties to fulfill treatment commitments.

(E) Status of any child taken into protective custody.
