
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1648 - CLASSIFICATION BY LOCAL BOARD
##### ยง 1648.4 Appointment for personal appearances.

(a) Not less than 10 days (unless the registrant requests an earlier appointment) in advance of the meeting at which he may appear, the registrant shall be informed of the time and place of such meeting and that he may present evidence, including witnesses, bearing on his classification.

(b) Should the registrant who has filed a claim for classification in Class 1-A-O or Class 1-O fail to appear at his scheduled personal appearance, the board will not consider his claim for classification in Class 1-A-O or Class 1-O. The board shall consider any written explanation of such failure that has been filed within 5 days (or extension thereof granted by the board) after such failure to appear. It the board determines that the registrant's failure to appear was for good cause it shall reschedule the registrant's personal appearance. If the board does not receive a timely written explanation of the registrant's failure to appear for his scheduled personal appearance or if the board determines that the registrant's failure to appear was not for good cause, the registrant will be deemed to have abandoned his claim for Class 1-A-O or 1-O and will be notified that his claim will not be considered. The board will notify the registrant in writing of its action under this paragraph.

(c) Whenever a registrant who has filed a claim for a class other than Class 1-A-0 or Class 1-0 for whom a personal appearance has been scheduled, fails to appear in accord with such schedule, the board shall consider any written explanation of such failure that has been filed within 5 days (or extension thereof granted by the board) after such failure to appear. If the board determines that the registrant's failure to appear was for good cause it shall reschedule the registrant's personal appearance. If the board does not receive a timely written explanation of the registrant's failure to appear for his scheduled personal appearance or if the board determines that the registrant's failure to appear was not for good cause, the registrant will be deemed to have abandoned his request for personal appearance and the board will proceed to classify him on the basis of the material in his file. The board will notify the registrant in writing of its action under this paragraph.
