
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1648 - CLASSIFICATION BY LOCAL BOARD
##### ยง 1648.5 Procedures during personal appearance before the local board.

(a) A quorum of the prescribed membership of a board shall be present during all personal appearances. Only those members of the board before whom the registrant appears shall classify him.

(b) At any such appearance, the registrant may present evidence, including witnesses; discuss his classification; direct attention to any information in his file; and present such further information as he believes will assist the board in determing his proper classification. The information furnished should be as concise as possible.

(c) The registrant may present the testimony of not more than three witnesses unless it is the judgment of the board that the testimony of additional witnesses is warranted. The registrant may summarize in writing, the oral information that he or his witnesses presented. Such summary shall be placed in the registrant's file.

(d) A summary will be made of all oral testimony given by the registrant and his witnesses at his personal appearance and such summary shall be placed in the registrant's file.

(e) If the registrant does not speak English adequately he may appear with a person to act as interpreter for him. The interpreter shall be sworn in accordance with ยง 1605.81(b). Such interpreter will not be deemed to be a witness unless he testifies in behalf of the registrant.
