
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1651 - CLASSIFICATION BY DISTRICT APPEAL BOARD
##### ยง 1651.4 Review by district appeal board.

(a) An appeal to the district appeal board is determined by the classification of the registrant in a class other than 1-A or by its refusal to take such action. No action shall be taken by the board in the absence of a quorum of its prescribed membership.

(b) Prior to the adjudication of an appeal, the clerk of the appeal board or any compensated employee authorized to perform the administrative duties of the board shall review the file to insure that no procedural errors have occurred during the history of the current claim. Files containing procedural errors will be returned to the local board that classified the registrant for any additional processing necessary to correct such errors.

(c) Files containing procedural errors that were not detected during the initial screening but which subsequently surfaced during processing by the appeal board, will be acted on and the board will take such action necessary to correct the errors and process the appeal to completion.

(d) A board shall consider appeals in the order of their having been filed.

(e) Upon receipt of the registrant's file, a board shall ascertain whether the registrant has requested a personal appearance before the board. If no such request has been made, the board may classify the registrant on the bases of the material in his file.

(f) Not less than 10 days (unless the registrant requests an earlier appointment) in advance of the meeting at which his classification will be considered, the board shall inform any registrant with respect to whom the Director of Selective Service has appealed or who has requested a personal appearance that he may appear at such meeting and present written evidence bearing on his classification.
