
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1648 - CLASSIFICATION BY LOCAL BOARD
##### ยง 1648.5 Procedures during personal appearance before the local board.
###### Provided,

(f) During the personal appearance only the registrant or his witnesses may address the board or respond to questions of the board and only the registrant and the board will be allowed to address questions to witnesses. A registrant may, however, be accompanied by an advisor of his choosing and may confer with the advisor before responding to an inquiry or statement by the board:That, those conferences do not substantially interfere with or unreasonably delay the orderly process of the personal appearance.

(g) If, in the opinion of the board, the informal, administrative nature of the personal appearance is unduly disrupted by the presence of an advisor, the board chairman may require the advisor to leave the hearing room. In such case, the board chairman shall put a statement of reasons for his action in the registrant's file.

(h) The making of verbatim transcripts, and the using of cameras or other recording devices are prohibited in proceedings before the board. This does not prevent the registrant or Selective Service from making a written summary of all testimony presented.

(i) Proceedings before the local boards shall be open to the public only upon the request of or with the permission of the registrant. The board chairman may limit the number of persons attending the hearing in order to maintain order. If during the hearing the presence on nonparticipants in the proceeding becomes disruptive, the chairman may close the hearing.
