
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1656 - ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
##### ยง 1656.2 Order to perform alternative service.

(a) The local board of jurisdiction shall order any registrant who has been classified in Class 1-O or 1-O-S to perform alternative service at a time and place to be specified by the Director.

(b) When the local board orders a registrant to perform alternative service, it shall be the duty of the registrant to report for and perform alternative service at the time and place ordered unless the order has been canceled. If the time when the registrant is ordered to report for alternative service is postponed, it shall be the continuing duty of the registrant to report for and perform alternative service at such time and place as he may be reordered. Regardless of the time when or the circumstances under which a registrant fails to report for and perform alternative service when it is his duty to do so, it shall thereafter be his continuing duty from day to day to report for and perform alternative service at the place specified in the order to report for and perform alternative service.

(c) The Director may authorize a delay of reporting for alternative service for any registrant whose date of induction conflicts with a religious holiday historically observed by a recognized church, religious sect or religious organization of which he is a member. Any registrant so delayed shall report for alternative service on the next business day following the religious holiday.

(d)(1) Any registrant who is satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a high school or similar institution of learning and is issued an order to perform alternative service shall, upon presentation of appropriate facts in the manner prescribed by the Director of Selective Service, have his date to report to perform alternative service postponed:

(i) Until the time of his graduation therefrom; or

(ii) Until he attains the twentieth anniversary of his birth; or

(iii) Until the end of his last academic year, even if he has attained the twentieth anniversary of his birth; or

(iv) Until he ceases satisfactorily to pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earliest.

(2) Any registrant who, while satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university or similar institution of learning, is ordered to perform alternative service shall, upon the presentation of appropriate facts in the manner prescribed by the Director of Selective Service, have his date to report to perform alternative service.

(i) Until the end of the semester or term, or in the case of his last academic year, the end of the academic year; or

(ii) Until he ceases to satisfactorily pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earlier.

(e) After the order to perform alternative service has been issued, the Director may postpone for a specific time the date when such registrant is required to report in the following circumstances:

(1) In the case of the death of a member of the registrant's immediate family, extreme emergency involving a member of the registrant's immediate family, serious illness or injury of the registrant, or other emergency beyond the registrant's control. The period of postponement shall not exceed 60 days from the date of the order to perform alternative service. When necessary, the Director may grant one further postponement but the total postponement shall not exceed 90 days from the reporting date on the order to perform alternative service.

(2) When the registrant qualifies and is scheduled for a State or National examination in a profession or occupation which requires certification before being authorized to engage in the practice of that profession or occupation.

(f) The Director shall issue to each registrant whose reporting date to perform alternative service is postponed a written notice thereof.

(g) A postponement of reporting date to perform alternative service shall not render invalid the order to report for alternative service which has been issued to the registrant, but shall operate only to postpone the reporting date, and the registrant shall report on the new date scheduled without having issued to him a new order to report for alternative service.

(h) Any registrant receiving a postponement under the provisions of this section, shall, after the expiration of such postponement, be rescheduled to report for alternative service at the place to which he was originally ordered.
