
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1656 - ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
##### ยง 1656.5 Eligible employment.

(a) The Director will determine in accordance with the Selective Service Law which civilian employment programs or activities are appropriate for Alternative Service work.

(1) Employers which are considered appropriate for Alternative Service assignments are limited to:

(i) The U.S. Government or a state, territory or possession of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;

(ii) Organizations, associations or corporations primarily engaged either in a charitable activity conducted for the benefit of the general public or in carrying out a program for the improvement of the public health, welfare or environment, including educational and scientific activities in support thereof, when such activity or program is not principally for the benefit of the members of such organization, association or corporation or for increasing the membership thereof.

(2) Employment programs or activities generally considered to be appropriate for Alternative Service work include:

(i) Health care services, including but not limited to hospitals, nursing homes, extended care facilities, clinics, mental health programs, hospices, community outreach programs and hotlines;

(ii) Educational services, including but not limited to teachers, teacher's aides, counseling, administrative support, parent counseling, recreation, remedial programs and scientific research;

(iii) Environmental programs, including but not limited to conservation and firefighting, park and recreational activities, pollution control and monitoring systems, and disaster relief;

(iv) Social services, including but not limited to sheltered or handicapped workshops, vocational training or retraining programs, senior citizens activities, crisis intervention and poverty relief;

(v) Community services, including but not limited to fire protection, public works projects, sanitation services, school or public building maintenance, correctional facility support programs, juvenile rehabilitation programs, and

(vi) Agricultural work.

(b) An organization desiring to employ ASWs is encouraged to submit a request in writing to the Director or an ASOM for approval. Such requests will be considered at any time.

(c) Selective Service shall negotiate employment agreements with prospective employers with the objective of obtaining an adequate number of agreements to assure the timely placement of all ASWs. Participating employers will provide prospective job listings to Selective Service.

(d) Selective Service shall also negotiate employment agreements with eligible employers wherein the employer will agree to hire a specified number of ASWs for open placement positions.

(e) A registrant classfied in Class 1-O or Class 1-O-S may seek his own alternative service work by identifying a job with an employer he believes would be appropriate for Alternative Service assignments and by having the employer advise the ASO in writing that he desires to employ the ASW. The acceptability of the job and employer so identified will be evaluated in accordance with ยง 1656.5(a).
