
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1656 - ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
##### ยง 1656.3 Responsibility for administration.

(a) The Director in the administration of the Alternative Service Program shall establish and implement appropriate procedures to:

(1) Assure that the program complies with the Selective Service Law;

(2) Provide information to ASWs about their rights and duties;

(3) Find civilian work for ASWs;

(4) Place ASWs in jobs approved for alternative service;

(5) Monitor the work performance of ASWs placed in the program;

(6) Order reassignment and authorize job separation;

(7) Issue certificates of completion;

(8) Specify the location of Alternative Service Offices;

(9) Specify the geographical area in which the ASOs shall have jurisdiction over ASWs;

(10) Refer to the Department of Justice, when appropriate, any ASW who fails to perform satisfactorily his alternative service;

(11) Perform all other functions necessary for the administration of the Alternative Service Program; and

(12) Delegate any of his authority to such office, agent or person as he may designate and provide as appropriate for the subdelegation of such authority.

(b) The Region Director shall be responsible for the administration and operation of the Alternative Service Program in his Region as prescribed by the Director.

(c) The State Director shall perform duties for the administration and operation of the Alternative Service Program in his State as prescribed by the Director.

(d) The ASOM shall perform duties for the administration and operation of the Alternative Service Program as prescribed by the Director.

(1) The ASO shall be an office of record that is responsible for the administration and operation of the Alternative Service Program in its assigned geographical area of jurisdiction.

(2) The staff of each ASO shall consist of as many compensated employees as shall be authorized by the Director.

(3) Appointment of civilians to ASO positions requiring direct dealing with ASWs will be made as soon as feasible.

(e) The manager of an area office shall perform duties for Alternative Service as prescribed by the Director.
