
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1656 - ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
##### ยง 1656.13 Review of alternative service job assignments.

(a) Review of ASW job assignments will be accomplished in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.

(b) Whenever the ASW believes that his job assignment violates his religious, moral or ethical beliefs or convictions as to participation in war that led to his classification as a conscientious objector or is in violation of the provisions of this part he may request a reassignment by the ASOM, as provided for in ยง 1656.12.

(c) The ASOM shall reassign the ASW if the ASOM concludes that the ASW's work assignment violates his religious, moral or ethical beliefs or convictions as to participation in war which led to his classification as a CO or is in violation of the provisions of this part.

(d) If the ASOM does not reassign the ASW, the ASW may, within 15 days after the date of mailing of the decision of the ASOM, request a review of his job assignment by a District Appeal Board.

(e) It shall be the function of the District Appeal Board to determine whether or not an ASW's job assignment violates the ASW's religious, moral, or ethical beliefs of convictions as to participation in war which led to his classification as a conscientious objector or is in violation of the provisions ยง 1656.5(a) of this part. In making the former determination, the Review Board must be convinced by the ASW that if the ASW performed the job, his convictions as to participation in war would be violated in a similar way as if the ASW had participated in war.

(f) The District Appeal Board may affirm the assignment or order the reassignment of the ASW in any matter considered by it.

(g) Procedures of the District Appeal Board are:

(1) Appeals to the Board shall be in writing, stating as clearly as possible the ground for the appeal.

(2) The ASW may appear before the Board at his request. He may not be represented by counsel or present witnesses. The ASOM or his representative may represent the Selective Service System at the hearing and present evidence.

(3) The Board's determination will be based on all documents in the ASW's file folder and statements made at the hearing.

(4) The decision of the Board will be binding only in the case before it. A decision of a Board will not be relied upon by a Board in any other case.

(5) A decision of the Board is not subject to review within the Selective Service System.
