
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1656 - ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
##### ยง 1656.10 Job placement.

(a) Selective Service will maintain a job bank for the exclusive purpose of placing ASWs in alternative service jobs.

(b) An ASW who has identified his own job in accordance with ยง 1656.5(e) of this part may be assigned by the ASO in that job pending review of the job by Selective Service. If the job is then approved as Alternative Service Work in accordance with ยง 1656.5(a) the ASW will receive creditable time beginning with the date he was placed on the job by Selective Service. If the job is not approved he will not receive creditable time and will be placed by Selective Service in a position approved for Alternative Service Work. Selective Service must review the job within 30 calendar days of the time it assigned the ASW to begin work. If the elapsed time from date of placement to the date of Selective Service review exceeds 30 days, the ASW will receive creditable time from the date of placement regardless of the final determination of employer eligibility made by Selective Service. If the placement is ultimately determined to be inappropriate for Alternative Service the ASW will be reassigned in accordance with ยง 1656.12.

(c) In making job interview referrals and in making assignments of ASWs to jobs, Selective Service will consider the compatibility of the ASW's skills, work experience, and preferences with the qualification criteria for the job.

(d) When An ASW is hired, the ASO will issue a Job Placement Order specifying the employer, the time, date and place to report for his alternative service work.

(e) The ASO will normally place the ASW in an alternative service job within 30 calendar days after classification in Class 1-W.
