
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1665 - PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 1665.4 Requests to amend records.
###### SSS action on the request.

(2)To the extent possible, a decision, upon a request to amend a record will be made within 10 days, (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays). The response reflecting the decisions upon a request for amendment will include the following:

(i) The decision of the Selective Service System whether to grant in whole, or deny any part of the request to amend the record.

(ii) The reasons for determination for any portion of the request which is denied.

(iii) The name and address of the official with whom an appeal of the denial may be lodged.

(iv) The name and address of the official designated to assist, as necessary and upon request of, the individual making the request in preparation of the appeal.

(v) A description of the review of the appeal with SSS (see ยง 1665.5).

(vi) A description of any other procedures which may be required of the individual in order to process the appeal.

(3) If the nature of the request for the correction of the system of records precludes a decision within 10 days, the individual making the request will be informed within 10 days of the extended date for a decision. Such a decision will be issued as soon as it is reasonably possible, normally within 30 days from the receipt of the request (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays) unless unusual circumstances preclude completing action within that time. If the expected completion date for the decision indicated cannot be met, the individual will be advised of the delay of a revised date when the decision may be expected to be completed.
