
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1665 - PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
##### § 1665.5 Request for review.

(a) Individuals wishing to request a review of the decision by SSS with regard to any initial request to access or amend a record in accord with the provisions of §§ 1665.2 and 1665.4, should submit the request for review in writing and, to the extent possible, include the information specified in § 1665.5(b). Individuals desiring assistance in the preparation of their request for review should contact the records manager at the address provided herein.

(b) The request for review should contain a brief description of the record involved or in lieu thereof, copies of the correspondence from SSS in which the request to access or to amend was denied and also the reasons why the requester believes that access should be granted or the disputed information amended. The request for review should make reference to the information furnished by the individual in support of his claim and the reasons as required by §§ 1665.2 and 1665.4 set forth by SSS in its decision denying access or amendment. Appeals filed without a complete statement by the requester setting forth the reasons for review will, of course, be processed. However, in order to make the appellate process as meaningful as possible, the requester's disagreement should be set forth in an understandable manner. In order to avoid the unnecessary retention of personal information, SSS reserves the right to dispose of the material concerning the request to access or amend a record if no request for review in accord with this section is received by SSS within 180 days of the mailing by SSS of its decision upon an initial request. A request for review received after the 180 day period may, at the discretion of the records manager, be treated as an initial request to access or amend a record.

(c) The request for review should be addressed to the Director of Selective Service.
