
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVI - Selective Service System
#### PART 1665 - PRIVACY ACT PROCEDURES
##### ยง 1665.5 Request for review.
###### conciseness

(d) The Director of Selective Service will inform the requester in writing of the decision on the request for review within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal federal holidays) from the date of receipt by SSS of the individual's request for review unless the Director extends the 20 days period for good cause. The extension and the reasons therefor will be sent by SSS to the requester within the initial 20 day period. Such extensions should not be routine and should not normally exceed an additional thirty days. If the decision does not grant in full the request for amendment, the notice of the decision will provide a description of the steps the individual may take to obtain judicial review of such a decision, a statement that the individual may file a concise statement with SSS setting forth the individual's reasons for his disagreement with the decision and the procedures for filing such a statement of disagreement. The Director of Selective Service has the authority to determine theof the statement, taking into account the scope of the disagreement and the complexity of the issues. Upon the filing of a proper, concise statement by the individual, any subsequent disclosure of the information in dispute will be clearly noted so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent, a copy of the concise statement furnished and a concise statement by SSS setting forth its reasons for not making the requested changes, if SSS chooses to file such a statement. A notation of a dispute is required to be made only if an individual informs the agency of his disagreement with SSS's determination in accord with ยง 1665.5(a), (b) and (c). A copy of the individual's statement, and if it chooses, SSS's statement will be sent to any prior transferee of the disputed information who is listed on the accounting required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(c). If the reviewing official determines that the record should be amended in accord with the individual's request, SSS will promptly correct the record, advise the individual, and inform previous recipients if an accounting of the disclosure was made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c). The notification of correction pertains to information actually disclosed.
