
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVII - Office of the Director of National Intelligence
#### PART 1701 - ADMINISTRATION OF RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart A - Protection of Privacy and Access to Individual Records Under the Privacy Act of 1974
###### ยง 1701.8 Requests to amend or correct records.
####### How to request.

(a)Unless the record is not subject to amendment or correction (see paragraph (b) of this section), individuals (or guardians or representatives acting on their behalf) may make a written amendment or correction request to the D/IMO, as directed in ยง 1701.3 of this subpart, or to the contact designated in a specific Privacy Act System of Records. Requesters seeking amendment or correction should identify the particular record or portion subject to the request, explain why an amendment or correction is necessary, and provide the desired replacement language. Requesters may submit documentation supporting the request to amend or correct. Requests for amendment or correction will lapse (but may be re-initiated with a new request) if all necessary information is not submitted within forty-five (45) days of the date of the original request. The identity verification procedures of paragraphs (d) and (e) of ยง 1701.7 of this subpart apply to amendment requests.

(b). (1) Records which are determinations of fact or evidence received (e.g., transcripts of testimony given under oath or written statements made under oath; transcripts of grand jury proceedings, judicial proceedings, or quasi-judicial proceedings, which are the official record of those proceedings; pre-sentence records that originated with the courts) and

(2) Records in ODNI systems of records that ODNI or another agency has exempted from amendment and correction under Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k) by notice published in the
