
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVII - Office of the Director of National Intelligence
#### PART 1703 - PRODUCTION OF ODNI INFORMATION OR MATERIAL IN PROCEEDINGS BEFORE FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL OR OTHER GOVERNMENT ENTITY OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION
##### ยง 1703.4 Procedure for production.

(a) Whenever a demand is made for ODNI information or material, the employee who received the demand shall immediately notify OGC ((703) 275-2527). The OGC and the ODNI employee shall then follow the procedures set forth in this section.

(b) The OGC may assert any and all defenses before any search for potentially responsive ODNI information or material begins. Further, in its sole discretion the ODNI may decline to begin a search for potentially responsive ODNI information or material until a final and non-appealable disposition of any or all of the asserted defenses is made by the federal, state, local or government entity of competent jurisdiction. When the OGC determines that it is appropriate to search for potentially responsive ODNI information and material, the OGC will forward the demand to the appropriate ODNI offices or entities with responsibility for the ODNI information or material sought in the demand. Those ODNI offices or entities shall then search for and provide to the OGC all potentially responsive ODNI information and material. The OGC may then assert any and all defenses to the production of what it determines is responsive ODNI information or material.

(c) In reaching a decision on whether to produce responsive ODNI information or material, or to object to the demand, the OGC shall consider whether:

(1) Any relevant privileges are applicable;

(2) The applicable rules of discovery or procedure require production;

(3) Production would violate a statute, regulation, executive order or other provision of law;

(4) Production would violate a non-disclosure agreement;

(5) Production would be inconsistent with the DNI's responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods, or reveal classified information or state secrets;

(6) Production would violate a specific ODNI policy issuance or instruction; and

(7) Production would unduly interfere with the orderly conduct of ODNI functions.

(d) If oral or written testimony is sought by a demand in a case or matter in which the ODNI is not a party, a reasonably detailed description of the testimony sought in the form of an affidavit, or a written statement if that is not feasible, by the party seeking the testimony or its attorney must be furnished to the OGC.

(e) The OGC shall notify the appropriate employees of all decisions regarding responses to demands and provide advice and counsel for the implementation of the decisions.
