
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVII - Office of the Director of National Intelligence
#### PART 1703 - PRODUCTION OF ODNI INFORMATION OR MATERIAL IN PROCEEDINGS BEFORE FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL OR OTHER GOVERNMENT ENTITY OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION
##### ยง 1703.4 Procedure for production.
###### United States ex rel. Touhy,Ragen,

(f) If response to a demand is required before a decision is made whether to provide responsive ODNI information or material, an OGC attorney will request that a Department of Justice attorney appear with the ODNI employee upon whom that demand has been made before the court or other competent authority and provide it with a copy of this regulation and inform the court or other authority as to the status of the demand. The court will be requested to stay the demand pending resolution by the ODNI. If the request for a stay is denied or there is a ruling that the demand must be complied with irrespective of instructions rendered in accordance with this Part, the employee upon whom the demand was made shall, if directed to do so by the General Counsel or its designee, respectfully decline to comply with the demand under the authority ofv.340 U.S. 462 (1951), and this regulation.

(g) ODNI officials may delegate in writing any authority given to them in this part to subordinate officials.

(h) Any individual or entity not an ODNI employee as defined in this part who receives a demand for the production or disclosure of ODNI information or material acquired because of that person's or entity's association with the ODNI should notify the OGC ((703) 275-2527) for guidance and assistance. In such cases the provisions of this regulation shall be applicable.
