
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Therapeutic alliance

(4)-(i) Although clinical intervention must address abuser accountability, clinical assessment and treatment approaches should be oriented to building a therapeutic alliance with the abuser so that he or she is sincerely motivated to take responsibility for his or her actions, improve relationship skills, and end the abusive behavior.

(ii) Clinical intervention will neither be confrontational nor intentionally or unintentionally rely on the use of shame to address the abuser's behavior. Such approaches have been correlated in research studies with the abuser's premature termination of or minimal compliance with treatment.

(A) It is appropriate to encourage abusers to take responsibility for their use of violence; however, in the absence of a strong, supportive, therapeutic relationship, confrontational approaches may induce shame and are likely to reduce treatment success and foster dropout. Approaches that create and maintain a therapeutic alliance are more likely to motivate abusers to seek to change their behaviors, add to their relationship skills, and take responsibility for their actions. Studies indicate that a strong therapeutic alliance is related to decreased psychological and physical aggression.

(B) A clinical style that helps the abuser identify positive motivations to change his or her behavior is effective in strengthening the therapeutic alliance while encouraging the abuser to evaluate his or her own behavior. Together, the therapist and abuser attempt to identify the positive consequences of change, identify motivation for change, determine the obstacles that lie in the path of change, and identify specific behaviors that the abuser can adopt.
