
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Professional standards.

(7)Domestic abusers who undergo clinical intervention will be treated with respect, fairness, and in accordance with professional ethics. All applicable rights of abusers will be observed, including compliance with the rights and warnings in 10 U.S.C. 831, chapter 47, also known and referred to in this subpart as the "Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)" for abusers who are Service members.

(i) Clinical service providers who conduct clinical assessments of or provide clinical treatment to abusers will adhere to Service policies with respect to the advisement of rights pursuant to the UCMJ, will seek guidance from the supporting legal office when a question of applicability arises, and will notify the relevant military law enforcement investigative agency if advisement of rights has occurred.

(ii) Clinical service providers and military and civilian victim advocates must follow the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, and other applicable laws, regulations, and policies regarding the disclosure of information about victims and abusers.

(iii) Individuals and agencies providing clinical intervention to persons reported as domestic abusers will not discriminate based on race, color, religion, gender, disability, national origin, age, or socioeconomic status. All members of clinical intervention teams will treat abusers with dignity and respect regardless of the nature of their conduct or the crimes they may have committed. Cultural differences in attitudes will be recognized, respected, and addressed in the clinical assessment process.
