
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XVIII - National Counterintelligence Center
#### PART 1807 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITY IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE NATIONAL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE CENTER
##### ยง 1807.160 Communications.

(a) The NACIC shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public as follows:

(1)(i) The NACIC shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids if necessary to afford an individual with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the NACIC.

(ii) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the NACIC shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with disabilities.

(2) Where the NACIC communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.

(b) The NACIC shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.

(c) This section does not require the NACIC to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where NACIC personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the NACIC has the burden of proving that compliance with ยง 1807.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the NACIC head or his or her designee after considering all NACIC resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the NACIC shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
