
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Implementation.

(3)Coordinated community risk management requires:

(i) The commander of the military installation to participate in local coalitions and task forces to enhance communication and strengthen program development among activities. In the military community, this may include inviting State, local, and tribal government representatives to participate in their official capacity as non-voting guests in meetings of the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) to discuss coordinated community risk management in domestic abuse incidents that cross jurisdictions. (See subpart B of this part for FAC standards.)

(A) Agreements with non-federal activities will be reflected in signed MOU.

(B) Agreements may be among military installations of different Military Services and local government activities.

(ii) Advance planning through the installation FAC by:

(A) The commander of the installation.

(B) FAP and civilian clinical service providers.

(C) Victim advocates in the military and civilian communities.

(D) Military chaplains.

(E) Military and civilian law enforcement agencies.

(F) Military supporting legal office and civilian prosecutors.

(G) Military and civilian mental health and substance abuse treatment agencies.

(H) DoDEA school principals or their designees.

(I) Other civilian community agencies and personnel including:
