
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Initial information gathering.

(2)Initial information gathering and risk assessment begins when the unrestricted report of domestic abuse is received by FAP.

(i) Since the immediacy of the response is based on the imminence of risk, the victim must be contacted as soon as possible to evaluate her or his safety, safety plan, and immediate needs. If a domestic abuse victim advocate is available, the victim advocate must contact the victim. If a victim advocate is not available, the clinician must contact the victim. Every attempt must be made to contact the victim via telephone or email to request a face-to-face interview. If the victim is unable or unwilling to meet face-to-face, the victim's safety, safety plan, and immediate needs will be evaluated by telephone.

(ii) The clinician must interview the victim and abuser separately to maximize the victim's safety. Both victim and abuser must be assessed for the risk factors in paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(6) of this section.

(A) The clinician must inform the victim and abuser of the limits of confidentiality and the FAP process before obtaining information from them. Such information must be provided in writing as early as practical.

(B) The clinician must build a therapeutic alliance with the abuser using an interviewing style that assesses readiness for and motivates behavioral change. The clinician must be sensitive to cultural considerations and other barriers to the client's engagement in the process.

(iii) The clinician must also gather information from a variety of other sources to identify additional risk factors, clarify the context of the use of any violence, and determine the level of risk. The assessment must include information about whether the Service member is scheduled to be deployed or has been deployed within the past year, and the dates of scheduled or past deployments. Such sources of information may include:

(A) The appropriate military command.

(B) Military and civilian law enforcement.

(C) Medical records.

(D) Children and other family members residing in the home.

(E) Others who may have witnessed the acts of domestic abuse.

(F) The FAP central registry of child maltreatment and domestic abuse reports.
