
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1901 - PUBLIC RIGHTS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Action on Privacy Act Administrative Appeals
###### ยง 1901.41 Establishment of appeals structure.
####### Authorities and activities.

(2)The Panel shall meet on a regular schedule and may take action when a simple majority of the total membership is present. The Panel shall advise and assist the HRPB on all information release issues, monitor the adequacy and timeliness of Agency releases, set component search and review priorities, review adequacy of resources available to and planning for all Agency release programs, and perform such other functions as deemed necessary by the Board. The Information and Privacy Coordinator also serves as Executive Secretary of the Panel. The Chair may request interested parties to participate when special equities or expertise are involved. The Panel, functioning as a committee of the whole or through individual members, will make final Agency decisions from appeals of initial adverse decisions under the Freedom of Information Act and such other information release decisions made under 32 CFR parts 1901, 1907, and 1908. Issues shall be decided by a majority of members present; in all cases of a divided vote, any member of the ARP then present may refer such matter to the HRPB by written memorandum to the Executive Secretary of the HRPB. Matters decided by the Panel or Board will be deemed a final decision by the Agency.
