
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Lethality risk assessment.

(4)The clinician must assess the risk for lethality in every assessment for domestic abuse, whether or not violence was used in the present incident. The lethality assessment will assess the presence of these factors:

(i) For both victim and domestic abuser:

(A) Increased frequency and severity of violence in the relationship.

(B) Ease of access to weapons.

(C) Previous use of weapons or threats to use weapons.

(D) Threats to harm or kill the other party, oneself, or another (especially a child of either party).

(E) Excessive use of alcohol and use of illegal drugs.

(F) Jealousy, possessiveness, or obsession, including stalking.

(ii) For the domestic abuser only:

(A) Previous acts or attempted acts of forced or coerced sex with the victim.

(B) Previous attempts to strangle the victim.

(iii) For the victim only:

(A) The victim's attempts or statements of intent to leave the relationship.

(B) If the victim is a woman, whether the victim is pregnant and the abuser's attitude regarding the pregnancy.

(C) The victim's fear of harm from the abuser to himself or herself or any child of either party or other individual living in the household.
