
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1903 - CONDUCT ON AGENCY INSTALLATIONS
##### ยง 1903.6 Admission on to an Agency installation.

(a) Access on to any Agency installation shall be controlled and restricted to ensure the orderly and secure conduct of Agency business. Admission on to an Agency installation or into a restricted area on an Agency installation shall be limited to Agency employees and other persons with proper authorization.

(b) All persons entering on to or when on an Agency installation shall, when required and/or requested, produce and display proper identification to authorized persons.

(c) All personal property, including but not limited to any packages, briefcases, electronic devices, other containers or vehicles brought on to, on, or being removed from an Agency installation are subject to inspection and search by authorized persons.

(d) A full search of a person or any personal property, to include electronic devices, may accompany an investigative stop or an arrest.

(e) Persons entering on to an Agency installation or into a restricted area who refuse to permit an inspection and search will be denied further entry and will be ordered to leave the Agency installation or restricted area pursuant to ยง 1903.7(a) of this part.

(f) All persons entering on to or when on any Agency installation shall comply with all official signs of a prohibitory, regulatory, or directory nature at all times while on the Agency installation.

(g) All persons entering on to or when on any Agency installation shall comply with the instructions or directions of authorized persons.
