
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1903 - CONDUCT ON AGENCY INSTALLATIONS
##### ยง 1903.5 Enforcement of parking regulations.

(a) A vehicle parked in any location without authorization, pursuant to a fraudulent, fabricated, copied or altered parking permit, or parked contrary to the directions of posted signs or markings shall be subject to any penalties imposed by this section and the vehicle may be removed from the Agency installation at the owner's risk and expense.

(b) The use, attempted use, or possession of a fraudulent, fabricated, copied, or altered parking permit is prohibited.

(c) The blocking of entrances, driveways, sidewalks, paths, loading platforms, or fire hydrants on an Agency installation is prohibited.

(d) This section may be supplemented or the applicability suspended from time to time by the CIA Director of Security, or by his or her designee, by the issuance and posting of such parking directives as may be required, and when so issued and posted, such directives shall have the same force and effects as if made a part thereof.

(e) Long term parking (parking in excess of 72 hours) is permitted only in designated areas and with express approval consistent with CIA internal guidance.

(f) Proof that a vehicle was parked in violation of the regulations of this section or directives may be taken as prima facie evidence that the registered owner was responsible for the violation.

(g) Any violation of this section may result in relocation of the vehicle or removal of the vehicle from the Agency installation at the owner's risk and expense. The Central Intelligence Agency assumes no responsibility for the payment of any fees or costs related to the removal or storage of the vehicle, which may be charged to the owner of the vehicle by the towing organization.
