
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Assessment of other risk factors.

(6)The clinician will separately assess the victim and abuser for other factors that increase risk for future domestic abuse. Such risk factors to be assessed include, but are not limited to, the abuser's:

(i) Previous physical and sexual violence and emotional abuse committed in the current and previous relationships. The greater the frequency, duration, and severity of such violence, the greater the risk.

(ii) Use of abuse to create and maintain power and control over others.

(iii) Attitudes and beliefs directly or indirectly supporting domestic abusive behavior. The stronger the attitudes and beliefs, the greater the risk.

(iv) Blaming of the victim for the abuser's acts. The stronger the attribution of blame to the victim, the greater the risk.

(v) Denial that his or her abusive acts were wrong and harmful, or minimization of their wrongfulness and harmfulness.

(vi) Lack of motivation to change his or her behavior. The weaker the motivation, the greater the risk.

(vii) Physical and/or emotional abuse of any children in the present or previous relationships. The greater the frequency, duration, and severity of such abuse, the greater the risk.

(viii) Physical abuse of pets or other animals. The greater the frequency, duration, and severity of such abuse, the greater the risk.

(ix) Particular caregiver stress, such as the management of a child or other family member with disabilities.

(x) Previous criminal behavior unrelated to domestic abuse. The greater the frequency, duration, and severity of such criminal behavior, the greater the risk.

(xi) Previous violations of civil or criminal court orders. The greater the frequency of such violations, the greater the risk.

(xii) Relationship problems, such as infidelity or significant ongoing conflict.

(xiii) Financial problems.

(xiv) Mental health issues or disorders, especially disorders of emotional attachment or depression and issues and disorders that have not been treated successfully.

(xv) Experience of traumatic events during military service, including events that resulted in physical injuries.

(xvi) Any previous physical harm, including head or other physical injuries, sexual victimization, or emotional harm suffered in childhood and/or as a result of violent crime outside the relationship.

(xvii) Fear of relationship failure or of abandonment.
