
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Periodic risk assessment.

(7)The FAP clinical service provider will periodically conduct a risk assessment with input from the victim, adding the results of such risk assessments to the abuser's treatment record in accordance with subpart B of this part, and incorporating them into the abuser's clinical treatment plan and contract. Risk assessment will be conducted:

(i) At least quarterly, but more frequently as required to monitor safety when the current situation is deemed high risk.

(ii) Whenever the abuser is alleged to have committed a new incident of domestic abuse or an incident of child abuse.

(iii) During significant transition periods in clinical case management, such as the change from assessment to treatment, changes between treatment modalities, and changes between substance abuse or mental health treatment and FAP treatment.

(iv) After destabilizing events such as accusations of infidelity, separation or divorce, pregnancy, deployment, administrative or disciplinary action, job loss, financial issues, or health impairment.

(v) When any clinically relevant issues are uncovered, such as childhood trauma, domestic abuse in a prior relationship, or the emergence of mental health problems.
