
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1903 - CONDUCT ON AGENCY INSTALLATIONS
##### ยง 1903.11 Restrictions on photographic, transmitting, and recording equipment.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized under this section, the following are prohibited on Agency installations:

(1) Possessing a camera, other visual or audio recording devices, or electronic transmitting equipment of any kind.

(2) Carrying a camera, other visual or audio recording devices, or electronic transmitting equipment of any kind.

(3) Using a camera, other visual or audio recording devices, or electronic transmitting equipment of any kind.

(b) This section does not apply to any person using, possessing or storing a government or privately owned cellular telephone or pager while on any Agency installation. The Central Intelligence Agency may regulate or otherwise administratively control cellular telephones and pagers outside the provisions of this part.

(c) This section does not apply to any officer, agent, or employee of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision thereof, who may enter on to an Agency installation to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of any violation of law.

(d) This section does not apply to any person who has received approval from the CIA Director of Security, or from his or her designee, to carry, transport, or use a camera, other visual or audio recording devices, or electronic transmitting equipment while on an Agency installation.
