
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 61 - FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP)
###### Subpart E - Guidelines for Clinical Intervention for Persons Reported as Domestic Abusers
####### ยง 61.30 Procedures.
######## Treatment Planning.

(2)A FAP clinical service provider will develop a treatment plan for domestic abuse that is based on a structured assessment of the particular relationship and risk factors present.

(i) The treatment plan will not be based on a generic "one-size-fits-all" approach. The treatment plan will consider that people who commit domestic abuse do not compose a homogeneous group, and may include people:

(A) Of both sexes.

(B) With a range of personality characteristics.

(C) With mental illness and those with no notable mental health problems.

(D) Who abuse alcohol or other substances and/or use illegal drugs and those who do not.

(E) Who combine psychological abuse with coercive techniques, including violence, to maintain control of their spouse, former spouse, or intimate partner and those who do not attempt to exert coercive control.

(F) In relationships in which both victim and domestic abuser use violence (excluding self-defense).

(ii) Due to the demographics of the military population, structure of military organizations, and military culture, it is often possible to intervene in a potentially abusive relationship before the individual uses coercive techniques to gain and maintain control of the other party. Thus, a reliance on addressing the abuser's repeated use of power and control tactics as the sole or primary focus of treatment is frequently inapplicable in the military community.

(iii) Treatment objectives, when applicable, will seek to:

(A) Educate the abuser about what domestic abuse is and the common dynamics of domestic abuse in order for the abuser to learn to identify his or her own abusive behaviors.

(B) Identify the abuser's thoughts, emotions, and reactions that facilitate abusive behaviors.

(C) Educate the abuser on the potential for re-abusing, signs of abuse escalation and the normal tendency to regress toward previous unacceptable behaviors.

(D) Identify the abuser's deficits in social and relationship skills. Teach the abuser non-abusive, adaptive, and pro-social interpersonal skills and healthy sexual relationships, including the role of intimacy, love, forgiveness, development of healthy ego boundaries, and the appropriate role of jealousy.

(E) Increase the abuser's empathic skills to enhance his or her ability to understand the impact of violence on the victim and empathize with the victim.

(F) Increase the abuser's self-management techniques, including assertiveness, problem solving, stress management, and conflict resolution.

(G) Educate the abuser on the socio-cultural basis for violence.

(H) Identify and address issues of gender role socialization and the relationship of such issues to domestic abuse.

(I) Increase the abuser's understanding of the impact of emotional abuse and violence directed at children and violence that is directed to an adult but to which children in the family are exposed.

(J) Facilitate the abuser's acknowledgment of responsibility for abusive actions and consequences of actions. Although the abuser's history of victimization should be addressed in treatment, it should never take precedence over his or her responsibility to be accountable for his or her abusive and/or violent behavior, or be used as an excuse, rationalization, or distraction from being held so accountable.

(K) Identify and confront the abuser's issues of power and control and the use of power and control against victims.

(L) Educate the abuser on the impact of substance abuse and its correlation to violence and domestic abuse.

(iv) These factors should inform treatment planning:
