
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1906 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
##### ยง 1906.170 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the Agency.

(b) The Agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).

(c) The Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity, is responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Central Intelligence Agency, Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity, Washington, DC 20505.

(d) The Agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Agency may extend this time period for good cause.

(e) If the Agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The Agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157) is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.

(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, The Agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the Agency of the letter required by ยง 1906.170(g). The Agency may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Director.

(j) The Agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the Agency determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 60 days from the date it receives the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.

(l) The Director may delegate the authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated.
