
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1907 - CHALLENGES TO CLASSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS BY AUTHORIZED HOLDERS PURSUANT TO SEC. 1.8 OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 13526
##### Action on Challenges
###### ยง 1907.25 Action on appeal of initial Agency determination.

(a) The challenger may, within 45 calendar days of receiving notice of a denial of the challenge, appeal the denial to the ARP by sending the appeal and any supplementary information in support of the challenge to the Executive Secretary of the ARP (ES/ARP).

(b) Within 10 business days of receipt of an appeal, the ES/ARP will record receipt, provide the challenger with written acknowledgement, and forward the appeal to C/CMCG, the appropriate IMTOs, originator, and other appropriate parties, who shall review the appeal and related materials, and within 30 business days provide a written recommendation to the ARP.

(c) The ARP shall meet on a regular schedule and may take action when a simple majority of the total membership is present. Issues shall be decided by a majority of the members present. In all cases of a divided vote, before the decision of the ARP becomes final, any member of the ARP may by written memorandum to the ES/ARP, refer such matters to the Director, Information Management Services (D/IMS) for decision. In the event of a disagreement with any decision by D/IMS related to the classification challenge, Directorate heads may appeal to the Associate Deputy Director, CIA (ADD) for resolution. The final Agency decision shall reflect the vote of the ARP, unless changed by the D/IMS or the ADD.

(d) The ES/ARP shall promptly provide the challenger with written notice of the final Agency decision and, if the appeal is denied, inform the challenger of the right to appeal to the ISCAP through C/CMCG, who will forward the appeal to the ISCAP.
