
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1909 - ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED CIA INFORMATION BY HISTORICAL RESEARCHERS AND CERTAIN FORMER GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL PURSUANT TO SEC. 4.4 OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 13526
##### ยง 1909.5 Requirements as to who may apply.
###### Additional considerations.

(2)In light of the very limited Agency resources, it is the policy of the Agency to consider applications for access by historical researchers (other than research associates) only in those instances where the researcher's needs cannot be satisfied through requests for access to reasonably described records under the Freedom of Information Act or the mandatory declassification review provisions of Executive Order 13526, and where issues of internal resource availability and fairness to all members of the historical research community militate in favor of a particular grant.

(b) Former Presidential and Vice Presidential appointees or designees. Any former Presidential or Vice Presidential appointee or designee as defined herein may also submit a request to be given access to any classified items which they originated, reviewed, signed, or received while serving in that capacity. Requests from such appointees or designees shall be in writing to the Coordinator and shall identify the records containing the classified information of interest. Such appointees or designees may also request approval for a research associate, but there is no entitlement to such enlargement of access and the decision in this regard shall be in the sole discretion of the Senior Agency Official.

(c) Former Presidents and Vice Presidents. Any former President or Vice President may submit a request for access to classified CIA information. Requests from former Presidents or Vice Presidents shall be in writing to the Coordinator and shall identify the records containing the classified information of interest. A former President or Vice President may also request approval for a research associate, but there is no entitlement to such enlargement of access and the decision in this regard shall be in the sole discretion of the Senior Agency Official
