
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XIX - Central Intelligence Agency
#### PART 1911 - SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR DISCRETIONARY ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED HISTORICAL CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RECORDS REQUESTED BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES
##### ยง 1911.4 Federal agency requests for access and processing procedures.
###### Limitations.

(d)(1) With respect to requests for access to CIA information and equities residing outside of CIA, upon a favorable CIA determination in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the CIA will notify both the requester and the agency holding the records with CIA equities. The requester will need to follow the access requirements of the agency holding the records in addition to any access requirements mandated by CIA.

(2) If access to classified historical CIA records is granted, as a rule, such access shall be provided on CIA premises only. No copies of any classified historical CIA records shall be provided to the requester for reference and use on requester premises without the express approval of the Director, Information Management Services. In exceptional cases, if the provision of classified CIA historical records to the requester for reference and use on requester premises is permitted, the classified CIA historical records provided shall not be disclosed or disseminated beyond the requesting agency, and shall be returned to CIA or destroyed when use of the records has ended. Similarly, any notes taken that are derived from classified historical CIA records that have been accessed in accordance with this part shall not be disclosed or disseminated beyond the requesting agency.
