
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Identification and Markings
###### ยง 2001.23 Classification marking in the electronic environment.
####### i.e.,

(2) Classified e-mail shall be portion marked. Each portion shall be marked to reflect the highest level of information contained in that portion. A text portion containing a uniform resource locator (URL) or reference (link) to another document shall be portion marked based on the classification of the content of the URL or link text, even if the content to which it points reflects a higher classification marking.

(3) A classified signature block shall be portion marked to reflect the highest classification level markings of the information contained in the signature block itself.

(4) Subject lines shall be portion marked to reflect the sensitivity of the information in the subject line itself and shall not reflect any classification markings for the e-mail content or attachments. Subject lines and titles shall be portion marked before the subject or title.

(5) For a classified e-mail, the classification authority block shall be placed after the signature block, but before the overall classification marking string at the end of the e-mail. These blocks may appear as single linear text strings instead of the traditional appearance of three lines of text.

(6) When forwarding or replying to an e-mail, individuals shall ensure that, in addition to the markings required for the content of the reply or forward e-mail itself, the markings shall reflect the overall classification and declassification instructions for the entire string of e-mails and attachments. This will include any newly drafted material, material received from previous senders, and any attachments.
