
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Identification and Markings
###### ยง 2001.23 Classification marking in the electronic environment.
####### Marking classified bulletin board postings and blogs.

(f)(1) A blog, an abbreviation of the term "web log," is a Web site consisting of a series of entries, often commentary, description of events, or other material such as graphics or video, created by the same individual as in a journal or by many individuals. While the content of the overall blog is dynamic, entries are generally static in nature.

(2) The overall classification marking string for every bulletin board or blog shall reflect the overall classification markings for the highest level of information allowed in that space. Linear text appearing on both the top and bottom of the page is acceptable.

(3) Subject lines of bulletin board postings, blog entries, or comments shall be portion marked to reflect the sensitivity of the information in the subject line itself, not the content of the post.

(4) The overall classification marking string for the bulletin board posting, blog entry, or comment shall reflect the classification markings for the subject line, the text of the posting, and any other information in the posting. These strings shall be entered manually or utilizing an electronic classification tool in the first line of text and at the end of the body of the posting. These strings may appear as single linear text.

(5) Bulletin board postings, blog entries, or comments shall be portion marked. Each portion shall be marked to reflect the highest level of information contained in that portion.
