
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Identification and Markings
###### ยง 2001.23 Classification marking in the electronic environment.
####### Marking classified dynamic documents and relational databases.

(e)(1) A dynamic page contains electronic information derived from a changeable source or ad hoc query, such as a relational database. The classification levels of information returned may vary depending upon the specific request.

(2) If there is a mechanism for determining the actual classification markings for dynamic documents, the appropriate classification markings shall be applied to and displayed on the document. If such a mechanism does not exist, the default should be the highest level of information in the database and a warning shall be applied at the top of each page of the document. Such content shall not be used as a basis for derivative classification. An example of such an applied warning may appear as:

(3) This will alert the users of the information that there may be elements of information that may be either unclassified or classified at a lower level than the highest possible classification of the information returned. Users shall be encouraged to make further inquiries concerning the status of individual elements in order to avoid unnecessary classification and/or impediments to information sharing. Resources such as classification guides and points of contact shall be established to assist with these inquiries.

(4) Users developing a document based on query results from a database must properly mark the document in accordance with ยง 2001.22. If there is doubt about the correct markings, users should contact the database originating agency for guidance.
