
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Identification and Markings
###### ยง 2001.24 Additional requirements.
####### Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information (TFNI).

(i)(1) As permitted under 42 U.S.C. 2162(e), the Department of Energy shall remove from the Restricted Data category such information concerning the atomic energy programs of other nations as the Secretary of Energy and the Director of National Intelligence jointly determine to be necessary to carry out the provisions of 50 U.S.C. 403 and 403-1 and safeguarded under applicable Executive orders as "National Security Information" under a process called transclassification.

(2) When Restricted Data information is transclassified and is safeguarded as "National Security Information," it shall be handled, protected, and classified in conformity with the provisions of the Order and this Directive. Such information shall be labeled as "TFNI" and with any additional identifiers prescribed by the Department of Energy. The label "TFNI" shall be included on documents to indicate the information's transclassification from the Restricted Data category and its declassification process governed by the Secretary of Energy under the Atomic Energy Act.

(3) Automatic declassification of documents containing TFNI is prohibited. Documents marked as containing TFNI are excluded from the automatic declassification provisions of the Order until the TFNI designation is properly removed by the Department of Energy. When the Department of Energy determines that a TFNI designation may be removed, any remaining information classified under the Order must be referred to the appropriate agency in accordance with the declassification provisions of the Order and this Directive.
