
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Identification and Markings
###### ยง 2001.24 Additional requirements.
####### Commingling of Restricted Data (RD) and Formerly Restricted Data (FRD) with information classified under the Order.,Nuclear Classification and Declassification,

(h)(1) To the extent practicable, the commingling in the same document of RD or FRD with information classified under the Order should be avoided. When it is not practicable to avoid such commingling, the marking requirements in the Order and this Directive, as well as the marking requirements in 10 CFR part 1045,must be followed.

(2) Automatic declassification of documents containing RD or FRD is prohibited. Documents marked as containing RD or FRD are excluded from the automatic declassification provisions of the Order until the RD or FRD designation is properly removed by the Department of Energy. When the Department of Energy determines that an RD or FRD designation may be removed, any remaining information classified under the Order must be referred to the appropriate agency in accordance with the declassification provisions of the Order and this Directive.

(3) For commingled documents, the "Declassify On" line required by the Order and this Directive shall not include a declassification date or event and shall instead be annotated with "Not Applicable (or N/A) to RD/FRD portions" and "See source list for NSI portions." The source list, as described in ยง 2001.22(c)(1)(ii), shall include the declassification instruction for each of the source documents classified under the Order and shall not appear on the front page of the document.

(4) If an RD or FRD portion is extracted for use in a new document, the requirements of 10 CFR part 1045 must be followed.

(5) If a portion classified under the Order is extracted for use in a new document, the requirements of the Order and this Directive must be followed. The declassification date for the extracted portion shall be determined by using the source list required by ยง 2001.22(c)(1)(ii), the pertinent classification guide, or consultation with the original classification authority with jurisdiction for the information. However, if a commingled document is not portion marked, it shall not be used as a source for a derivatively classified document.

(6) If a commingled document is not portion marked based on appropriate authority, annotating the source list with the declassification instructions and including the "Declassify on" line in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section are not required. The lack of declassification instructions does not eliminate the requirement to process commingled documents for declassification in accordance with the Order, this Directive, the Atomic Energy Act, or 10 CFR part 1045 when they are requested under statute or the Order.
