
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart C - Identification and Markings
###### ยง 2001.24 Additional requirements.
####### Portion marking waivers.

(k)(1) An agency head or senior agency official may request a waiver from the portion marking requirement for a specific category of information. Such a request shall be submitted to the Director of ISOO and should include the reasons that the benefits of portion marking are outweighed by other factors. The request must also demonstrate that the requested waiver will not create impediments to information sharing. Statements citing administrative burden alone will ordinarily not be viewed as sufficient grounds to support a waiver.

(2) Any approved portion marking waiver will be temporary with specific expiration dates.

(3) Requests for portion marking waivers from elements of the Intelligence Community (to include pertinent elements of the Department of Defense) should include a statement of support from the Director of National Intelligence or his or her designee. Requests for portion marking waivers from elements of the Department of Defense (to include pertinent elements of the Intelligence Community) should include a statement of support from the Secretary of Defense or his or her designee. Requests for portion marking waivers from elements of the Department of Homeland Security should include a statement of support from the Secretary of Homeland Security or his or her designee.

(4) A document not portion marked, based on an ISOO-approved waiver, must contain a warning statement that it may not be used as a source for derivative classification.

(5) If a classified document that is not portion marked, based on an ISOO-approved waiver, is transmitted outside the originating organization, the document must be portion marked unless otherwise explicitly provided in the waiver approval.
