
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart D - Declassification
###### ยง 2001.30 Automatic declassification.
####### e.g.,

(ii) The production of special nuclear material,enriched uranium or plutonium; or

(iii) The use of special nuclear material in the production of energy.

(2) Formerly Restricted Data is information that is still classified under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, but which has been removed from the Restricted Data category because it is related primarily to the military utilization of atomic weapons.

(3) Any document marked as containing Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data or identified as potentially containing unmarked Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data shall be referred to the Department of Energy in accordance with ยง 2001.34(b)(8).

(4) Automatic declassification of documents containing Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data is prohibited. Documents marked as containing Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data are excluded from the automatic declassification provisions of the Order until the Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data designation is properly removed by the Department of Energy. When the Department of Energy determines that a Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data designation may be removed, any remaining information classified under the Order must be referred to the appropriate agency in accordance with the declassification provisions of the Order and this Directive.

(5) Any document containing information concerning foreign nuclear programs that was removed from the Restricted Data category in order to carry out provisions of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, shall be referred to the Department of Energy.
