
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart D - Declassification
###### ยง 2001.33 Mandatory review for declassification.
####### Processing,Requests for classified records in the custody of the originating agency.

(2)-(i)A valid mandatory declassification review request must be of sufficient specificity to allow agency personnel to locate the records containing the information sought with a reasonable amount of effort. Requests for broad types of information, entire file series of records, or similar non-specific requests may be denied by agencies for processing under this section. In responding to mandatory declassification review requests, agencies shall make a final determination within one year from the date of receipt. When information cannot be declassified in its entirety, agencies shall make reasonable efforts to release, consistent with other applicable laws, those declassified portions of the requested information that constitute a coherent segment. Upon denial, in whole or in part, of an initial request, the agency shall also notify the requestor of the right of an administrative appeal, which must be filed within 60 days of receipt of the denial. Agencies receiving mandatory review requests are expected to conduct a line-by-line review of the record(s) for public access and are expected to release the information to the requestor, unless that information is prohibited from release under the provisions of a statutory authority, such as, but not limited to, the Freedom of Information Act, (5 U.S.C. 552), as amended, the Presidential Records Act of 1978 (44 U.S.C. 2201-2207), or the National Security Act of 1947 (Pub. L. 235, 61 Stat. 496, 50 U.S.C. Chapter 15).
