
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart B - Selecting the Appropriate Instrument
####### ยง 22.220 Exemptions.

Under 31 U.S.C. 6307, "the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may exempt an agency transaction or program" from the requirements of 31 U.S.C. chapter 63. Grants officers shall request such exemptions only in exceptional circumstances. Each request shall specify for which individual transaction or program the exemption is sought; the reasons for requesting an exemption; the anticipated consequences if the exemption is not granted; and the implications for other agency transactions and programs if the exemption is granted. The procedures for requesting exemptions shall be:

(a) In cases where 31 U.S.C. chapter 63 would require use of a contract and an exemption from that requirement is desired:

(1) The grants officer shall submit a request for exemption, through appropriate channels established by his or her DoD Component (see 32 CFR 21.320(a)), to the Director of Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy (DDP&AP).

(2) The DDP&AP, after coordination with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (ASD (R&E)), shall transmit the request to OMB or notify the DoD Component that the request has been disapproved.

(b) In other cases, the DoD Component shall submit a request for the exemption through appropriate channels to the ASD (R&E). The ASD (R&E) shall transmit the request to OMB or notify the DoD Component that the request has been disapproved.

(c) Where an exemption is granted, documentation of the approval shall be maintained in the award file.
