
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart F - Self-Inspections
###### ยง 2001.60 General.
####### Approach.

(c)The senior agency official shall determine the means and methods for the conduct of self-inspections.

(1) Self-inspections should evaluate the adherence to the principles and requirements of the Order and this directive and the effectiveness of agency programs covering original classification, derivative classification, declassification, safeguarding, security violations, security education and training, and management and oversight.

(2) Regular reviews of representative samples of the agency's original and derivative classification actions shall encompass all agency activities that generate classified information. They shall include a sample of varying types of classified information (in document and electronic format such as e-mail) to provide a representative sample of the activity's classification actions. The sample shall be proportionally sufficient to enable a credible assessment of the agency's classified product. Agency personnel who are assigned to conduct reviews of agencies' original and derivative classification actions shall be knowledgeable of the classification and marking requirements of the Order and this directive, and have access to pertinent security classification guides. In accordance with section 5.4(d)(4) of the Order, the senior agency official shall authorize appropriate agency officials to correct misclassification actions.

(3) Self-inspections should include a review of relevant security directives and instructions, as well as interviews with producers and users of classified information.
