
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart G - Security Education and Training
###### ยง 2001.71 Coverage.
####### Training for persons who apply derivative classification markings.

(d)Persons who apply derivative classification markings shall receive training in the proper application of the derivative classification principles of the Order, emphasizing the avoidance of over-classification. At a minimum, the training shall cover the principles of derivative classification, classification levels, duration of classification, identification and markings, classification prohibitions and limitations, sanctions, classification challenges, security classification guides, and information sharing.

(1) Personnel shall receive this training prior to derivatively classifying information.

(2) In addition to this preparatory training, derivative classifiers shall receive such training at least once every two years.

(3) Derivative classifiers who do not receive such mandatory training at least once every two years shall have their authority to apply derivative classification markings suspended until they have received such training.

(i) An agency head, deputy agency head, or senior agency official may grant a waiver of this requirement if an individual is unable to receive this training due to unavoidable circumstances. All such waivers shall be documented.

(ii) Whenever such a waiver is granted, the individual shall receive the required training as soon as practicable.
