
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2001 - CLASSIFIED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
##### Subpart H - Standard Forms
###### ยง 2001.80 Prescribed standard forms.
####### i.e.,,i.e.,,i.e.,

(ii) The SF 312 may be filled out electronically or by hand, then must be signed. It may be signed by hand and scanned, if the implementing agency permits and the scanned version is done in a way that constitutes a legally enforceable facsimile. Alternatively, the form may be digitally signed if the implementing agency permits, and if the digital signature mechanism employs public key cryptography in a way that meaningfully guarantees authenticity (that the digital signature was made by the person it claims to have been made by); consent (that the person who digitally signed the form meant to do so); and integrity (that the SF 312 has not changed since the signature was made). Digital signatures created using Personal Identity Verification (PIV) cards or common access cards (CACs) issued by the U.S. Government that are compliant with Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), or its successor, meet the requirements of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii). They include public key infrastructure (PKI), digital signature certificates issued by a certificate authority (CA), and a PIN the signer must enter in order to digitally sign. Agencies may choose to use other digital signature mechanisms than the PIV or CAC cards, as long as they meet the requirements of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii). The form may not be signed using other forms of electronic signature (e-signature), such as typing "/s/[first and last name]" or attaching an image of a handwritten signature.

(iii) The SF 312 is the current authorized form; if an employee originally signed the now outdated SF 189 or SF 189-A, or a form under an approved waiver, as agreement to nondisclosure, the forms remain valid. The SF 189 and SF 189-A are no longer available for use with new employees.

(iv) The use of the "Security Debriefing Acknowledgement" portion of the SF 312 is optional at the discretion of the implementing agency. If an agency chooses not to record its debriefing by signing/dating the debriefing section of the SF 312, then the agency shall provide an alternative record.

(v) An authorized representative of a contractor, licensee, grantee, or other non-Government organization, acting as a designated agent of the United States, may witness the execution of the SF 312 by another non-Government employee, and may accept it on behalf of the United States. Also, an employee of a United States agency may witness the execution of the SF 312 by an employee, contractor, licensee, or grantee of another United States agency, provided that an authorized United States Government official or, for non-Government employees only, a designated agent of the United States subsequently accepts by signature the SF 312 on behalf of the United States. If the SF 312 is digitally signed, it does not require a witness to observe and verify the digital signature, and therefore also does not require an official to subsequently accept the signature.

(vi) The provisions of the SF 312, the SF 189, and the SF 189-A do not supersede the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 2302, which pertain to the protected disclosure of information by Government employees, or any other laws of the United States.

(vii) Each agency must retain its executed copies of the SF 312, SF 189, and SF 189-A in file systems from which an agreement can be expeditiously retrieved in the event that the United States must seek its enforcement or a subsequent employer must confirm its prior execution. The original (either in paper form or electronic form), or a legally enforceable facsimile that is retained in lieu of the original, such as microfiche, microfilm, computer disk, or electronic storage medium, must be retained for 50 years following its date of execution. For agreements executed by civilian employees of the United States Government, an agency may store the executed copy of the SF 312 and SF 189 in the United States Office of Personnel Management's Official Personnel Folder as a long-term (right side) document for that employee. An agency may permit its contractors, licensees, and grantees to retain the executed agreements of their employees during the time of employment. Upon the termination of employment, the contractors, licensee, or grantee shall deliver the original or legally enforceable facsimile of the executed SF 312, SF 189, or SF 189-A of that employee to the Government agency primarily responsible for his or her classified work. A contractor, licensee, or grantee of an agency participating in the National Industrial Security Program shall provide the copy or legally enforceable facsimile of the executed SF 312, SF 189, or SF 189-A of a terminated employee to their cognizant security office. Each agency shall inform ISOO of the file systems that it uses to store these agreements for each category of affected individuals.

(viii) Only the Director of National Intelligence, as the Security Executive Agent, may grant an agency's request for a waiver from the use of the SF 312. To apply for a waiver, an agency must submit its proposed alternative nondisclosure agreement to the Director of the Special Security Center (SSC), Office of the Director of National Intelligence, along with a justification for its use. The Director, SSC, shall request a determination about the alternative agreement's enforceability from the Department of Justice.

(ix) The national stock number for the SF 312 is 7540-01-280-5499.
