
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2002 - CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI)
##### Subpart B - Key Elements of the CUI Program
###### ยง 2002.16 Accessing and disseminating.
####### Limited dissemination.

(4)(i) Agencies may place additional limits on disseminating CUI only through use of the limited dissemination controls approved by the CUI EA and published in the CUI Registry. These limited dissemination controls are separate from any controls that a CUI Specified authority requires or permits.

(ii) Using limited dissemination controls to unnecessarily restrict access to CUI is contrary to the goals of the CUI Program. Agencies may therefore use these controls only when it furthers a lawful Government purpose, or laws, regulations, or Government-wide policies require or permit an agency to do so. If an authorized holder has significant doubt about whether it is appropriate to use a limited dissemination control, the authorized holder should consult with and follow the designating agency's policy. If, after consulting the policy, significant doubt still remains, the authorized holder should not apply the limited dissemination control.

(iii) Only the designating agency may apply limited dissemination controls to CUI. Other entities that receive CUI and seek to apply additional controls must request permission to do so from the designating agency.

(iv) Authorized holders may apply limited dissemination controls to any CUI for which they are required or permitted to restrict access by or to certain entities.

(v) Designating entities may combine approved limited dissemination controls listed in the CUI Registry to accommodate necessary practices.
