
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2002 - CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI)
##### Subpart B - Key Elements of the CUI Program
###### ยง 2002.20 Marking.
####### Portion marking CUI.

(f)(1) Agencies are permitted and encouraged to portion mark all CUI, to facilitate information sharing and proper handling.

(2) Authorized holders who designate CUI may mark CUI only with portion markings approved by the CUI EA and listed in the CUI Registry.

(3) CUI portion markings consist of the following elements:

(i) The CUI control marking, which must be the acronym "CUI";

(ii) CUI category/subcategory portion markings (if required or permitted); and

(iii) CUI limited dissemination control portion markings (if required).

(4) When using portion markings:

(i) CUI category and subcategory portion markings are optional for CUI Basic. Agencies may manage their use by means of agency policy.

(ii) Authorized holders permitted to designate CUI must portion mark both CUI and uncontrolled unclassified portions.

(5) In cases where portions consist of several segments, such as paragraphs, sub-paragraphs, bullets, and sub-bullets, and the control level is the same throughout, designators of CUI may place a single portion marking at the beginning of the primary paragraph or bullet. However, if the portion includes different CUI categories or subcategories, or if the portion includes some CUI and some uncontrolled unclassified information, authorized holders should portion mark all segments separately to avoid improper control of any one segment.

(6) Each portion must reflect the control level of only that individual portion. If the information contained in a sub-paragraph or sub-bullet is a different CUI category or subcategory from its parent paragraph or parent bullet, this does not make the parent paragraph or parent bullet controlled at that same level.

(7) The CUI Registry contains additional, specific guidance and instructions for using CUI portion markings and uncontrolled unclassified portion markings.
