
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2002 - CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI)
##### Subpart C - CUI Program Management
###### ยง 2002.50 Challenges to designation of information as CUI.

(a) Authorized holders of CUI who, in good faith, believe that its designation as CUI is improper or incorrect, or who believe they have received unmarked CUI, should notify the disseminating agency of this belief. When the disseminating agency is not the designating agency, the disseminating agency must notify the designating agency.

(b) If the information at issue is involved in Government litigation, or the challenge to its designation or marking as CUI arises as part of the litigation, the issue of whether the challenger may access the information will be addressed via the litigation process instead of by the agency CUI program. Challengers should nonetheless notify the agency of the issue through the agency process described below, and include its litigation connection.

(c) CUI SAOs must create a process within their agency to accept and manage challenges to CUI status. At a minimum, this process must include a timely response to the challenger that:

(1) Acknowledges receipt of the challenge;

(2) States an expected timetable for response to the challenger;

(3) Provides an opportunity for the challenger to define a rationale for belief that the CUI in question is inappropriately designated;

(4) Gives contact information for the official making the agency's decision in this matter; and

(5) Ensures that challengers who are authorized holders have the option of bringing such challenges anonymously, and that challengers are not subject to retribution for bringing such challenges.

(d) Until the challenge is resolved, authorized holders should continue to safeguard and disseminate the challenged CUI at the control level indicated in the markings.

(e) If a challenging party disagrees with the response to a challenge, that party may use the Dispute Resolution procedures described in ยง 2002.52.
