
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2004 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM (NISP)
##### Subpart C - Operations
###### ยง 2004.34 Foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI).
####### NID process.

(2)(i) The CSA makes the NID for any categories of proscribed information for which the entity requires access.

(ii) In cases in which any category of the proscribed information is controlled by another agency (ODNI for SCI, DOE for RD, NSA for COMSEC), the CSA asks that controlling agency to concur on the NID for that category of information.

(iii) The CSA informs the GCA and the entity when the NID is complete. In cases involving SCI, RD, or COMSEC, the CSA also informs the GCA and the entity when a controlling agency concurs or non-concurs on that agency's category of proscribed information. The entity may begin accessing a category of proscribed information once the CSA informs the GCA and the entity that the controlling agency concurs, even if other categories of proscribed information are pending concurrence.

(iv) An entity's access to SCI, RD, or COMSEC remains in effect so long as the entity remains eligible for access to classified information and the contract or agreement (or program or project) which imposes the requirement for access to those categories of proscribed information remains in effect, except under the following circumstances:

(A) The CSA, GCA, or controlling agency becomes aware of adverse information that impacts the entity eligibility determination;

(B) The CSA's threat assessment pertaining to the entity indicates a risk to one of the categories of proscribed information;

(C) The CSA becomes aware of any material change regarding the source, nature, and extent of FOCI; or

(D) The entity's record of NISP compliance, based on CSA reviews in accordance with ยง 2004.26, becomes less than satisfactory.

(v) Under any of these circumstances, the CSA determines whether an entity may continue being eligible for access to classified information, it must change the FOCI mitigation measure in order to remain eligible, or the CSA must terminate or revoke access.
