
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XX - Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
#### PART 2004 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM (NISP)
##### Subpart C - Operations
###### ยง 2004.36 Determining entity employee eligibility for access to classified information.
####### i.e.,

(i) Determines whether entity employees meet the criteria established in the Security Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 4, National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (December 10, 2016). Entity employees must have a legitimate requirement (need to know) for access to classified information in the performance of assigned duties and eligibility must be clearly consistent with the interest of the national security.

(ii) Notifies entities of its determinations of employee eligibility for access to classified information.

(iii) Terminates eligibility status when there is no longer a need for access to classified information by entity employees.

(2) The responsible CSA maintains:

(i) SF 312s, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreements, or other approved nondisclosure agreements, executed by entity employees, as prescribed by ODNI in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.80 and E.O. 13526; and

(ii) Records of its entity employee eligibility determinations, suspensions, and revocations.

(3) CSAs ensure that entities limit the number of employees with access to classified information to the minimum number necessary to work on contracts or agreements requiring access to classified information.

(4) The CSA determines the need for event-driven reinvestigations for entity employees.

(5) CSAs use the Federal Investigative Standards (FIS) issued jointly by the Suitability and Security Executive Agents.

(6) The CSA provides guidance to entities on:

(i) Requesting employee eligibility determinations, to include guidance for submitting fingerprints; and

(ii) Granting employee access to classified information when the employee has had a break in access or a break in employment.

(7) If the CSA receives adverse information about an eligible entity employee, the CSA should consider and possibly investigate, as authorized, to determine whether the employee's eligibility to access classified information remains clearly consistent with the interests of national security. If the CSA determines that an entity employee's continued eligibility is not in the interest of national security, the CSA implements procedures leading to suspension and ultimate revocation of the employee's eligible status, and notifies the entity.
