
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXI - National Security Council
#### PART 2102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2102.13 Requirements for access to a record.

(a) Individuals requesting access to a record or system of records in which there is information concerning them must address a request in writing to the Staff Secretary of the NSC (see ยง 2102.1). Due to restricted access to NSC offices in the Old Executive Office Building where the files are located, requests cannot be made in person.

(b) All written requests should contain a concise description of the records to which access is requested. In addition, the requestor should include any other information which he or she feels would assist in the timely identification of the record. Verification of the requestor's identity will be determined under the same procedures used in requests for learning of the existence of a record.

(c) To the extent possible, any request for access will be answered by the Staff Secretary or a designated alternate within ten working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays) of the receipt of the request. In the event that a response cannot be made within this time, the requestor will be notified by mail of the reasons for the delay and the date upon which a reply can be expected.

(d) The NSC response will forward a copy of the requested materials unless further identification or clarification of the request is required. In the event access is denied, the requestor shall be informed of the reasons therefore and the name and address of the individual to whom an appeal should be directed.
