
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXI - National Security Council
#### PART 2102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2102.15 Requirements for requests to amend records.

(a) Individuals wishing to amend a record contained in the NSC systems of records pertaining to them must submit a request in writing to the Staff Secretary of the NSC in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.

(b) All requests for amendment or correction of a record must state concisely the reason for requesting the amendment. Such requests should include a brief statement which describes the information the requestor believes to be inaccurate, incomplete, or unnecessary and the amendment or correction desired.

(c) To the extent possible, every request for amendment of a record will be answered within ten working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays) of the receipt of the request. In the event that a response cannot be made within this time, the requestor will be notified by mail of the reasons for the delay and the date upon which a reply can be expected. A final response to a request for amendment will include the NSC Staff determination on whether to grant or deny the request. If the request is denied, the response will include:

(1) The reasons for the decision;

(2) The name and address of the individual to whom an appeal should be directed;

(3) A description of the process for review of the appeal within the NSC; and

(4) A description of any other procedures which may be required of the individual in order to process the appeal.
