
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXI - National Security Council
#### PART 2102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 2102.21 Procedures for appeal of determination to deny access to or amendment of requested records.

(a) Individuals wishing to appeal an NSC Staff denial of a request for access or to amend a record concerning them must address a letter of appeal to the Staff Secretary of the NSC. The letter must be received within thirty days from the date of the Staff Secretary's notice of denial and, at a minimum, should identify the following:

(1) The records involved;

(2) The dates of the initial request and subsequent NSC determination; and

(3) A brief statement of the reasons supporting the request for reversal of the adverse determination.

(b) Within thirty working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal Federal holidays) of the date of receipt of the letter of appeal, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (hereinafter the "Assistant"), or the Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (hereinafter the "Deputy Assistant"), acting in his name, shall issue a determination on the appeal. In the event that a final determination cannot be made within this time period, the requestor will be informed of the delay, the reasons therefor and the date on which a final response is expected.

(c) If the original request was for access and the initial determination is reversed, a copy of the records sought will be sent to the individual. If the initial determination is upheld, the requestor will be so advised and informed of the right to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g).

(d) If the initial denial of a request to amend a record is reversed, the records will be corrected and a copy of the amended record will be sent to the individual. In the event the original decision is upheld by the Assistant to the President, the requestor will be so advised and informed in writing of his or her right to seek judicial review of the final agency determination, pursuant to section 552a(g) of title 5, U.S.C. In addition, the requestor will be advised of his right to have a concise statement of the reasons for disagreeing with the final determination appended to the disputed records. This statement should be mailed to the Staff Secretary within ten working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal Holidays) of the date of the requestor's receipt of the final determination.
