
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXIV - Office of Science and Technology Policy
#### PART 2400 - REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT E.O. 12356; OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Original Classification
###### ยง 2400.8 Limitations on delegation of original classification authority.
####### Exceptional Cases.

(g)When an employee, contractor, licensee, or grantee of OSTP that does not have original classification authority originates information believed by that person to require classification, the information shall be protected in a manner consistent with these Regulations as provided in ยง 2400.6(d) of this part. The information shall be transmitted promptly as provided in these Regulations to the official in OSTP who has appropriate subject matter interest and classification authority with respect to this information. That official shall decide within thirty (30) days whether to classify this information. If the information is not within OSTP's area of classification responsibility, OSTP shall promptly transmit the information to the responsible agency. If it is not clear which agency has classification responsibility for this information, it shall be sent to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office. The Director shall determine the agency having primary subject matter interest and forward the information, with appropriate recommendations, to that agency for a classification determination.
