
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXIV - Office of Science and Technology Policy
#### PART 2400 - REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT E.O. 12356; OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Declassification and Downgrading
###### ยง 2400.21 Mandatory review for declassification.
####### Reproduction of documents.

(ii)Documents will be reproduced at a rate of $.25 per page for all copying of four pages or more. No fee shall be assessed for reproducing documents that are three pages or less, or for the first three pages of longer documents.

(2) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable under this section will amount to more than $25, and the requestor has not indicated in advance a willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated, the requester shall be promptly notified of the amount of the anticipated fee or such portion thereof as can readily be estimated. In instances where the estimated fees will greatly exceed $25, an advance deposit may be required. Dispatch of such a notice or request shall suspend the running of the period for response by OSTP until a reply is received from the requester.

(3) Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or a postal money order. Remittances shall be made to the Treasury of the United States and mailed to the Executive Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy, Executive Office of the President, Washington, DC 20506.

(4) A receipt for fees paid will be given only upon request. Refund of fees paid for services actually rendered will not be made.

(5) If a requester fails to pay within thirty days for services rendered, further action on any other requests submitted by that requestor shall be suspended.

(6) The Executive Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy may waive all or part of any fee provided for in this section when it is deemed to be in either the interest of the OSTP or the general public.
