
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXIV - Office of Science and Technology Policy
#### PART 2400 - REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT E.O. 12356; OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - Safeguarding
###### ยง 2400.29 Accountability and control.

(a) Each item of Top Secret, Secret, and Confidential information is subject to control and accountability requirements.

(b) The Security Officer will serve as Top Secret Control Officer (TSCO) for the Office of Science and Technology Policy and will be responsible for the supervision of the Top Secret control program. He/she will be assisted by an Assistant Top Secret Control Officer (ATSCO) to effect the Controls prescribed herein for all Top Secret material.

(c) The TSCO shall receive, transmit, and maintain current access and accountability records for Top Secret information. The records shall show the number and distribution of all Top Secret documents, including any reproduced copies.

(d) Top Secret documents and material will be accounted for by a continuous chain of receipts.

(e) An inventory of Top Secret documents shall be made at least annually.

(f) Destruction of Top Secret documents shall be accomplished only by the TSCO or the ATSCO.

(g) Records shall be maintained to show the number and distribution of all classified documents covered by special access programs, and of all Secret and Confidential documents which are marked with special dissemination and reproduction limitations.

(h) The Security Officer will develop procedures for the accountability and control of Secret and Confidential information. These procedures shall require all Secret and Confidential material originated or received by OSTP to be controlled. Control shall be accomplished by the ATSCO.
