
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 66 - QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR ENLISTMENT, APPOINTMENT, AND INDUCTION
###### ยง 66.3 Definitions.
####### Adjudicating authority.

Any government official who is empowered to make findings or determinations concerning an alleged criminal offense (adult and juvenile) and establish responsibility for commission of the offense. Examples include judges, courts, magistrates, prosecutors, hearing officers, military commanders (for Article 15 actions pursuant to 10 U.S.C. chapter 47, suspension of dependent privileges, or similar actions), probation officers, juvenile referees, and parole officers or boards.

(1) A finding, decision, sentence, or judgment by an adjudicating authority, against an individual, that was other than unconditionally dropped or dismissed or the individual was acquitted is considered adverse adjudication. If the adjudicating authority places a condition or restraint that leads to dismissal, drops the charges, acquits, or the records are later expunged, or the charge is dismissed after a certain period of time, the adjudication is still considered adverse. A suspension of sentence, not processed, or a dismissal after compliance with imposed conditions is also adverse adjudication. This includes fines and forfeiture of bond in lieu of trial.

(2) A conviction for violating any federal law (including 10 U.S.C. chapter 47), or any State or municipal law or ordinance) is considered an adverse adjudication. For example, a shoplifter is reprimanded and required by the on-scene police officer, store security guard, or manager to pay for the item before leaving the store but is not charged, not found guilty, or is not convicted. In this situation, there is no adverse adjudication because no legal proceedings occurred and no adjudicating authority was involved.
