
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXIV - Office of Science and Technology Policy
#### PART 2402 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### ยง 2402.6 Timing of responses to requests.
###### Expedited processing of request.

(d)(1) A requester may make a request for expedited processing at any time.

(2) When a request for expedited processing is received, OSTP must determine whether to grant the request for expedited processing within ten (10) calendar days of its receipt. Requests will receive expedited processing if one of the following compelling needs is met:

(i) The requester can establish that failure to receive the records quickly could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or

(ii) The requester is primarily engaged in disseminating information and can demonstrate that an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity exists.

(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. As a matter of administrative discretion, OSTP may waive the formal certification requirement.

(4) Administrative appeals of denials of expedited processing will be given expeditious consideration. If the FOIA Appeals Officer upholds the denial of expedited processing, that decision is immediately subject to judicial review in the appropriate Federal district court.
