
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXIV - Office of Science and Technology Policy
#### PART 2402 - REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### ยง 2402.10 Waiver of fees.
###### Restrictions on charging fees.

(d)Except as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, if OSTP fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits for responding to a request, it may not charge search fees. In addition, subject to the exceptions set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, if OSTP does not comply with the FOIA's time limits for responding to a request, it may not charge duplication fees when records are not sought for a commercial use and the request is made by an educational institution, non-commercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media.

(1) If OSTP determines that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and provides timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, then a failure to comply with the statutory time limit shall be excused for an additional ten (10) days.

(2) If OSTP determines that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, then OSTP may charge search fees and duplication fees, where applicable, if the following steps are taken. OSTP must:

(i) Provide timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA; and

(ii) Discuss with the requester via postal mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).

(3) If a court determines that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, then a failure to comply with the statutory time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
