
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 66 - QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR ENLISTMENT, APPOINTMENT, AND INDUCTION
###### § 66.5 Responsibilities.

(a) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (ASD(M&RA)):

(1) Acts as an advisor to the USD(P&R) on the Reserve enlistment and appointment standards.

(2) Acts as an advisor to the USD(P&R) on the height and weight requirements of the standards in § 66.6.

(3) Ensures the U.S. Military Entrance Processing Command assists the Military Services in implementing the standards in § 66.6.

(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)) acts as an advisor to the USD(P&R) on the medical requirements of the standards in § 66.6.

(c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments:

(1) Oversee conformance with this part.

(2) Recommend suggested changes to this part to the USD(P&R) as necessary.

(3) Establish other Service-specific standards as necessary to implement this part.

(4) Review all standards on an annual basis.

(5) Establish procedures to grant waivers, accomplish reviews, and require individuals to meet the appropriate standards or be granted an exception pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 504(a).

(6) Request approval from the USD(P&R) for generalized exceptions to these standards as permitted by law.

(7) Use the standards in § 66.6 to determine the entrance qualifications for all individuals being enlisted, appointed, or inducted into any component of the Military Services.
