
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXVII - Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations
#### PART 2700 - SECURITY INFORMATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Declassification and Downgrading
###### ยง 2700.33 Mandatory review for declassification.
####### Review.

(c)(1) Within sixty days from its receipt, OMSN shall inform the requestor of the determination of the mandatory review for declassification.

(2) If the determination is to withhold some or all of the material requested, the requestor may appeal the determination. The requestor shall be informed that an appeal must be made in writing within sixty days of receipt of the denial and should be addressed to the chairperson of the OMSN Classification Review Committee established pursuant to ยง 2700.52.

(3) No agency in possession of a classified document may, in response to a request for the document made under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or under section 3-5 of E.O. 12065, refuse to confirm the existence or non-existence of the document, unless the fact of its existence or non-existence would itself be classifiable.

(4) The requestor shall be informed of the appellate determination within thirty days of receipt of the appeal.

(5) In considering requests for mandatory review, OMSN may decline to review again any request for material which has been recently reviewed and denied, except insofar as the request constitutes an appeal under paragraph (f) of this section.
