
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXVII - Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations
#### PART 2700 - SECURITY INFORMATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Declassification and Downgrading
###### ยง 2700.33 Mandatory review for declassification.
####### Fees.

(f)(1) Fees for the location and reproduction of information which is the subject of a mandatory review request shall be assessed according to the following schedule:

(i) Search for records: $5.00 per hour when the search is conducted by a clerical employee; $8.00 per hour when the search is conducted by a professional employee. No fee shall be assessed for searches of less than one hour.

(ii) Reproduction of documents: Documents will be reproduced at a rate of $.25 per page for all copying of four pages or more. No fee shall be assessed for reproducing documents which are three pages or less, or for the first three pages of longer documents.

(2) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable under this section will amount to more than $25.00, and the requestor has not indicated in advance a willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated, the requestor shall be promptly notified of the amount of the anticipated fee or such portion thereof as can readily be estimated. In instances where the estimated fees will greatly exceed $25.00, an advance deposit may be required. Dispatch of such a notice or request shall suspend the running of the period for response by OMSN until a reply is received from the requestor.

(3) Remittance shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft on a bank in the United States, or a postal money order. Remittance shall be made payable to Treasurer of the United States and mailed to the address noted in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) A receipt for fees paid will be provided only upon request. Refund of fees for services actually rendered will not be made.

(5) OMSN may waive all or part of any fee provided for in this section when it is deemed to be in either the interest of OMSN or of the general public.
