
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 66 - QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR ENLISTMENT, APPOINTMENT, AND INDUCTION
###### ยง 66.6 Enlistment, appointment, and induction criteria.
####### Basic eligibility criteria,Age.

(b)-(1)(i) To be eligible for Regular enlistment, the minimum age for enlistment is 17 years and the maximum age is 42 years in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 505. The maximum age for a prior service enlistee is determined by adding the individual's years of prior service to age 42. The Secretary concerned will establish enlistment age standards for the Reserve Components in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12102.

(ii) Age limitations for appointment as a commissioned or warrant officer normally depend on the Military Service concerned. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 532, most persons appointed as commissioned officers must be able to complete 20 years of active commissioned service before their 62nd birthday to receive a Regular commission.

(iii) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12201, a person will be at least 18 years of age for appointment as a Reserve Officer. The maximum age qualification for initial appointment as a Reserve Officer will not be less than 47 years of age for individuals in a health profession specialty designated by the Secretary concerned as a specialty critically needed in wartime.

(iv) In accordance with 32 U.S.C. 313, to be eligible for original enlistment in the National Guard, a person must be at least 17 years of age and under 45, or under 64 years of age and a former member of the Regular Army, Regular Navy, Regular Air Force, or Regular Marine Corps. To be eligible for reenlistment, a person must be under 64 years of age.

(v) In accordance with 32 U.S.C. 313, to be eligible for appointment as an officer of the National Guard, a person must be at least 18 years of age and under 64 years of age.
