
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle B - Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
### Chapter XXVIII - Office of the Vice President of the United States
#### PART 2800 - SECURITY PROCEDURES
##### ยง 2800.4 General information.
###### Within the Office of the Vice President and the White House Complex.,Use of see through messenger envelopes is not authorized.

(ii)Transfer or movement of classified material will be accomplished only by properly cleared persons handcarrying the material to the recipient. The material shall be carried in an envelope marked with the appropriate classification.Recipients will sign a receipt (GSA Optional Form 112) for all material classified SECRET and TOP SECRET. Whenever TOP SECRET material is transferred, the Staff Security Office will be notified in order to maintain accurate accountability of the material. Classified material will never be delivered to an uncleared person, left in an unoccupied office, or sent through unclassified mail delivery/distribution systems.

(iii) Staff members requiring the use of classified material at conferences or meetings held outside the Washington, DC Metropolitan area and who intend to use commercial transportation shall provide the material to the Staff Security Office far enough in advance to assure that the material will be available on or before the date needed. This requirement does not apply when utilizing government/military transportation. In this case, material may be handcarried. The Staff Security Office will brief each staff member prior to departure concerning security requirements or arrangements needed to safeguard the material while away from his office. For meetings or conferences within the Washington, DC Metropolitan area, members may handcarry classified material. Use of classified material during a conference or meeting requires increased awareness and precautionary handling to avoid security violations and/or compromises. Staff members using classified material during a meeting or conference are responsible for ensuring that the material is properly protected at all times, and that personnel present posses appropriate clearances for the material being presented.
