
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 66 - QUALIFICATION STANDARDS FOR ENLISTMENT, APPOINTMENT, AND INDUCTION
###### ยง 66.6 Enlistment, appointment, and induction criteria.
####### Drugs and alcohol.,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101001p.pdf

(9)A current or history of alcohol dependence, drug dependence, alcohol abuse, or other drug abuse is incompatible with military life and does not meet military standards in accordance with DoD Instruction 6130.03. Pursuant to DoD Instruction 1010.01, "Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program (MPDATP)" (available at), the pre-accession screening process is structured to identify individuals with a history of drug (including pharmaceutical medications, illegal drugs and other substances of abuse) and alcohol abuse.

(i) Drug use (to include illegal drugs, other illicit substances, and pharmaceutical medications), drug abuse, and alcohol abuse may be self-admitted by an applicant, discovered during the medical screening process, or identified by the drug and alcohol test (DAT), which is administered at the Military Entrance Processing Stations (MEPS) or other approved military processing facility.

(ii) Current or history of alcohol dependence, drug dependence, alcohol abuse, or other drug abuse may be a medically disqualifying condition based on the standards in accordance with DoD Instruction 6130.03. The MEPS Chief Medical Officer or equivalent, when the physical is not performed at MEPS, will make that determination based on all of the information available on a case-by-case basis. These instances will be treated as a medical disqualification and handled in accordance with the guidance provided in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(iii) Individuals who test positive for illegal drugs on the DAT, which is administered as part of the accession physical, will be disqualified. A waiver may be requested. Waiver requirements are outlined in ยง 66.7.

(iv) Service qualification standards, regarding drugs and alcohol, may be more restrictive.
