
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.1 Purpose.

This part:

(a) Implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the operation of voluntary education programs in the DoD.

(b) Establishes policy stating the eligibility criteria for tuition assistance (TA) and the requirement for a memorandum of understanding (MOU) from all educational institutions providing educational programs through the DoD TA Program.

(c) Establishes policy that:

(1) All educational institutions providing education programs through the DoD Tuition Assistance (TA) Program:

(i) Will provide meaningful information to students about the financial cost and attendance at an institution so military students can make informed decisions on where to attend school.

(ii) Will not use unfair, deceptive, and abusive recruiting practices.

(iii) Will provide academic and student support services to Service members and their families.

(2) Creates rules to strengthen existing procedures for access to DoD installations by educational institutions.

(3) Requires an annual review and notification process of uniform semester-hour (or equivalent) TA caps and annual TA ceilings.

(4) Requires the Military Departments to provide their Service members with a joint services transcript (JST).

(5) Implements the DoD Postsecondary Education Complaint System for Service members, spouses, and adult family members to register student complaints.

(6) Authorizes the Military Departments to establish Service-specific TA eligibility criteria and management controls.

(d) Establishes the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.
