
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.dodmou.com

(16) On a date to be determined, but not earlier than 60 days following the publication of this part in theto receive TA, all educational institution home campuses must sign the revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part, and the name of the educational institution must be posted on the DoD MOU Web site under the 'Participating Institutions' tab (located at). One signed, revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with the educational institution's home campus will cover any program offered by the educational institution, regardless of location. The requirement to sign the revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU contained in this part applies to institutions with a previously approved and signed DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU posted on the DoD MOU Web site.

(17) To the extent that any provision of the standard language of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU template in appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part, results from DoD policy that conflicts with a state law or regulation, the DASD(MCFP) may authorize amending the standard language of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU template on a case-by-case basis to the extent permissible by Federal law or regulation.

(18) A DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with an educational institution may be suspended or terminated by DoD in these circumstances:

(i) The DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with an educational institution may be terminated by the ASD(R&FM) following written notice and an opportunity to respond for the failure to comply with any element of this part of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU. In addition, an otherwise qualified educational institution may be suspended from participating in the tuition assistance program by the ASD(R&FM) following written notice and an opportunity to respond through either the termination of an existing DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU or the refusal by DoD to enter into a new DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU upon indictment of the educational institution or any senior official of the educational institution on a criminal charge related to the operation of the educational institution. The decision of the ASD(R&FM) in either of these cases may be appealed to the USD(P&R), and the decision of the USD(P&R) will be deemed to be the final administrative action by DoD on the matter.

(ii) An otherwise qualified educational institution may also be immediately suspended from participating in the tuition assistance program through either the termination of an existing DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU or the refusal to enter into a new DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU by the USD(P&R) on national security grounds. Written notice of the action will be provided to the educational institution, and, if practicable without damaging national security, the written notice will include a short unclassified summary of the reasons for the action. Such a decision of the USD(P&R) is only appealable to the Secretary of Defense, who has authorized the Deputy Secretary of Defense to act on such an appeal.

(iii) The authorities pursuant to this paragraph are not delegable.
