
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### Guidelines for establishing, maintaining, and operating voluntary education programs.

(b)(1) Education programs established under this part by each Military Service will:

(i) Provide for the academic, technical, intellectual, personal, and professional development of Service members, thereby contributing to the readiness of the Military Services and the quality of life of Service members and their families.

(ii) Increase Service members' opportunities for advancement and leadership by reinforcing their academic skills and occupational competencies with new skills and knowledge.

(iii) Lead to a credential, such as a high school diploma, certificate, or college degree, signifying satisfactory completion of the educational program.

(iv) Include an academic skills program, which allows personnel to upgrade their reading, writing, computation, and communication abilities in support of academic skills and military occupations and careers. Academic skills programs may include English as a Second Language, mathematics and basic science.

(v) Include programs and college offerings that support findings from periodic needs assessments conducted by the appropriate DoD installation official (normally the Education Services Officer) for programs provided on the DoD installation. The DoD installation needs assessment process is used to determine such items as staffing requirements, course offerings, size of facilities, funding, or other standards for delivery of educational programs. Duplication of course offerings on a DoD installation should be avoided. However, the availability of similar courses through correspondence or electronic delivery will not be considered duplication.

(vi) Be described in a publication or on-line source that includes on-installation educational programs, programs available at nearby DoD installations, and colleges and universities nearby the DoD installation.

(2) Each Military Service, in cooperation with community educational service providers, will provide support essential to operating effective education programs. This support includes:

(i) Adequate funds for program implementation, administration, and TA.

(ii) Adequately trained staff to determine program needs, counsel students, provide testing services, and procure educational programs and services. Education counseling will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) individuals.

(iii) Adequate and appropriate classroom, laboratory, and office facilities and equipment, including computers to support local needs.

(iv) Access to telecommunications networks, computers, and physical or online libraries at times convenient to active duty personnel.

(3) In operating its programs, each Military Service will:

(i) Provide to newly assigned personnel, as part of their orientation to each new DoD installation or unit of assignment for RC personnel, information about voluntary education programs available at that DoD installation, unit, or State for RC personnel.

(ii) Maintain participants' educational records showing education accomplishments and educational goals.

(iii) Provide for the continuing professional development of their education services staff, including the participation of field staff in professional, as well as Service-sponsored, conferences, symposiums, and workshops.

(iv) Provide educational services, including TA counseling, academic advice and testing to their personnel and to personnel of other Services (including the U.S. Coast Guard when operating as a service in the Navy) who are assigned for duty at DoD installations of the host Service. These educational services will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) individuals in sufficient numbers to operate voluntary education programs as determined by individual Service standards. Outcomes from these educational services will include:

(A) A prior learning assessment that includes a review of all education transcripts to include the JST, the CCAF transcript, and academic transcript recommendations for ACE recommended credit.

(B) An assessment of the Service members' readiness to accomplish the degree requirements as outlined in the evaluated educational plan and a discussion of academic skills development programs.

(C) Discussion and review of technical credentials that can be obtained concurrent to academic pursuits.

(D) Discussion of credit-by-examination options.

(E) Review of academic program options, leading to a degree plan.
