
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.ebenefits.va.gov.

(F) Discussion with prospective military students on payment options and the use of education benefits for postsecondary courses to include the DoD TA Program, VA education benefit programs, State and federal grants and loans, commercial lending, and out-of-pocket costs for the Service member. Discussion will include streamlined tools and information to compare educational institutions using key measures of affordability and value through the VA eBenefits portal atThe eBenefits portal is updated by VA to facilitate access to school performance information and key federal financial aid documents.

(v) Continually assess the state of its voluntary education programs and periodically conduct a formal needs assessment by the appropriate DoD installation official (normally the Education Services Officer) to ensure that the best possible programs are available to their members at each DoD installation or in their State or area command for RC personnel. It is essential that a formal needs assessment be conducted if there is a significant change in the demographic profile of the DoD installation population.

(4) Eligible adult family members of Service members, DoD civilian employees and their eligible adult family members, and military retirees may participate in installation postsecondary education programs on a space-available basis at no cost to the individual Service TA programs.

(5) At locations where an educational program that is offered on a DoD installation is not otherwise conveniently available outside the DoD installation, civilians who are not directly employed by the DoD or other Federal agencies, and who are not eligible adult family members of DoD personnel, may be allowed to participate in DoD installation educational programs. While such participation contributes to positive community relations, participation must be on a student-funded, space-available basis at no cost to the individual Service TA programs, after the registration of Service members, DoD civilian employees, eligible adult family members, and military retirees. Additionally, a review of these potential participants by the relevant DoD installation ethics counselor may be required as part of the installation commander's access requirements. Participation may also be subject to the terms of status-of-forces or other regulating agreements.

(6) Education centers will maintain liaison with appropriate State planning and approving agencies and coordinating councils to ensure that planning agencies for continuing, adult, or postsecondary education are aware of the educational needs of military personnel located within their jurisdiction.

(7) In supporting a high school completion program, each Military Service will:

(i) Ensure that all Service members with less than a high school education have the opportunity to attain a high school diploma or its equivalent.

(ii) Ensure that neither a Military Service nor DANTES issues a certificate or similar document to Service members based on performance on high school equivalency tests. Military Services will recognize attainment of high school completion or equivalency only after a State- or territory-approved agency has awarded the appropriate credential.

(iii) Pay 100 percent of the cost of high school equivalency instruction or proficiency testing and credentialing for Service members.

(iv) Ensure that Service sponsored high school diploma programs are delivered by institutions that are State-funded or a Service component program accredited by a regional accrediting body or recognized by a State's secondary school authority.
