
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/132219p.pdf;

(i) Adhere to federal law, DoD Instruction 1344.07, DoD Instruction 1322.19, "Voluntary Education Programs in Overseas Areas" (available atand the cognizant Military Service's policies and regulations.

(ii) Comply with applicable DoD installation policies and procedures designated by the installation commander on such matters as fire and safety, environment, physical security, personnel background checks, vehicle inspection and registration, and any other applicable statues or regulations designated by the installation commander.

(5) Monitor educational institutions and its agents granted access to a DoD installation to ensure they do not:

(i) Use unfair, deceptive, abusive or fraudulent devices, schemes, or artifices, including misleading advertising or sales literature.

(ii) Engage in unfair, deceptive, or abusive marketing tactics, such as during unit briefings or assemblies; engaging in open recruiting efforts; or distributing marketing materials on the DoD installation at unapproved locations or events.

(iii) Market to or recruit newly assigned military personnel to the DoD installation, unless the Service member has received information about voluntary education programs and educational services available at that DoD installation, to include TA, from their education services staff or as part of their orientation to the new DoD installation.

(6) Ensure educational institutions granted access to DoD installations to provide programs, services, or education guidance to their students meet these criteria:

(i) Have a signed Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with DoD.

(ii) Are in compliance with State authorization requirements consistent with regulations issued by ED including 34 CFR 600.9. Educational institutions must meet the requirements of the state where services will be rendered to include compliance with all state laws as they relate to distance education.

(iii) Are State approved for the use of veterans' education benefits. Copies of the certification will be filed with the appropriate State approving agency for the military or veteran student.

(iv) Are certified to participate in federal student aid programs through the ED under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965. Title IV certification may be provisional so long as the educational institution maintains eligibility to participate in the Federal Direct Loan Program.

(v) Are accredited by a national or regional accrediting body recognized by the ED and conduct programs only from among those offered or authorized by the main administrative and academic office in accordance with standard procedures for authorization of degree programs by the educational institution.

(7) DoD installations seeking an educational institution to provide on-installation education programs, through the responsible education advisor, must:

(i) Communicate the educational needs of the DoD installation to a wide variety of potential providers.

(ii) Seek favorable tuition rates, student services, and instructional support from providers.

(iii) Provide to interested providers:

(A) The level of services and instruction desired, and specific degree programs being sought.

(B) A demographic profile of the DoD installation population and probable volume of participation in the program.

(C) Facilities and level of security at no charge to the educational institution.

(D) Cost associated with equipment and supporting services provided at the discretion of the DoD installation.

(E) A copy of this part.

(F) Special requirements, such as:
