
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.soc.aascu.org/socconsortium/PublicationsSOC.html

(iii) The educational institution granting undergraduate academic credit must adhere to the Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC) Principles and Criteria (available at) regarding the transferability of credit, the awarding of credit for military training and experience, and residency requirements.

(iv) The provider is prepared to:

(A) Offer academic counseling and flexibility in accommodating special military schedules.

(B) Ensure main administrative and academic office approval in faculty selection, assignment, and orientation; and participation in monitoring and evaluation of programs. Adjunct or part-time faculty will possess comparable qualifications as full-time permanent faculty members.

(C) Conduct on-installation or online courses that carry identical credit values, represent the same content and experience, and use the same student evaluation procedures as courses offered through the main administrative and academic campus. All substantive course change requirements must follow the schools accreditation agencies requirements. If the educational institution's accrediting agency's substantive change policy requires new courses or program offerings to be submitted to the agency for approval, the educational institution will be required to submit such items for approval before admitting Service members using military TA.

(D) Maintain the same admission and graduation standards that exist for the same programs at the main administrative and academic office, and include credits from courses taken at a branch or auxiliary campus of the same educational institution in establishing academic residency to meet degree requirements.

(E) Provide library and other reference and research resources, in either print or electronic format, that are appropriate and necessary to support course offerings.

(F) Establish procedures to maintain regular communication among central institutional academic leadership and administrators, and off-campus representatives and faculty. Any educational institution's proposal must specify these procedures.

(G) Provide students with regular and accessible academic and financial counseling services either electronically or in-person. At a minimum, this includes Title IV and VA education benefits.

(H) Charge tuition that is not more than tuition charged to nonmilitary students.

(I) Have established policies for awarding credit for military training by examinations, experiential learning, and courses completed using modes of delivery other than instructor-delivered, on-site classroom instruction.

(J) Conduct programs only from among those offered or authorized by the main administrative and academic office in accordance with standard procedures for authorization of degree programs by the educational institution.
