
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### Requirements and procedures for educational institutions seeking access to the DoD installation solely to provide academic counseling or student support services to students.

(d)(1) Educational institutions must meet the criteria in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.

(2) Educational institutions must request access through the responsible education advisor via a written proposal. If a request is received from an educational institution seeking access to a joint DoD installation, the responsible education advisor from the education center will determine the appropriate Military Service to work the request. The request should include as a minimum:

(i) Educational institution name and intent or purpose of the visit.

(ii) Number and names of educational institution representatives that will be available.

(iii) Counseling delivery method: By appointment or walk-in.

(iv) Communication process used to inform students of their availability for counseling.

(3) The responsible education advisor will review and analyze the request on behalf of the installation commander. The installation commander has the final authority to approve, deny, suspend, or withdraw DoD installation access permission from an educational institution, as deemed appropriate.

(4) If a request is received from an educational institution seeking access to a DoD installation, the responsible education advisor will:

(i) Fully consider requests from those educational institutions complying with requirements as stated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section and be consistent in treatment of educational institutions in accordance with this part. Also, consider the value to the Service member as it relates to geographic location, accessibility and mission tempo.

(ii) If request is denied, provide a timely response to the educational institution and inform the educational institution they may reapply for access once reasons for denial are addressed.

(iii) Maintain copies of all correspondence in accordance with the DoD installation records management schedule and disposition, with a minimum time requirement of 2 years.

(5) If a DoD installation grants access to an educational institution to provide guidance to their students, the educational institution and its agents will:

(i) Only advise or counsel students at the education center or at a location approved by the responsible education advisor.

(ii) Maintain a record of students counseled and provide a copy to the education office. The record will annotate the type of program and the status of the Service member (current or reenrollment).

(iii) Comply with applicable DoD installation policies and procedures designated by the installation commander on such matters as fire and safety, environment, physical security, personnel background checks, vehicle inspection and registration, and any other applicable statues or regulations designated by the installation commander.
