
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### DANTES.

(f)(1) Guidance and recommendations for DANTES will be developed with the advice of the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.

(2) The selection and rating of the Director, DANTES will be as follows:

(i) The DASD(MCFP) will convene and chair the search committee responsible for replacing the Director, DANTES, when the position is vacated. At the request of the USD(P&R), the Secretaries of the Military Departments will provide a senior manager to sit on the search committee. The committee will recommend the best qualified candidate to the DoD EA for DANTES, for possible appointment as the Director, DANTES.

(ii) The DoD EA for DANTES will designate the rater of the Director, DANTES. The Director, State Liaison and Educational Opportunity within the Office of the USD(P&R), MCFP, will provide input to the DoD EA designated rater concerning the performance of the Director, DANTES.

(3) DANTES will:

(i) Support the Service voluntary education programs by executing the program outlined in this part and the annual USD(P&R) supplemental guidance for those items not reflected in this paragraph of this section.

(ii) Provide execution information to the Interservice Voluntary Education Board quarterly and provide information required to assist with the program objective memorandum development as requested by the Board.

(iii) Support DoD off-duty, voluntary education programs and conduct special projects and developmental activities in support of education-related DoD functions.

(iv) Assist the Military Services in providing high-quality and valuable educational opportunities for Service members, their eligible adult family members, and DoD personnel, and assist personnel in achieving professional and personal educational objectives. This role includes the consolidated management of programs that prevent duplication of effort among the Services. Through its activities, DANTES supports DoD recruitment, retention, and the transition efforts.

(v) Assume responsibilities and functions that include:

(A) Managing and facilitating the delivery of a wide variety of examinations including the General Equivalency Diploma test, college admissions, and credit-by-examination programs.

(B) Upon request, issuing transcripts for the United States Armed Forces Institute and the examination and certification programs.

(C) Managing the contract through which former DoD Dependents Schools students can obtain copies of archived transcripts.

(D) Managing the contract and functions related to the evaluation of educational experiences in the Military Services that are covered by the contract.

(E) Providing or developing and distributing educational materials, reference books, counseling publications, educational software, and key educational resource information to Defense Agencies and DoD installations.

(F) Managing the SOC program contract and related functions.

(G) Managing the DoD contract that provides for periodic third-party reviews of DoD voluntary education programs titled the Third Party Education Assessment.
