
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### ยง 68.6 Procedures.
####### https://afaems.langley.af.mil/vemis.

(H) Managing the contract and data received on the voluntary education programs for the VEMIS, which includes gathering, collating, and verifying participation and cost data from the Services. Providing requisite consolidated reports to USD(P&R). Requested data from the Military Services on voluntary education programs is located and stored atA user guide containing voluntary education program data and report information for the Military Services and DANTES is also available at this Web site, under the "Resources" tab.

(I) Managing the DoD independent study catalog and its support systems, as required.

(J) Negotiating, administering, and coordinating contracts for DoD Worldwide Education Symposiums in support of and in conjunction with the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.

(K) Establishing, refining, updating, and maintaining information on worldwide education support of DoD off-duty, voluntary education programs on the Internet. Maintaining necessary infrastructure to ensure that information on the Internet is always current and available to leadership, agency personnel, the public, and others.

(L) Administering the TTT program in accordance with section 1154 of chapter 58 of 10 U.S.C.

(M) Monitoring new technological developments, providing reports, cost analyses, and recommendations on educational innovations, and conducting special projects requested by the Department of Defense and the Services, approved by the Interservice Voluntary Education Board, and as reflected and approved in DANTES' annual policy guidance.

(N) Conducting staff development training on DANTES' policies, procedures, and practices related to voluntary education testing programs, and providing additional training as requested by the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Services.

(O) Serving as the Defense Media Activity's point of contact for information on DANTES programs for military personnel.

(P) Providing support, as requested, to DoD and Service Quality of Life and Transition support programs.

(Q) Providing other support in mission areas as directed by the USD(P&R) and the DASD(MCFP).

(R) Managing DoD contingency Tri-Service contracts, which provide educational opportunities for deployed Service members with guidance and oversight from the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.

(S) Monitoring and maintaining liaison with the office responsible for consolidating and distributing the JST for the Services.

(vi) Maintain liaison with education services officials of the Military Services, and appropriate Federal and State agencies and educational associations, in matters related to the DANTES mission and assigned functions.

(vii) Serve on panels and working groups designated by the DASD(MCFP).

(viii) Serve as the Executive Secretary at the Interservice Voluntary Education Board meeting convened annually to review DANTES programs and to develop recommendations for inclusion in annual policy guidance for DANTES. In this role, the Director, DANTES, will coordinate the meeting, prepare the agenda, review and analyze DANTES programs and initiatives outlined in the prior year's operational plan, and provide minutes after the meeting.

(ix) Assist the Services in screening candidates for the DANTES Senior Enlisted Advisor and DANTES RC Advisor positions.

(x) Maintain the repository for the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU between USD(P&R) and partner educational institutions, to include Service-specific addendums (see the Appendix to this section for the template of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU). DANTES will:

(A) Administer and update the system that is the repository of the MOUs per guidance from USD(P&R).

(B) Create, track, and maintain a centrally managed database for all signed documents.

(C) Publish an Internet-based list of all educational institutions that have a signed DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU.
