
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart C - Competition
####### ยง 22.315 Merit-based, competitive procedures.
######## http://www.Grants.gov

(3) To comply with an OMB policy directive entitled, "Requirement to Post Funding Opportunity Announcement Synopses at Grants.gov and Related Data Elements/Format,"DoD Components must post on the Internet a synopsis for each notice that, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, is posted on the Internet. The synopsis must be posted at the Governmentwide site designated by the OMB (currently). The synopsis for each notice must provide complete instructions on where to obtain the notice and should have an electronic link to the Internet location at which the notice is posted.

(4) In accordance with an OMB policy directive entitled, "Requirement for a DUNS Number in Applications for Federal Grants and Cooperative Agreements,"each notice must include a requirement for proposers to include Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) numbers in their proposals. If a notice provides for submission of application forms, the forms must incorporate the DUNS number. To the extent that unincorporated consortia of separate organizations may submit proposals, the notice should explain that an unincorporated consortium would use the DUNS number of the entity proposed to receive DoD payments under the award (usually, a lead organization that consortium members identify for administrative matters).

(b) At least two eligible, prospective proposers.

(c) Impartial review of the merits of applications or proposals received in response to the notice, using the evaluation method and selection criteria described in the notice. For research and development awards, in order to be considered as part of a competitive procedure, the two principal selection criteria, unless statute provides otherwise, must be the:

(1) Technical merits of the proposed research and development; and

(2) Potential relationship of the proposed research and development to Department of Defense missions.
