
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### Appendix A to Part 68 - DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Between DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) and [Name of Educational Institution]
####### 2.

Cannot conflict with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU and governing regulations.

(2) Educational institutions must comply with this MOU and the requirements in Service-specific addendums that do not conflict with governing Federal law and rules, guidelines, and regulations, which include, but are not limited to, Title 10 of the U.S. Code; DoD Directive 1322.08E, "Voluntary Education Programs for Military Personnel"; DoD Instruction 1322.25, "Voluntary Education Programs"; DoD Instruction 1322.19, "Voluntary Education Programs in Overseas Areas"; and all DoD installation requirements imposed by the installation commander, if the educational institution has been approved to operate on a particular base. Educational institutions failing to comply with the requirements set forth in this MOU may receive a letter of warning, be denied the opportunity to establish new programs, have their MOU terminated, be removed from the DoD installation, and may have the approval of the issuance of TA withdrawn by the Service concerned.

b. Be accredited by a national or regional accrediting agency recognized by ED, approved for VA funding, and certified to participate in Federal student aid programs through ED under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.

c. Comply with the regulatory guidance provided by DoD and the Services.

d. Comply with state authorization requirements consistent with regulations issued by ED, including 34 CFR 600.9. Educational institutions must meet all State laws as they relate to distance education as required.

e. Participate in the Third Party Education Assessment process when requested. This requirement applies not only to educational institutions providing courses on DoD installations, but also to those educational institutions that provide postsecondary instruction located off the DoD installation or via DL. Educational institutions may be selected for Third Party Education Assessment based on provider offerings (on-installation, off-installation, or DL), education benefits received (large provider in terms of enrollments or TA funds), or an observed promising practice. Educational institutions may also be selected as a result of reports of non-compliance with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU, complaint(s) received, or negative information received from other government agencies and regulators. Educational institutions demonstrating an unwillingness to resolve findings may receive a range of penalties from a written warning to revocation of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU and removal from participation in the DoD TA Program. As appropriate, Third Party Education Assessment findings will be shared with other government agencies/regulators including but not limited to CFPB, VA, ED, DOJ, and FTC.

(1) If an educational institution is operating on the DoD installation, the educational institution will resolve the assessment report findings and provide corrective actions taken within 6 months of the Third Party Education Assessment to the responsible education advisor on the DoD installation, the appropriate Service Voluntary Education Chief, and the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.

(2) If an educational institution is operating off the DoD installation or via DL, the educational institution will resolve the assessment report findings and provide corrective actions taken within 6 months of the Third Party Education Assessment to the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.

(3) In instances when the resolution action cannot be completed within the 6 month timeframe, the educational institution will submit a status report every 3 months to the responsible education advisor on the DoD installation if the educational institution is operating on the DoD installation, and the DoD Voluntary Education Chief, until the recommendation is resolved.

f. Before enrolling a Service member, provide each prospective military student with specific information to locate, explain, and properly use the following ED and CFPB tools:
