
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 68 - VOLUNTARY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
###### Appendix A to Part 68 - DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Between DoD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) and [Name of Educational Institution]
####### Administration of Tuition.

f.

(1) The Services will provide TA in accordance with DoD- and Service-appropriate regulations.

(2) Educational institutions will comply with these requirements for the return of TA funds:

(a) Return any TA Program funds directly to the Military Service, not to the Service member.

(b) Up to the start date, return all (100 percent) TA funds to the appropriate Military Service when the Service member does not:

(i) begin attendance at the institution or

(ii) start a course, regardless of whether the student starts other courses

(c) Return any TA funds paid for a course that is cancelled by the educational institution.

(d) Have an institutional policy that returns any unearned TA funds on a proportional basis through at least the 60 percent portion of the period for which the funds were provided. TA funds are earned proportionally during an enrollment period, with unearned funds returned based upon when a student stops attending. In instances when a Service member stops attending due to a military service obligation, the educational institution will work with the affected Service member to identify solutions that will not result in a student debt for the returned portion.

(3) Tuition charged to a Service member will in no case exceed the rate charged to nonmilitary students, unless agreed upon in writing by both the educational institution and the Service.

(4) Educational institutions will provide their tuition charges for each degree program to the Services on an annual basis. Any changes in the tuition charges will be provided to and explained to all the Services, as soon as possible, but not fewer than 90 days prior to implementation.

(a) Tuition charges at many public institutions are established by entities over which they have no jurisdiction, such as State legislatures and boards. As such, in some instances tuition decisions will not be made within the 90-day requirement window.

(b) When this happens, the educational institution will request a waiver (via the DoD MOU Web page) and provide the Services with the new tuition charges. To the extent practicable by State law or regulation, Service members already enrolled will not be impacted by changes in tuition charges.

(5) TA invoicing information is located in the Service-specific addendums attached to this MOU.
