
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 69 - SCHOOL BOARDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DOMESTIC DEPENDENT ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS
###### ยง 69.6 Procedures.
####### Composition of school board.

(a)(1) The school board shall recommend to the Director, DoD DDESS, the number of elected school board voting members, which shall be not fewer than 3 and no more than 9, depending upon local needs. The members of the school board shall select by majority vote of the total number of school board members authorized at the beginning of each official school board term, one member to act as President and another to act as Vice President. The President and Vice President shall each serve for 1 year. The President shall preside over school board meetings and provide leadership for related activities and functions. The Vice President shall serve in the absence of the President. If the position of President is vacated for any reason, the Vice President shall be the President until the next regularly scheduled school board election. The resulting vacancy in the position of the Vice President shall be filled by the majority vote of all members of the incumbent board.

(2) The DoD DDESS Arrangement Superintendent, or designee, shall serve as a non-voting observer to all school board meetings. The Installation Commander, or designee, shall convey command concerns to the school board and the Superintendent and keep the school board and the Superintendent informed of changes and other matters within the host installation that affect school expenditures or operations.

(3) School board members may not receive compensation for their service on the school board.

(4) Members of the school board may not have any financial interest in any company or organization doing business with the school system. Waivers to this restriction may be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director, DoD DDESS, in coordination with the Office of General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
