
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart D - Recipient Qualification Matters - General Policies and Procedures
####### ยง 22.420 Pre-award procedures.
######## www.sam.gov

(1) Is not identified in the Exclusions area of the System for Award Management (SAM Exclusions) as being debarred, suspended, or otherwise ineligible to receive the award (SAM is at). In addition to being a requirement for every new award, note that checking SAM Exclusions also is a requirement for subsequent obligations of additional funds, such as incremental funding actions, in the case of pre-existing awards to institutions of higher education, as described at ยง 22.520(e)(5). The grants officer's responsibilities include (see the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.425 and 180.430, as implemented by the Department of Defense at 2 CFR 1125.425) checking SAM Exclusions for:

(i) Potential recipients of prime awards; and

(ii) A recipient's principals (as defined in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.995, implemented by the Department of Defense in 2 CFR part 1125), potential recipients of subawards, and principals of those potential subaward recipients, if DoD Component approval of those principals or lower-tier recipients is required under the terms of the award.

(2) Has provided all certifications and assurances required by Federal statute, Executive order, or codified regulation, unless they are to be addressed in award terms and conditions at the time of award (see ยง 22.510).

(3) Meets any eligibility criteria that may be specified in the statute authorizing the specific program under which the award is being made (see ยง 22.210(a)(2)).

(d) Grants officers shall obtain each recipient's Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN, which may be the Social Security Number for an individual and Employer Identification Number for a business or non-profit entity) and notify the recipient that the TIN is being obtained for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amounts that may arise out of the recipient's relationship with the Government. Obtaining the TIN and so notifying the recipient is a statutory requirement of 31 U.S.C. 7701, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (section 31001(i)(1), Pub. L. 104-134).
