
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 70 - DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD (DRB) PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
###### ยง 70.8 Discharge review procedures.
####### Relationship of an issue to propriety or equity.

(iii)(A) If an applicant identifies an issue as pertaining to both propriety and equity, the DRB will consider it under both standards.

(B) If an applicant identifies an issue as pertaining to the propriety of the discharge (for example, by citing a propriety standard or otherwise claiming that a change in discharge is required as a matter of law), the DRB shall consider the issue solely as a matter of propriety. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(D) of this section, the DRB is not required to consider such an issue under the equity standards.

(C) If the applicant's issue contends that the DRB is required as a matter of law to follow a prior decision by setting forth an issue of propriety from the prior decision and describing its relationship to the applicant's case, the issue shall be considered under the propriety standards and addressed under paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section.

(D) If the applicant's issue sets forth principles of equity contained in a prior DRB decision, describes the relationship to the applicant's case, and contends that the DRB is required as a matter of law to follow the prior case, the decisional document shall note that the DRB is not bound by its discretionary decisions in prior cases under the standards in ยง 70.9. However, the principles cited by the applicant, and the description of the relationship of the principles to the applicant's case, shall be considered under the equity standards and addressed under paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of this section.

(E) If the applicant's issue cannot be identified as a matter of propriety or equity, the DRB shall address it as an issue of equity.
