
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 70 - DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD (DRB) PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
###### ยง 70.8 Discharge review procedures.
####### The decisional document.

(h)A decisional document shall be prepared for each review. At a minimum, this document shall contain:

(1) The circumstances and character of the applicant's service as extracted from available service records, including health records, and information provided by other Government authorities or the applicant, such as, but not limited to:

(i) Information concerning the discharge at issue in the review, including:

(A) Date (YYMMDD) of discharge.

(B) Character of discharge.

(C) Reason for discharge.

(D) The specific regulatory authority under which the discharge was issued.

(ii) Date (YYMMDD) of enlistment.

(iii) Period of enlistment.

(iv) Age at enlistment.

(v) Length of service.

(vi) Periods of unauthorized absence.

(vii) Conduct and efficiency ratings (numerical or narrative).

(viii) Highest rank received.

(ix) Awards and decorations.

(x) Educational level.

(xi) Aptitude test scores.

(xii) Incidents of punishment pursuant to Article 15, Uniform Code of Military Justice (including nature and date (YYMMDD) of offense or punishment).

(xiii) Convictions by court-martial.

(xiv) Prior military service and type of discharge received.

(2) A list of the type of documents submitted by or on behalf of the applicant (including a written brief, letters of recommendation, affidavits concerning the circumstances of the discharge, or other documentary evidence), if any.

(3) A statement whether the applicant testified, and a list of the type of witnesses, if any, who testified on behalf of the applicant.

(4) A notation whether the application pertained to the character of discharge, the reason for discharge, or both.

(5) The DRB's conclusions on the following:

(i) Whether the character of or reason for discharge should be changed.

(ii) The specific changes to be made, if any.

(6) A list of the items submitted as issues on DD Form 293 or expressly incorporated therein and such other items submitted as issues by the applicant that are identified as inadvertently omitted under paragraph (a)(4)(i)(D) of this section. If the issues are listed verbatim on DD Form 293, a copy of the relevant portion of the Form may be attached. Issues that have been withdrawn or modified with the consent of the applicant need not be listed.

(7) The response to the items submitted as issues by the applicant under the guidance in paragraph (d) of this section.

(8) A list of decisional issues and a discussion of such issues under the guidance in paragraph (e) of this section.

(9) Minority views, if any, when authorized under rules of the Military Department concerned.

(10) The recommendation of the DRB president when required by paragraph (f) of this section.

(11) The addendum of the SRA when required by paragraph (g) of this section.

(12) Advisory opinions, including those containing factual information, when such opinions have been relied upon for final decision or have been accepted as a basis for rejecting any of the applicant's issues. Such advisory opinions or relevant portions thereof that are not fully set forth in the discussion of decisional issues or otherwise in response to items submitted as issues by the application shall be incorporated by reference. A copy of opinions incorporated by reference shall be appended to the decision and included in the record of proceedings.

(13) A record of the voting, including:

(i) The number of votes for the DRB's decision and the number of votes in the minority, if any.

(ii) The DRB member's names (last name, first name, M.I.) and votes. The copy provided to the applicant may substitute a statement that the names and votes will be made available to the applicant at the applicant's request.

(14) Index entries for each decisional issue under appropriate categories listed in the index of decisions.

(15) An authentication of the document by an appropriate official.
