
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 70 - DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD (DRB) PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
###### ยง 70.10 Complaints concerning decisional documents and index entries.
####### General.

(a)(1) The procedures in this section-are established for the sole purpose of ensuring that decisional documents and index entries issued by the DRBs of the Military Departments comply with the decisional document and index entry principles of this part.

(2) This section may be modified or supplemented by the DASD(MP&FM).

(3) The following persons may submit complaints:

(i) A former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) with respect to the decisional document issued in the former member's own case; and

(ii) A former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) who states that correction of the decisional document will assist the former member in preparing for an administrative or judicial proceeding in which the former member's own discharge will be at issue.

(4) The Department of Defense is committed to processing of complaints within the priorities and processing goals set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. This commitment, however, is conditioned upon reasonable use of the complaint process under the following considerations. The DRBs were established for the benefit of former members of the Armed Forces. The complaint process can aid such persons most effectively if it is used by former members of the Armed Forces when necessary to obtain correction of their own decisional documents or to prepare for discharge reviews. If a substantial number of complaints submitted by others interferes with the ability of the DRBs to process applications for discharge review in a timely fashion, the Department of Defense will adjust the processing goals to ensure that the system operates to the primary advantage of applicants.

(5) The DASD(MP&FM) is the final authority with respect to action on such correspondence.
