
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart E - National Policy Matters
####### ยง 22.520 Campus access for military recruiting and Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC).
######## Grants officers' responsibility.

(e)(1) A grants officer shall not award any grant or cooperative agreement to an institution of higher education that has been identified pursuant to the procedures of 32 CFR part 216. Such institutions are identified as being ineligible in the Exclusions area of the System for Award Management (SAM Exclusions). The exclusion types in SAM Exclusions broadly indicate the nature of an institution's ineligibility, as well as the effect of the exclusion, and the Additional Comments field may have further details about the exclusion. Note that OMB guidance in 2 CFR 180.425 and 180.430, as implemented by the Department of Defense at 2 CFR part 1125, require a grants officer to check the SAM Exclusions prior to determining that a recipient is qualified to receive an award.

(2) A grants officer shall not consent to a subaward of DoD funds to such an institution, under a grant or cooperative agreement to any recipient, if the subaward requires the grants officer's consent.

(3) A grants officer shall include the following award term in each grant or cooperative agreement with an institution of higher education (note that this requirement does not flow down and that recipients are not required to include the award term in subawards):

(4) If an institution of higher education refuses to accept the award term in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the grants officer shall:

(i) Determine that the institution is not qualified with respect to the award. The grants officer may award to an alternative recipient.

(ii) Transmit the name of the institution, through appropriate channels, to the Director for Accession Policy, Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy (ODUSD(MPP)), 4000 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-4000. This will allow ODUSD(MPP) to decide whether to initiate an evaluation of the institution under 32 CFR part 216, to determine whether it is an institution that has a policy or practice described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) With respect to any pre-existing award to an institution of higher education that currently is listed in SAM Exclusions pursuant to a determination under 32 CFR part 216, a grants officer:

(i) Shall not obligate additional funds available to the DoD for the award. A grants officer therefore must check SAM Exclusions before approving an incremental funding action or other additional funding for any pre-existing award to an institution of higher education. The grants officer may not obligate the additional funds if the cause and treatment code indicates that the reason for an institution's SAM Exclusions listing is a determination under 32 CFR part 216 that institutional policies or practices restrict campus access of military recruiters or ROTC.

(ii) Shall not approve any request for payment submitted by such an institution (including payments for costs already incurred).

(iii) Shall:

(A) Terminate the award unless he or she has a reason to believe, after consulting with the ODUSD(MPP), 4000 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-4000), that the institution may be removed from SAM Exclusions in the near term and have its eligibility restored; and

(B) Suspend any award that is not immediately terminated, as well as all payments under it.
