
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 70 - DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD (DRB) PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
###### ยง 70.10 Complaints concerning decisional documents and index entries.
####### 3,4,3,4

(C) For all decisional documents issued before November 27, 1982, failure to respond to an issue raised by an applicant constitutes error unless it reasonably may be inferred from the record that the DRB response relied on one of the exceptions listed in ยง 70.8(d)(3)(ii); (e)(3)(ii)(C) () through () and (e)(6)(ii)(C) () through (). If the decisional document supports a basis for not addressing an issue raised by the applicant (for example, if it is apparent that resolving the issue in the applicant's favor would not warrant an upgrade), there is no requirement in the Stipulation of Dismissal that the decisional document explain why the DRB did not address the issue. With respect to decisional documents issued on or after November 27, 1982, a response shall be prepared in accordance with the decisional document principles set forth in ยง 70.8.

(D) When a case is reviewed upon request of an applicant, and the DRB upgrades the discharge to "General," the DRB must provide reasons why it did not upgrade to "Honorable" unless the applicant expressly requests lesser relief. This requirement applies to all requests for corrective action submitted by an applicant with respect to his or her decisional document. In all other cases, this requirement applies to decisional documents issued on or after November 9, 1978. When the DRB upgrades to General, its explanation for not upgrading to Honorable may consist of reference to adverse matter from the applicant's military record. When a discharge is upgraded to General in a review on the DRB's own motion, there is no requirement to explain why the discharge was not upgraded to Honorable.

(E) There is no requirement under the Stipulation of Dismissal to provide reasons for uncontested findings. The foregoing applies to decisional documents issued before November 27, 1982. With respect to decisional documents issued on or after that date, the following guidance applies with respect to an uncontested issue of fact that forms the basis for a grant or denial of a change in discharge: the decisional document shall list the specific source of information relied upon in reaching the conclusion, except when the information is listed in the portion of the decisional document that summarizes the service record.
