
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 70 - DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD (DRB) PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
###### ยง 70.10 Complaints concerning decisional documents and index entries.
####### 1,2

(A) The first priority category consists of cases in which () there is a pending discharge review and the complainant is the applicant; and () the complainant sets forth the relevance of the complaint to the complainant's pending discharge review application.

(B) The second priority category consists of requests for correction of the decisional document in the complainant's own discharge review case.

(C) The third priority category consists of complaints submitted by former members of the Armed Forces (or their counsel) who state that the complaint is submitted to assist the former member's submission of an application for review.

(D) The fourth priority category consists of other complaints in which the complainant demonstrates that correction of the decisional document will substantially enhance the ability of applicants to present a significant issue to the DRBs.

(E) The fifth priority category consists of all other cases.

(ii) Complainants who request consideration in a priority category shall set forth in the complaint the facts that give rise to the claim of placement in the requested category. If the complaint is relevant to a pending discharge review in which the complainant is applicant or counsel, the scheduled date of the review should be specified.

(iii) The administrative director is responsible for monitoring compliance with the following processing goals:

(A) The administrative director normally shall forward correspondence to the Military Department concerned within 3 days after the date of receipt specified in the docket number. Correspondence forwarded directly to the DASD(MP&FM) under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, normally shall be transmitted within 7 days after the date of receipt.

(B) The Military Department normally shall request the necessary records within 5 working days after the date of receipt from the administrative director. The Military Department normally shall complete action under paragraph (d)(4) of this section within 45 days after receipt of all necessary records. If action by the Military Department is required under paragraph (d)(9) of this section, normally it shall be completed within 45 days after action is taken by the DASD(MP&FM).

(C) The JSRA normally shall complete action under paragraph (d)(7) of this section at the first monthly meeting held during any period commencing 10 days after the administrative director receives the action of the Military Department under paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(D) The DASD(MP&FM) normally shall complete action under paragraph (d)(8) of this section within 30 days after action is taken by the JSRA under paragraph (d)(7) of this section or by the administrative director under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.

(E) If action is not completed within the overall processing goals specified in this paragraph, the complainant shall be notified of the reason for the delay by the administrative director and shall be provided with an approximate date for completion of the action.

(iv) If the complaints are submitted in any 30 day period with respect to more than 50 decisional documents, the administrative director shall adjust the processing goals in light of the number of complaints and discharge review applications pending before the DRBs.

(v) At the end of each month, the administrative director shall send each Military Department a list of complaints, if any, in which action has not been completed within 60 days of the docket date. The Military Department shall inform the administrative director of the status of each case.
