
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 70 - DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD (DRB) PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
###### ยง 70.10 Complaints concerning decisional documents and index entries.
####### Amended decisional documents.

(vi)One that reflects a determination by a DRB panel (or the SRA) as to what the DRB panel (or SRA) that prepared the defective decisional document would have entered on the decisional document to support its decision in this case.

(A) The action of the amending authority does not necessarily reflect substantive agreement with the decision of the original DRB panel (or SRA) on the merits of the case.

(B) A corrected decisional document created by amending a decisional document in response to a complaint will be based upon the complete record before the DRB (or the SRA) at the time of the original defective statement was issued, including, if available, a transcript, tape recording, videotape or other record of a hearing, if any. The new decisional document will be indexed under categories relevant to the new statements.

(C) When an amended decisional document is required under paragraphs (d)(4)(v)(A) and (d)(4)(v)(D) of this section and the necessary records cannot be located, a notation to that effect will be made on the decisional document, and the applicant and counsel, if any, will be afforded an opportunity for a new review, and the complainant will be informed of the action.

(D) When an amended decisional document is requested under paragraph (d)(4)(v)(C) and the necessary records cannot be located, a notation to that effect will be made on the decisional document, and the complainant will be informed that the situation precludes further action.
