
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart F - Award
####### ยง 22.605 Grants officers' responsibilities.

At the time of award, the grants officer is responsible for ensuring that:

(a) The award:

(1) Conforms to the award format specified in 2 CFR part 1120.

(2) Includes appropriate general terms and conditions and any program-specific and award-specific terms and conditions needed to specify applicable administrative, national policy, and programmatic requirements. These requirements include:

(i) Federal statutes or Executive orders that apply broadly to Federal or DoD grants and cooperative agreements; and

(ii) Any requirements specific to the program, as prescribed in the program statute (see ยง 22.210(a)(2)), or specific to the funding, as stated in pertinent Congressional appropriations (see ยง 22.515).

(b) Information about the award is reported to the Defense Assistance Award Data System (DAADS), in accordance with Subpart E of 32 CFR part 21.

(c)(1) In addition to the copy of the award document provided to the recipient, a copy is forwarded to the office designated to administer the grant or cooperative agreement, and another copy is forwarded to the finance and accounting office designated to make the payments to the recipient.

(2) For any award subject to the electronic funds transfer (EFT) requirement described in ยง 22.810(b)(2), the grants officer shall include a prominent notification of that fact on the first page of the copies forwarded to the recipient, the administrative grants officer, and the finance and accounting office. On the first page of the copy forwarded to the recipient, the grants officer also shall include a prominent notification that the recipient, to be paid, must submit a Payment Information Form (Standard Form SF-3881) to the responsible DoD payment office, if that payment office does not currently have the information (e.g., bank name and account number) needed to pay the recipient by EFT.
