
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 75 - EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM (EFMP)
###### Subpart C - Procedures
####### ยง 75.5 DoD criteria for identifying family members with special needs.
######## Special medical needs.

(a)Individuals who meet one or more of the criteria in this section will be identified as a family member with special medical needs:

(1) Potentially life-threatening conditions or chronic (duration of 6 months or longer) medical or physical conditions requiring follow-up care from a primary care manager (to include pediatricians) more than once a year or specialty care.

(2) Current and chronic (duration of 6 months or longer) mental health conditions (such as bi-polar, conduct, major affective, thought, or personality disorders); inpatient or intensive (greater than one visit monthly for more than 6 months) outpatient mental health service within the last 5 years; or intensive mental health services required at the present time. This includes medical care from any provider, including a primary care manager.

(3) A diagnosis of asthma or other respiratory-related diagnosis with chronic recurring symptoms that involves one or more of the following:

(i) Scheduled use of inhaled or oral anti-inflammatory agents or bronchodilators.

(ii) History of emergency room use or clinic visits for acute asthma exacerbations or other respiratory-related diagnosis within the last year.

(iii) History of one or more hospitalizations for asthma, or other respiratory-related diagnosis within the past 5 years.

(4) A diagnosis of attention deficit disorder or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder that involves one or more of the following:

(i) Includes a co-morbid psychological diagnosis.

(ii) Requires multiple medications, psycho-pharmaceuticals (other than stimulants) or does not respond to normal doses of medication.
