
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart G - Field Administration
####### § 22.715 Grants administration office functions.

The primary responsibility of cognizant grants administration offices shall be to advise and assist grants officers and recipients prior to and after award, and to help ensure that recipients fulfill all requirements in law, regulation, and award terms and conditions. Specific functions include:

(a) Conducting reviews and coordinating reviews, audits, and audit requests. This includes:

(1) Advising grants officers on the extent to which audits by independent auditors (i.e., public accountants or Federal auditors) have provided the information needed to carry out their responsibilities. If a recipient has had an independent audit in accordance with subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, and the audit report disclosed no material weaknesses in the recipient's financial management and other management and control systems, additional preaward or closeout audits usually will not be needed (see §§ 22.420(b) and 22.825(b)).

(2) Performing pre-award surveys, when requested by a grants officer, after providing advice described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) Reviewing recipients' systems and compliance with Federal requirements, in coordination with any reviews and compliance audits performed by independent auditors under subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, or in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. This includes:

(i) Reviewing recipients' financial management, property management, and purchasing systems, to determine the adequacy of such systems.

(ii) Determining that recipients have drug-free workplace programs, as required under 32 CFR part 26.
