
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart G - Field Administration
####### ยง 22.715 Grants administration office functions.
######## e.g.,

(iii) Determining that governmental, university and nonprofit recipients have complied with requirements in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as implemented at subpart E of 2 CFR part 1128, to have single audits and submit audit reports to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse. If a recipient has not had a required audit, appropriate action must be taken (contacting the recipient and coordinating with the Office of the Assistant Inspector General for Audit Policy and Oversight (OAIG(P&O)), Office of the Deputy Inspector General for Inspections and Policy, Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (OIG, DoD), 4800 Mark Center Drive, Alexandria, VA 22350-1500).

(4) Issuing timely management decisions, in accordance with DoD Instruction 7640.02, "Policy for Follow-up on Contract Audit Reports,"on single audit findings referred by the OIG, DoD, under DoD Instruction 7600.10, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."

(b) Performing property administration services for Government-owned property, and for any property acquired by a recipient, with respect to which the recipient has further obligations to the Government.

(c) Ensuring timely submission of required reports.

(d) Executing administrative closeout procedures.

(e) Establishing recipients' indirect cost rates, where the Department of Defense is the cognizant or oversight Federal agency with the responsibility for doing so.

(f) Performing other administration functions (e.g., receiving recipients' payment requests and transmitting approved payment authorizations to payment offices) as delegated by applicable cross-servicing agreements or letters of delegation.
