
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and Force Management (ASD(R&FM)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD (P&R) shall:

(1) Monitor compliance with this part by personnel under his or her authority, direction, and control.

(2) Annually review and issue a child care fee policy based upon total family income (TFI) for use by programs in the DoD child development system of care.

(b) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MC&FP)), under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R&FM), shall:

(1) Work across functional areas of responsibility and collaborate with other federal and non-governmental organizations to ensure access to a continuum of quality, affordable CDPs.

(2) Program, budget, and allocate funds and other resources to meet the objectives of this part.

(3) Issue DD Form 2636, "Child Development Program, Department of Defense Certificate to Operate," to the Military Departments for each CDP found to be in compliance with this part.

(4) Require that the policies and related documents are updated and relevant to the program.

(5) Report DoD Component program data to support legislative, research, and other requirements.

(c) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:

(1) Establish implementing guidance and ensure full implementation within 12 months of the publication date, consistent with this part, to monitor compliance through regular inspection of CDPs and follow-up oversight actions as needed.

(2) Program, budget, and allocate funds and other resources to meet the requirements of this part.

(3) Establish a priority system for all patrons seeking to enroll children in CDPs in accordance with paragraph (a) of ยง 79.6.

(4) Assess DoD Component demand and take appropriate action to address the child care capability needed on and off the installation in accordance with paragraph (g) of ยง 79.6.

(5) Establish a hardship waiver policy to address financial and operational situations.

(6) Submit fiscal year annual summary of operations reports to the DASD(MC&FP) by December 30 of each year using Report Control Symbol DD-P&R(A) 1884, "Department of Defense Child Development Program (CDP) Annual Summary of Operations."
