
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.5 Responsibilities.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/530505p.pdf

(13) Provide the DASD(MC&FP) through OFP/CY with a copy of applications made in accordance with DoD Instruction 5305.5, "Space Management Procedures, National Capital Region" (see) and 40 U.S.C. 590 to the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) for building space for use in providing child care for DoD personnel, and comply with GSA standards for funding and operation of child care programs in GSA-controlled space.

(i) Where the DoD is the sole sponsoring agency and the space has been delegated to the DoD by the GSA, the space must comply with the requirements prescribed in this part.

(ii) For the National Capital Region, space acquisition procedures in DoD Instruction 5305.5 shall be used to gain the assignment of space in Government-owned or Government-leased facilities from the GSA.

(14) Require that CDPs follow the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) and comply with generally accepted practices endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and Centers for Disease Control or the latest guidance provided by OFP/CY.

(15) Establish and implement DoD Component-specific child care fees based on the DoD-issued fee policy on an annual basis, and issue supplemental guidance on fees for school-age programs, hourly care, preschool programs, DoD Component approved community-based programs, and FCC subsidies. Submit DoD Component-specific requests for waiver for any deviation from DoD policy, including selection of the high or low cost fee option, to the Office of the DASD (MC&FP) through OFP/CY for approval.

(16) Establish guidelines for communication between command, installation, and educational and behavioral support systems.

(17) Require that all military installations under their authority follow guidance that addresses the ages and circumstances under which a child under 13 years of age can be left at home alone without adult supervision, also known as a "home alone policy," or "self-care policy." The installation commander should approve this policy in consultation with the installation director of the Family Advocacy Program. Guidance is consistent with or more stringent than applicable laws and ordinances of the State and country in which the installations are located.

(18) Establish guidance and operating procedures to provide services for children with special needs in accordance with 32 CFR part 56, "Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs and Activities Assisted or conducted by the Department of Defense" that implement section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act for federally conducted and federally assisted programs and 42 U.S.C. 12102, "The American Disabilities Act" as they apply to children and youth with special needs.

(i) Require procedures for reviewing and making reasonable accommodation for children with special needs that do not fundamentally alter the nature of the program.

(ii) Consider the needs of the child, the disability, and the environment of group care in child development facilities or home-based care, staffing needs and training requirements, and the resources of the program.

(iii) Include CDPs as part of the Multidisciplinary Inclusion Action Team that supports families of children with special needs.

(19) Establish guidance and operating procedures to provide services for children of the deployed.

(20) Establish standard risk management procedures for responding to emergency or contingency situations. This includes, but is not limited to, natural disasters, pandemic disease outbreaks, allegations of child abuse or neglect, active shooter, or an installation or facility lockdown.

(21) Require that vehicles used to transport children comply with Federal motor vehicle safety standards in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 30125 and applicable State or host nation requirements.

(22) Notify applicable civilian patrons annually of their potential tax liability associated with child care subsidies, and ensure that information required by the third party administrator (TPA) is provided in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 129.

(23) Require that a current plan to implement direct cash subsidies to military-approved child care providers to expand the availability of child care spaces and meet specialized child care needs, such as weekend and evening care, special needs, deployment support, and respite child care support, is in place.

(d) The Secretaries of the Military Departments, in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (c) of this section, shall:

(1) Work with the Heads of the DoD Components to implement CDPs in accordance with this part.

(2) Notify the OFP/CY of any Service-wide specific requirements that will require a waiver to deviate from existing policy.

(e) The Installation Commanders (under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Military Department concerned) shall:

(1) Require that CDPs within his or her jurisdiction are in compliance with this part.

(2) Require that child care fees are used in accordance with DoD Instruction 5305.5 and paragraph (c)(2) of ยง 79.6.
