
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.5 Responsibilities.
####### Directors of the Defense Agencies and DoD Field Activities.

(f)In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (c) of this section, the Directors of the Defense Agencies and DoD Field Activities shall:

(1) Require that CDPs within his or her jurisdiction are in compliance with this part.

(2) Require that child care fees are used in accordance with DoD Instruction 5305.5 and paragraph (c)(2) of ยง 79.6.

(3) Require that CDP direct program staff are paid in accordance with Volume 1405 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. Ensure 75 percent of the program's direct program staff total labor hours are paid to direct program staff who are in benefit status.

(4) Require that there are adequate numbers of qualified professional staff to manage the CDPs according to the Service manpower and child space staffing requirements and referenced in paragraphs (c) and (d) of ยง 79.6 of this part.

(5) Manage child care priority policy, as directed by their respective DoD Component.

(6) Manage hardship waiver policy (financial and operational), as directed by their respective DoD Component.

(7) Review and validate the demand for installation child care capacity and take appropriate action to expand the availability of care, as needed. See paragraph (h) of ยง 79.6 of this part.

(8) Convene a Parent Board, and require that a viable Parent Participation Program is in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1783 and 1795.

(9) Implement mandated annual and periodic inspections and complete required corrective and follow-up actions within timeframes specified by their respective DoD Component.
