
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart H - Post-Award Administration
####### ยง 22.810 Payments.
######## Policy.

(b)(1) It is Governmentwide policy to minimize the time elapsing between any payment of funds to a recipient and the recipient's disbursement of the funds for program purposes.

(2) It also is a Governmentwide requirement to use electronic funds transfer (EFT) in the payment of any grant unless the recipient has obtained a waiver in accordance with Department of the Treasury regulations at 31 CFR part 208. As a matter of DoD policy, this requirement applies to cooperative agreements, as well as grants. Within the Department of Defense, the Defense Finance and Accounting Service implements this EFT requirement, and grants officers have collateral responsibilities at the time of award, as described in ยง 22.605(c), and in post-award administration, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.

(3) Expanding on these Governmentwide policies, DoD policy is for DoD Components to use electronic commerce, to the maximum extent practicable, in the portions of the payment process for grants and cooperative agreements for which grants officers are responsible. In cases where recipients submit each payment request to the grants officer, this includes using electronic methods to receive recipients' requests for payment and to transmit authorizations for payment to the DoD payment office. Using electronic methods will improve timeliness and accuracy of payments and reduce administrative burdens associated with paper-based payments.
