
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.6 Procedures.
####### Funding.

(2)CDPs are funded by a combination of APF and NAF.

(i) The amount of APF used to operate CDPs shall be no less than the amount collected through child care fees, except for CDCs that operate under a long-term facility's contract or lease-purchase agreement under 10 U.S.C. 2809 and 2812.

(A) A family's child care fee category is determined based on an initial and subsequent annual verification of TFI. Families pay the child care fee assigned to that TFI category. A family's fees may only be adjusted once per year, with exceptions listed in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(E) of this section. TFI is determined utilizing DD Form 2652.

(B) APF may be used to subsidize child care in military-approved civilian programs in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1791 through 1800.

(C) DoD Components establishing child care fee assistance programs for their employees must contribute the amounts required to pay subsidies out of agency APFs.

(D) FCC providers are private contractors. Fees are established between the provider and parent, unless such providers receive direct monetary subsidies. When FCC providers receive direct monetary subsidies to reduce the cost of care for the families they service, the installation commander or DoD Component shall determine relevant fees charged by FCC providers.

(E) Fees may be adjusted:
