
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.6 Procedures.
####### Parent Board.

(5)In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1783 and 1795, each CDP shall establish a Parent Board to discuss problems and concerns and to provide recommendations for improving CDPs. The Board, with the staff of the program, is responsible for coordinating a parent participation program.

(i) The Board shall be composed only of parents of children enrolled in the installation CDP facilities that are Military Service members, retired Military Service members, or spouses of Military Service members or retired Military Service members, and chaired by such a parent.

(ii) The Board shall meet periodically with the staff of the program and the installation commander, Defense Agency Director, or DoD Field Activity Director to discuss problems and concerns. Board recommendations shall be forwarded to the installation commander, Defense Agency Director, or DoD Field Activity Director for review and disposition. These recommendations are reviewed during the DoD certification inspection.

(iii) The Board shall coordinate a parent participation program with CDP staff to ensure parents are involved in CDP planning and evaluation. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1795, parents participating in such program may be eligible for child care fees at a rate lower than the rate that otherwise applies.
