
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.6 Procedures.
####### Immunizations.,http://www.vaccines.mil/documents/969r40_562.pdf

(7)Children enrolling in or currently enrolled in DoD CDPs must provide written documentation of immunizations appropriate for the child's age. Per AR 40-562/BUMEDINST 6230.15A/AFJI 48-110/CG COMDTINST M6230.4F, "Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis" (see), immunizations recommended by the ACIP are required.

(i) All records shall be updated at least annually and kept on file. Any child not enrolled in a school system where proof of currency of vaccination is required must provide proof of currency.

(ii) Children enrolled in a local public school system and volunteer sports coaches are excluded from this requirement.

(iii) A waiver for an immunization exemption may be granted for medical or religious reasons. Philosophical exemptions are not permitted. The DoD Component must provide guidance on the waiver process.

(A) A statement from the child's health care provider is required if an immunization may not be administered because of a medical condition. The statement must document the reason why the child is exempt.

(B) If an immunization is not administered because of a parent's religious beliefs, the parent must provide a written statement stating that he or she objects to the vaccination based upon religious beliefs.

(C) During a documented outbreak of a contagious disease (as determined by local DoD Medical authorities) that has a vaccine, the child who is attending the program under an immunization waiver for that vaccine, will be excluded from the program for his or her protection and the safety of the other children and staff until the contagious period is over.

(iv) Civilian employees (including specified regular volunteers) and FCC providers shall obtain appropriate immunization against communicable diseases in accordance with recommendations from the ACIP. The requirement for appropriate immunization is a condition of continued employment or active participation in the program or organization.

(A) This requirement is waived if a current immunization, a protective titer, or a medical exemption is approved and documented. A waiver for an immunization exemption may also be granted for religious reasons. Philosophical exemptions are not permitted.

(B) The DoD Component must provide guidance on the waiver process. The DoD Component must approve all waivers and documentation of the waiver kept on file.

(C) During a documented outbreak of a contagious disease, staff with a waiver will be excluded from the program for their protection and the safety of the other children and staff until the contagious period is over.
