
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.6 Procedures.
####### CDP Direct Care Personnel and FCC Providers.

(3)

(i) Training requirements for direct care personnel (excluding FCC providers) shall be linked to the DoD CDP Employee Wage Plan implemented in response to 10 U.S.C. 1783, and 1791 through 1800 to include completion of the DoD-approved competency based training modules within DoD Component specified time frames.

(ii) All newly hired CDP direct care personnel and FCC providers shall complete 40 hours of orientation. Orientation shall begin prior to working with children, with the full 40 hours completed within the first 90 days of employment. Orientation completion shall be documented for each direct care personnel or FCC provider. Orientation includes:

(A) Working with children of different ages, including developmentally appropriate activities and environmental observations.

(B) Age-appropriate guidance and discipline techniques.

(C) Applicable regulations, policies, and procedures.

(D) Child safety and fire prevention.

(E) Child abuse prevention, identification, and reporting.

(F) Parent and family relations.

(G) Health and sanitation procedures, including blood-borne pathogens, occupational health hazards for direct care personnel, and recognizing symptoms of illness.

(H) Emergency health and safety procedures, including pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first aid.

(I) Safe infant sleep practices and Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) prevention.

(J) Nutrition, obesity prevention, and meal service.

(K) Working with children with special needs.

(L) Accountability and child supervision training.

(M) For FCC providers only, infant and child (pediatric) CPR and first aid must be completed prior to accepting children for care. Training shall be updated as necessary to maintain current certifications.

(N) For FCC providers only, training in business operations.

(iii) CDP direct care personnel and FCC providers shall complete additional training specified by the DoD Component within 90 days of beginning work. The training shall include, at a minimum, in-depth training on the subjects covered in the orientation as well as infant and child (pediatric) CPR and first aid, which shall be updated as necessary to maintain current certifications.

(iv) CDP direct care personnel and FCC providers shall complete a minimum of 24 hours per year of ongoing training by the DoD Component approved training program. Training shall include child abuse prevention, identification and reporting, safe infant sleep practices and SIDS prevention, working with children with special needs, and if required, administering medication.

(v) Substitute FCC providers must complete a basic orientation and background checks prior to providing care. Such orientation includes child abuse prevention, identification and reporting, working with children with special needs, safety procedures and pediatric CPR and first aid, and SIDS prevention. The FCC provider's spouse may serve as a backup provider on a limited basis, as designated by the DoD Component and must complete the required substitute FCC provider training.
