
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.6 Procedures.
####### Administration and Oversight of Community-Based Care Providers.,Types of Care.

(h)(1)Efforts shall be made to expand the availability of these programs through referrals to comparable programs off of the installation through participation in consortiums with other Federal and non-governmental entities.

(i) Efforts shall be made to ensure quality, affordable child care options exist for all eligible patrons, including those who are geographically dispersed active duty military and their families. Community-based child care options are designed to supplement, not replace, child care programs on the installation.

(ii) Care may be delivered through military-approved community-based CDPs, utilizing a myriad of delivery systems, including existing child care facilities, schools, recreation and after-school and summer programs, and home-based care programs.

(iii) Programs that support the needs of eligible deployed families in military-approved community-based child care programs where care is needed for a short-term basis during the deployment phase must meet the State licensing regulations and requirements and be inspected by an outside agency once a year. All other types of care must meet the intent of this part.

(iv) Programs shall meet State licensing standards for background checks.

(v) Military-approved community-based child care programs will be encouraged to participate in an evaluation process utilizing the ERIS in this section, a detailed assessment tool developed by the DoD to evaluate facility-based child care providers.
