
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 79 - CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (CDPs)
###### ยง 79.6 Procedures.
####### Subsidies.

(2)

(i) The DoD Components may subsidize a portion of the cost of child care incurred by eligible active duty and DoD civilian employees.

(ii) Subsidies resulting from the child care provided to children of active duty military members are excluded from gross income pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 134.

(iii) Subsidies provided to DoD civilian employees may qualify for exclusion from gross income, provided the specific program used qualifies under 26 U.S.C. 129(d) and the employee receives the subsidy for an eligible purpose on behalf of an eligible child as described in 26 U.S.C. 21(a) and 21(b). Subsidies in excess of the excludable amounts will be treated as gross income under 26 U.S.C. 61. Employees are advised to consult with a qualified tax expert with questions or concerns related to taxability of child care subsidies.

(iv) Child care programs and providers who offer their services under this provision must comply with the standards outlined in this part and must be approved by the plan administrator or designee prior to issuance of subsidy payments by a DoD Component.

(v) The DoD Components are responsible for budgeting for child care subsidies and are not to establish a special fund out of which child care subsidies are paid, nor will eligible users of Military Child Development Programs be required to make a contribution as a condition of receiving a child care subsidy.

(vi) The DoD Components have the discretion to amend or terminate their participation in a child care subsidy program under this plan at any time. The benefits in this section are not guaranteed and may be reduced by plan amendment.

(vii) The OFP/CY will designate a TPA to administer the Military Department, Defense Agency, and DoD Field Activity civilian child care subsidy program for all DoD Components. Each civilian sponsor must register with the TPA contracted by the Defense Department.

(A) The TPA shall annually document family and provider eligibility, TFI, child data, and other information required to comply with reporting requirements, in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 21(a), 21(b), 61, 129, and 134.

(B) The TPA shall provide authorization and payment of child care subsidies to the provider. All subsidy payments shall be made to the child care provider.

(C) The TPA shall comply with fee assistance guidelines established by the individual DoD Components.
