
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 86 - BACKGROUND CHECKS ON INDIVIDUALS IN DOD CHILD CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS
###### ยง 86.5 Responsibilities.

(a) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and Force Management (ASD(R&FM)):

(1) Ensures the conduct of criminal history background checks complies with DoD policy and the Criminal Justice Information Services Division of the FBI's operational and security policies and procedures.

(2) Monitors DoD Component compliance with this part, applicable laws, and subsequent guidance issued by the applicable ISP.

(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R&FM), the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Civilian Personnel Policy (DASD(CPP)) oversees development of DoD Component policies and procedures for the background check initiation, completion, adjudication, and suitability or fitness determination process for civilian employees in accordance with this part.

(c) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R&FM), the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MC&FP)) oversees development of DoD Component policies and procedures related to the background check initiation, completion, adjudication, and fitness determination process for specified volunteers, FCC providers and adults residing in their home, and others as identified in accordance with this part.

(d) Under the authority, direction, and control of the ASD(R&FM), the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy (DASD(MPP)):

(1) Implements this part for military personnel in accordance with DoD Instruction 5200.02.

(2) Institutes effective quality assurance and quality control systems for chaplains, support staff, specified volunteers, and contractors who provide support to religious programs and activities identified in ยง 86.6(a)(5)(v) and in accordance with this part.

(e) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Deputy Chief Management Officer (DCMO) of the Department of Defense, the Director of Administration ensures that the adjudication of background investigations of individuals who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned programs considers the criteria for presumptive and automatic disqualification as specified in this part.

(f) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&L)) establishes policies and procedures for the background check initiation, completion, adjudication, and fitness determination process for contractors in accordance with the requirements of this part.

(g) The DoD Component heads:

(1) Ensure Component compliance with the requirements of this part, applicable laws, and guidance for civilian employees.

(2) Ensure compliance with suitability and fitness determination policies, requirements, and procedures for individuals in child care services in DoD programs as defined in 42 U.S.C. 13041 and DoD Instruction 1400.25.

(3) Ensure compliance with policies, requirements, and procedures for LOSS of individuals with a favorable interim suitability determination.

(4) Provide support and resources as required to implement this part and any Component-specific policies, requirements, and procedures, and ensure implementation.
