
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 86 - BACKGROUND CHECKS ON INDIVIDUALS IN DOD CHILD CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS
###### ยง 86.6 Procedures.
####### Requirements for criminal history background checks.

(a)(1) All criminal history background checks required by this part must be initiated, tracked, and overseen by properly trained and vetted individuals who have been determined to be responsible for personnel security pursuant to DoD Instruction 5200.02 or human resource functions pursuant to Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. Program managers, supervisors, and others not routinely performing personnel security and human resource functions are prohibited from managing the criminal history checks.

(2) All employment applications completed by individuals subject to this part must comply with the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 13041(d).

(3) The DoD Component will ensure that only authorized ISPs are used.

(4) When permitted by the host government, foreign government checks of individuals serving on DoD installations overseas must be requested directly by the employing Military Service or agency in accordance with Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. As an alternative, DoD Components may request that overseas Military Service investigative elements obtain appropriate host-government checks and accept such checks if they are comparable to those required by 42 U.S.C. 13041. Where it is not possible to obtain criminal history checks comparable to those required by 42 U.S.C. 13041, foreign nationals will not be eligible for employment in child care services.

(5) Individuals subject to criminal history background checks are:

(i) All personnel employed or performing duties in DoD Child and Youth or other sanctioned child care services programs.

(ii) Individuals providing in-home FCC.
