
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 86 - BACKGROUND CHECKS ON INDIVIDUALS IN DOD CHILD CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS
###### ยง 86.6 Procedures.
####### e.g.,

(iii) Personnel employed or performing duties in child and youth recreational and athletic programs (Morale, Welfare, and Recreation), including instructors and, when working in a facility when children and youth are present, custodial personnel.

(iv) Individuals employed or performing duties in a DoDEA school (whether or not directly involved with teaching), including but not limited to teachers, administrators, other professional staff, aides, bus drivers, janitors, cafeteria workers, nurses, and attendants.

(v) Chaplains, chaplains' assistants, religious program specialists, and other individuals employed or performing child care services duties for children under 18 years of age on a DoD installation or as part of a military-sanctioned program.

(vi) Foster and respite child care providers on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity.

(vii) Health and mental health care personnel, employed or performing child care services duties on a DoD installation, in a DoD sanctioned program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including but not limited to physicians, dentists, nurse practitioners, clinical social workers, physical therapists, speech-language pathologists, clinical support staff (including residents), registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, nursing assistants, play therapists, and technicians.

(viii) Individuals employed or performing child care duties in social services, residential care, rehabilitation programs, detention, and correctional services on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity.

(ix) Any other individuals reasonably expected to have regular contact with children on a DoD installation, in a DoD sanctioned program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including specified volunteers and any person 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home. Healthcare providers participating in TRICARE shall be governed by TRICARE policy.

(6) The DoD Components will also determine any other classes of positions subject to criminal history background checks, taking care to ensure that all individuals who have regular contact with children when providing child care services are investigated and the requirement must pertain to the class as a whole.

(7) Individuals designated in non-specified volunteer positions must always be under direct LOSS in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
