
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 86 - BACKGROUND CHECKS ON INDIVIDUALS IN DOD CHILD CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS
###### ยง 86.6 Procedures.
####### Criteria for presumptive disqualification.

(1)Officials charged with making determinations pursuant to this part must include in the record a written justification for any favorable determination made where background check findings include any of the following presumptively disqualifying information:

(i) A FAP record indicating that the individual met criteria for child abuse or neglect or civil adjudication that the individual committed child abuse or neglect.

(ii) Evidence of an act or acts by the individual that tend to indicate poor judgment, unreliability, or untrustworthiness in providing child care services.

(iii) Evidence or documentation of the individual's past or present dependency on or addiction to any controlled or psychoactive substances, narcotics, cannabis, or other dangerous drug without evidence of rehabilitation.

(iv) A conviction, including any general, special, or summary court-martial conviction, or non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ for:

(A) A crime of violence committed against an adult.

(B) Illegal or improper use, possession, or addiction to any controlled or psychoactive substances, narcotics, cannabis, or other dangerous drug.

(v) A civil adjudication that terminated the individual's parental rights to his or her child, except in cases where the birth parent places his or her child for adoption.
