
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 86 - BACKGROUND CHECKS ON INDIVIDUALS IN DOD CHILD CARE SERVICES PROGRAMS
###### ยง 86.6 Procedures.
####### Reinvestigation.

(e)(1) All DoD civilian employees (both APF and NAF), contractors, military personnel, and any other individuals reasonably expected to have regular contact with children on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including specified volunteers and any person 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home, who continue to perform duties in the position for which their initial background check was conducted, must undergo a reinvestigation every 5 years. The reinvestigation must consist of the same check conducted for the initial investigation as outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) All FCC providers and adults residing in an FCC home must undergo an annual reinvestigation utilizing the Special Agreement Check (SAC) for childcare providers. The SAC reinvestigation consists of an update to the initial investigation as outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) If the reinvestigation results in an unfavorable determination, the DoD Components will take action to protect children by reassigning or removing the individual from employment, contract, or volunteer status.

(4) If derogatory information surfaces within the 5 years before the reinvestigation, the DoD Component will take action to protect children by reassigning or suspending from having contact with children, any individual, contractor or volunteer until the case is resolved.
