
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 89 - INTERSTATE COMPACT ON EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR MILITARY CHILDREN
###### ยง 89.4 Policy.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/550007r.pdf

In accordance with the sense of Congress as set forth in section 539 of Public Law 111-84, "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010" and DoD 5500.07-R, "Joint Ethics Regulations (JER)" (available at), it is DoD policy to support the intent of the Compact by reducing the difficulty children of military families (referred to in this part as "children" or "the child") have in transferring between school systems because of frequent moves and deployment of their parents. DoD will support the Compact by:

(a) Designating military liaisons, by position, to State Councils of member States, the DoDEA Committee, and the MIC3.

(b) Implementing the intent of the Compact in the DoDEA to ensure:

(1) Timely enrollment of children in school so they are not penalized due to:

(i) Late or delayed transfers of education records from the previous school district(s); or

(ii) Differences in entrance or age requirements.

(2) Placement of children in educational courses and programs, including special educational services, so they are not penalized due to differences in attendance requirements, scheduling, sequencing, grading, or course content.

(3) Flexible qualification and eligibility of children so they can have an equitable chance at participation in extracurricular, academic, athletic, and social activities.

(4) Graduation within the same timeframe as the children's peers.

(c) Promoting through DoDEA and the Military Departments:

(1) Flexibility and cooperation among SEAs or LEAs, DoDEA, Military Departments, parents, and children to achieve educational success.

(2) Coordination among the various State agencies, LEAs, and military installations regarding the State's participation in the Compact.
