
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 89 - INTERSTATE COMPACT ON EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR MILITARY CHILDREN
###### ยง 89.7 Representatives to State Councils, the DoDEA Committee and MIC3.
####### Military Representatives designated by position as Liaisons to State Councils.

(a)In accordance with section 3-201 of DoD 5500.07-R, incumbents of positions designated as liaisons to State Councils will:

(1) Be a military member or a civilian employee of DoD who has a direct interface with the State education system as part of official duties or has supervisory responsibility for those who do.

(2) Only represent DoD interests (not the interests of the State Council), and consequently may not:

(i) Engage in management or control of the State Council (therefore, may not vote or make decisions on daily administration of council);

(ii) Endorse or allow the appearance of DoD endorsement of the State Council or its events, products, services, or enterprises;

(iii) Represent the State Council to third parties; or

(iv) Represent the State Council to the U.S. Government, as prohibited by federal criminal statutes.

(3) Make clear to the State Council that:

(i) The opinions expressed by the representative do not bind DoD or any DoD Component to any action.

(ii) If included on State Council Web sites, all references to the representative by name or title must indicate that they are the "Military Representative" as opposed to a council member.

(4) Notify the chain of command of issues requiring policy decisions or actions requested of the military community within the State.

(5) When called upon to act as the spokesperson for one or more than one installation:

(i) Get feedback from the designated points of contact at each military installation within his or her responsibility.

(ii) Coordinate proposed input to the State Council with the appropriate points of contact for each military installation within his or her responsibility.

(iii) Act as a conduit for information between the State Council and each military installation within his or her responsibility.

(iv) Provide feedback through the chain of command to the points of contact for each military installation within his or her responsibility and, as appropriate, to the OASA(M&RA), the OASN(M&RA), or the OASAF(M&RA).
