
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 22 - DoD GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS - AWARD AND ADMINISTRATION
###### Subpart H - Post-Award Administration
####### ยง 22.820 Debt collection.
######## Grants officer's decision.

(c)In the absence of such mutual agreement, any claim of a recipient's indebtedness shall be the subject of a grants officer decision, in accordance with ยง 22.815(b)(2). The grants officer shall prepare and transmit to the recipient a written notice that:

(1) Describes the debt, including the amount, the name and address of the official who determined the debt (e.g., the grants officer under ยง 22.815(d)), and a copy of that determination.

(2) Informs the recipient that:

(i) Within 30 calendar days of the grants officer's decision, the recipient shall either pay the amount owed to the grants officer (at the address that was provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section) or inform the grants officer of the recipient's intention to appeal the decision.

(ii) If the recipient elects not to appeal, any amounts not paid within 30 calendar days of the grants officer's decision will be a delinquent debt.

(iii) If the recipient elects to appeal the grants officer's decision the recipient has 90 calendar days, or 150 calendar days if ADR procedures are used, after receipt of the grants officer's decision to file the appeal, in accordance with ยง 22.815(e)(3)(i).

(iv) The debt will bear interest, and may include penalties and other administrative costs, in accordance with the debt collection provisions in Chapters 29, 31, and 32 of Volume 5 and Chapters 18 and 19 of Volume 10 of the DoD Financial Management Regulation (DoD 7000.14-R). No interest will be charged if the recipient pays the amount owed within 30 calendar days of the grants officer's decision. Interest will be charged for the entire period from the date the decision was mailed, if the recipient pays the amount owed after 30 calendar days.
