
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 89 - INTERSTATE COMPACT ON EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR MILITARY CHILDREN
###### ยง 89.7 Representatives to State Councils, the DoDEA Committee and MIC3.
####### Ex-Officio Member Serving as a Liaison to MIC3.

(d)In accordance with section 3-201 of DoD 5500.07-R, the DoD ex-officio member to the Commission, must:

(1) Be a military member or a civilian employee of DoD who can remain in the position for at least 2 years and who has a direct interface with DoDEA and the U.S. public education system as part of official duties or has supervisory responsibility for those who do.

(2) Attend as a liaison meetings of MIC3, its Executive Committee, and other standing committees where requested by the Commission.

(3) Only represent DoD interests (not the interests of MIC3), and consequently may not:

(i) Engage in management or control of MIC3 (therefore, may not vote or make decisions on daily administration of MIC3);

(ii) Endorse or allow the appearance of DoD endorsement of MIC3, or its events, products, services, or enterprises;

(iii) Represent the Commission to third parties; or

(iv) Represent MIC3 to the U.S. Government, as prohibited by criminal statutes.

(4) Make clear to MIC3 that:

(i) The opinions expressed by the incumbent do not bind DoD or any DoD Component to any action.

(ii) If included on MIC3 Web sites, all references to the incumbent by name or title must indicate that they are the "DoD Ex-Officio Member" as opposed to a MIC3 member.

(5) Notify the chain of command of issues requiring policy decisions or actions requested of DoD.
