
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 93 - ACCEPTANCE OF SERVICE OF PROCESS; RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN LITIGATION; AND TESTIMONY BY NSA PERSONNEL AS WITNESSES
###### ยง 93.5 Procedures.
####### Release of official information in litigation.

(a)NSA personnel shall not produce, disclose, release, comment upon, or testify concerning any official information during litigation without the prior written approval of the GC. In exigent circumstances, the GC may issue oral approval, but a record of such approval will be made and retained in the OGC. NSA personnel shall not provide, with or without compensation, opinion or expert testimony concerning official NSA information, subjects, or activities, except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the Department of Justice (DoJ). Upon a showing by the requester of exceptional need or unique circumstances and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the NSA or the United States, the GC may, in writing, grant special authorization for NSA personnel to appear and testify at no expense to the United States. Official information may be released in litigation only in compliance with the following procedures.

(1) If official information is sought, through testimony or otherwise, by a litigation demand, the individual seeking such release or testimony must set forth, in writing and with as much specificity as possible, the nature and relevance of the official information sought. Subject to paragraph (a)(5) of this section, NSA personnel may only produce, disclose, release, comment upon or testify concerning those matters that were specified in writing and approved by the GC.

(2) Whenever a litigation demand is made upon NSA personnel for official information or for testimony concerning such information, the person upon whom the demand was made shall immediately notify the OGC. After consultation and coordination with the DoJ, if required, the GC shall determine whether the individual is required to comply with the demand and shall notify the requester or the court or other authority of that determination.

(3) If a litigation demand requires a response before instructions from the GC are received, the GC shall furnish the requester or the court or other authority with a copy of ยง 93.1(a) and this part 93. The GC shall also inform the requester or the court or other authority that the demand is being reviewed, and seek a stay of the demand pending a final determination.

(4) If a court or other authority declines to stay the demand in response to action taken pursuant to paragraph 3 of this section, or if such court or other authority orders that the demand must be complied with notwithstanding the final decision of the GC, the NSA personnel upon whom the demand was made shall notify the GC of such ruling or order. If the GC determines that no further legal review of or challenge to the ruling or order will be sought, the affected NSA personnel shall comply with the demand or order. If directed by the GC, however, the affected NSA personnel must decline to provide the information.The NSA personnel shall state the following to the Court:

(5) In the event NSA personnel receive a litigation demand for official information originated by another U.S. Government component, the GC shall forward the appropriate portions of the request to the other component. The GC shall notify the requester, court, or other authority of the transfer, unless such notice would itself disclose classified information.
