
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 93 - ACCEPTANCE OF SERVICE OF PROCESS; RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN LITIGATION; AND TESTIMONY BY NSA PERSONNEL AS WITNESSES
###### ยง 93.5 Procedures.
####### Service on NSA or on NSA personnel in their official capacities.

(1)ยง 93.1(d) requires service of process on the NSA or NSA personnel sued or summoned in their official capacity to be made by serving the United States Attorney for the district in which the action is brought, and by sending copies of the summons and complaint by registered or certified mail to the Attorney General of the United States and to the NSA or such NSA personnel. Only the GC or an NSA attorney is authorized to accept the copies of the summons and complaint sent to the NSA or NSA personnel pursuant to ยง 93.1(d). Acceptance of the copies of the summons and complaint by the GC or an NSA attorney does not constitute an admission or waiver with respect to the validity of the service of process or of the jurisdiction of the court or other body. Such copies shall be sent by registered or certified mail to: General Counsel, National Security Agency, 9800 Savage Road, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755-6000. The envelope shall be conspicuously marked "Copy of Summons and Complaint Enclosed." Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, no other person may accept the copies of the summons and complaint for NSA or NSA personnel sued or summoned in their official capacities, including the sued or summoned NSA personnel, without the prior express authorization of the GC.

(i) Parties who wish to deliver, instead of sending by registered or certified mail, the copies of the service of process to NSA or to NSA personnel sued or summoned in their official capacities, will comply with the procedures for service of process on NSA premises in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) Litigants may attempt to serve process upon NSA personnel in their official capacities at their residences or other places. Because NSA personnel are not authorized to accept such service of process, such service is not effective under ยง 93.1(d). NSA personnel should refuse to accept service. However, NSA personnel may find it difficult to determine whether they are being sued or summoned in their private or official capacity. Therefore, NSA personnel shall notify the OGC as soon as possible if they receive any summons or complaint that appears to relate to actions in connection with their official duties so that the GC can determine the scope of service.
