
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 94 - NATURALIZATION OF ALIENS SERVING IN THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES AND OF ALIEN SPOUSES AND/OR ALIEN ADOPTED CHILDREN OF MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ORDERED OVERSEAS
###### ยง 94.4 Policy and procedures.
####### Naturalization of alien spouses and/or alien adopted children of military and civilian personnel ordered overseas.

(c)Alien spouses and/or alien adopted children of military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense who are authorized to accompany or join their sponsors overseas and who wish to obtain U.S. citizenship prior to departure will be given maximum assistance by commanders of military installations.

(1) DD Form 1278, "Certificate of Overseas Assignment to Support Application to File Petition for Naturalization,"will be issued to alien dependents by military commanders at the times indicated below in order that the alien may file such certificate with the nearest Immigration and Naturalization Service Office to initiate naturalization proceedings. Only DD Form 1278 will be accepted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Military commanders will not issue memoranda or letters of any kind in lieu thereof.

(i) When dependents are authorized automatic concurrent travel, DD Form 1278 will be issued not earlier than 90 days prior to the dependents' schedule date of travel.

(ii) When advance application for concurrent travel is required, DD Form 1278 will be issued after approval is received and not earlier than 90 days prior to the dependents' scheduled date of departure.

(iii) When concurrent travel is not authorized, DD Form 1278 will be issued after authorization for dependents' movement is received and not earlier than 90 days prior to the dependents' scheduled date of travel.

(2) Upon receipt of DD Form 1278, the alien will file this form, together with the application for petition for naturalization, Immigration and Naturalization Form N-400 (adult) or N-402 (child) as appropriate, if not previously filed, with the nearest office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The application must be accompanied by:

(i) Three identical photographs.

(ii) Form FD-358, Applicant Fingerprint Card, and

(iii) Form G-325, Biographic Information.

(3) Further processing of the application for citizenship is as prescribed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

(4) Upon completion of the naturalization process, immediate application for passport should be made, in order that it can be issued prior to scheduled departure of the dependent for overseas.
