
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 97 - RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN LITIGATION AND PRESENTATION OF WITNESS TESTIMONY BY DOD PERSONNEL (TOUHY REGULATION)
###### ยง 97.2 Applicability.
####### https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/522006p.pdf

(3) Security-clearance adjudicative proceedings, including those conducted pursuant to DoD Directive 5220.6, "Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program," January 2, 1992, as amended (available at).

(4) Administrative proceedings conducted by or for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the Merit Systems Protection Board.

(5) Negotiated grievance proceedings conducted in accordance with a collective bargaining agreement.

(6) Requests by Government counsel representing the United States or a Federal agency in litigation.

(7) Disclosures to Federal, State, local, or foreign authorities related to investigations or other law-enforcement activities conducted by a DoD law-enforcement officer, agent, or organization.

(e) Does not affect in any way existing laws or DoD programs governing:

(1) The release of official information or the presentation of witness testimony in grand jury proceedings.

(2) Freedom of Information Act requests submitted pursuant to 32 CFR part 286, even if the records sought are related to litigation.

(3) Privacy Act requests submitted pursuant to 32 CFR part 310, even if the records sought are related to litigation.

(4) The release of official information outside of litigation.

(f) Does not create any right or benefit (substantive or procedural) enforceable at law against the DoD or the United States.
