
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.2 Applicability.

(a) This part applies to:

(1) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the DoD (IG DoD), the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (hereafter referred to collectively as the "DoD Components").

(2) National Guard and Reserve Component members who are sexually assaulted when performing active service, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(3), and inactive duty training. Refer to paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for information on how to access DoD internal policy containing additional SAPR and healthcare services provided to such personnel and eligibility criteria for Restricted Reporting.

(3) Military dependents 18 years of age and older who are eligible for treatment in the military healthcare system, at installations in the continental United States and outside of the continental United States (OCONUS), and who were victims of sexual assault perpetrated by someone other than a spouse or intimate partner. An adult military dependent may file unrestricted or restricted reports of sexual assault.

(4) The following non-military personnel who are only eligible for limited healthcare (medical and mental health) services in the form of emergency care (see ยง 103.3), unless otherwise eligible to receive treatment in a military medical treatment facility. They will also be offered the limited SAPR services of a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) and a SAPR Victim Advocate (VA) while undergoing emergency care OCONUS. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part. These limited healthcare and SAPR services shall be provided to:

(i) DoD civilian employees and their family dependents 18 years of age and older when they are stationed or performing duties OCONUS and eligible for treatment in the military healthcare system at military installations or facilities OCONUS. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(ii) U.S. citizen DoD contractor personnel when they are authorized to accompany the Armed Forces in a contingency operation OCONUS and their U.S. citizen employees (See 32 CFR part 158 and paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part).

(5) Service members who are on active duty but were victims of sexual assault prior to enlistment or commissioning. They are eligible to receive full SAPR services and either reporting option.

(b) This part does not apply to victims of sexual assault perpetrated by a spouse or intimate partner, or military dependents under the age of 18 who are sexually assaulted. For further information see paragraph (e) of Appendix A to this part.

(c) This part supersedes all policy and regulatory guidance within the DoD not expressly mandated by law that is inconsistent with its provisions, or that would preclude execution.
