
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.4 Policy.

(a) This part implements the DoD SAPR policy and the DoD SAPR Program Unrestricted and Restricted Reporting options are available to Service members and their adult military dependents. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(b) The DoD SAPR Program focuses on prevention, education and training, response capability (defined in ยง 103.3), victim support, reporting procedures, and appropriate accountability.

(c) While a sexual assault victim may disclose information to whomever he or she chooses, an official report is made only when a DD Form 2910 is signed and filed with a SARC or SAPR VA, or when a Military Criminal Investigative Organization (MCIO) investigator initiates an investigation.

(d) For Restricted and Unrestricted Reporting purposes, a report can be made to healthcare personnel, but healthcare personnel then immediately contact the SARC or SAPR VA to fill out the DD Form 2910.

(e) State laws or regulations that require disclosure of PII of the adult sexual assault victim or alleged perpetrator to local or State law enforcement shall not apply, except when reporting is necessary to prevent or mitigate a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of an individual.

(f) Unless a DD Form 2910 is filed with a SARC, a report to a Chaplain or military attorney may not result in the rendering of SAPR services or investigative action because of the privileges associated with speaking to these individuals. A Chaplain or military attorney should advise the victim to consult with a SARC to understand the full scope of services available or facilitate, with the victim's consent, contact with a SARC.

(g) The SAPR Program shall:

(1) Focus on the victim and on doing what is necessary and appropriate to support victim recovery, and also, if a Service member, to support that Service member to be fully mission capable and engaged. The SAPR Program shall provide care that is gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(2) Not provide policy for legal processes within the responsibility of the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments provided in 10 U.S.C. chapter 47 and the Manual for Courts-Martial or for criminal investigative matters assigned to the IG DoD.

(h) Standardized SAPR requirements, terminology, guidelines, protocols, and guidelines for instructional materials shall focus on awareness, prevention, and response at all levels as appropriate.

(i) The terms "Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)" and "SAPR Victim Advocate (VA)," as defined in ยง 103.3, shall be used as standard terms throughout the DoD to facilitate communications and transparency regarding SAPR capacity. For further information regarding SARC and SAPR VA roles and responsibilities, see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.
