
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.4 Policy.
####### SAPR VA.

(2)The SAPR VA shall provide non-clinical crisis intervention and on-going support, in addition to referrals for adult sexual assault victims. Support will include providing information on available options and resources to victims.

(j) An immediate, trained sexual assault response capability shall be available for each report of sexual assault in all locations, including in deployed locations. The response time may be affected by operational necessities but will reflect that sexual assault victims shall be treated as emergency cases. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(k) Victims of sexual assault shall be protected from coercion, retaliation, and reprisal. For additional information see paragraph (g) of Appendix A to this part.

(l) Victims of sexual assault shall be protected, treated with dignity and respect, and shall receive timely access to comprehensive healthcare (medical and mental health) treatment, including emergency care treatment and services. For additional information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(m) Emergency care for victims of sexual assault shall consist of emergency healthcare and the offer of a sexual assault forensic examination (SAFE). For additional information see paragraph (h) of Appendix A to this part.

(1) Sexual assault patients shall be given priority and shall be treated as emergency cases. A sexual assault victim needs immediate medical intervention to prevent loss of life or suffering resulting from physical injuries (internal or external), sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy, and psychological distress. Individuals disclosing a recent sexual assault shall, with their consent, be quickly transported to the exam site, promptly evaluated, treated for serious injuries, and then, with the patient's consent, undergo a SAFE. For additional information see paragraph (ff) of Appendix A to this part.

(2) Sexual assault patients shall be treated as emergency cases, regardless of whether physical injuries are evident. Patients' needs shall be assessed for immediate medical or mental health intervention. Sexual assault victims shall be treated uniformly regardless of their behavior because when severely traumatized, sexual assault patients may appear to be calm, indifferent, submissive, jocular, angry, emotionally distraught, or even uncooperative or hostile towards those who are trying to help. For additional information see paragraph (h) of Appendix A to this part.

(n) There will be a safety assessment capability for the purposes of ensuring the victim, and possibly other persons, are not in physical jeopardy. A safety assessment will be available to all Service members, adult military dependents, and civilians who are eligible for SAPR services, even if the victim is not physically located on the installation. The installation commander or the deputy installation commander will identify installation personnel who have been trained and are able to perform a safety assessment of each sexual assault victim, regardless of whether he or she filed a Restricted or Unrestricted Report. Individuals tasked to conduct safety assessments must occupy positions that do not compromise the victim's reporting options. The safety assessment will be conducted as soon as possible, understanding that any delay may impact the safety of the victim.

(o) Service members and their dependents who are 18 years of age or older covered by this part who are sexually assaulted have two reporting options: Unrestricted or Restricted Reporting. Unrestricted Reporting of sexual assault is favored by the DoD. For additional information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part. Protections are taken with PII solicited, collected, maintained, accessed, used, disclosed, and disposed during the treatment and reporting processes. For additional information see paragraph (j) of Appendix A to this part. The two reporting options are as follows:
