
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.4 Policy.
####### Disclosure of confidential communications.

(v)In cases where a victim elects Restricted Reporting, the SARC, assigned SAPR VA, and healthcare personnel may not disclose confidential communications or SAFE Kit information to law enforcement or command authorities, either within or outside the DoD. In certain situations when information about a sexual assault comes to the commander's or law enforcement official's attention from a source independent of the Restricted Reporting avenues and an independent investigation is initiated, a SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel may not disclose confidential communications if obtained under Restricted Reporting. Improper disclosure of confidential communications protected under Restricted Reporting, improper release of healthcare information, and other violations of this policy or other laws and regulations are prohibited and may result in discipline pursuant to the UCMJ, or other adverse personnel or administrative actions. See paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for additional information.

(p) Eligible victims must be informed of the availability of legal assistance and the right to consult with an SVC/VLC in accordance with section 1716 of the NDAA for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 (Pub. L. 113-66).

(q) Enlistment or commissioning of personnel in the Military Services shall be prohibited and no waivers are allowed when the person has a qualifying conviction (see ยง 103.3) for a crime of sexual assault.

(r) The DoD shall provide support to an active duty Service member regardless of when or where the sexual assault took place.

(s) Information regarding Unrestricted Reports should only be released to personnel with an official need to know or as authorized by law. Improper disclosure of confidential communications under Unrestricted Reporting or improper release of medical information are prohibited and may result in disciplinary action pursuant to the UCMJ or other adverse personnel or administrative actions.

(t) The DoD will retain the DD Forms 2910, "Victim Reporting Preference Statement," and 2911, "DoD Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Report," for 50 years, regardless of whether the Service member filed a Restricted or Unrestricted Report as defined in this part. PII will be protected in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a, also known as the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) and 32 CFR part 310 and Public Law 104-191.

(u) For document retention and SAFE Kit retention for Unrestricted Reports:
