
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.5 Responsibilities.
####### https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/

(21) Require that a completed DD Form 2701, "Initial Information for Victims and Witnesses of Crime," be distributed to the victim. (DD Form 2701 is located at the DoD Forms Management Program website atand in DoD Instruction 1030.2). For further information see paragraph (n) of Appendix A to this part.

(22) When drafting MOUs or MOAs with local civilian medical facilities to provide DoD-reimbursable healthcare (to include psychological care) and forensic examinations for Service members and TRICARE eligible sexual assault victims, require commanders to include the following provisions:

(i) Local private or public sector providers notify the SARC or SAPR VA.

(ii) Local private or public sector providers shall have processes and procedures in place to assess that local community standards meet or exceed those set forth in U.S. Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women, "A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents," current version as a condition of the MOUs or MOAs.

(23) Comply with collective bargaining obligations, if applicable.

(24) Provide SAPR training and education for civilian employees of the military departments in accordance with section 585 of Public Law 112-81.

(25) Require the SARCs and SAPR VAs to collaborate with designated Special Victim Investigation and Prosecution (SVIP) Capability personnel during all stages of the investigative and military justice process to ensure an integrated capability to the greatest extent possible. For further information see paragraphs (bb) and (cc) of Appendix A to this part.
