
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.6 Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.
####### Restricted Reporting.

(2)This reporting option does not trigger an investigation. The command is notified that "an alleged sexual assault" occurred but is not given the victim's name or other personally identifying information. Restricted Reporting allows Service members and military dependents who are adult sexual assault victims to confidentially disclose the assault to specified individuals (SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel) and receive healthcare treatment and the assignment of a SARC and SAPR VA. A sexual assault victim can report directly to a SARC, who will respond or direct a SAPR VA to respond, offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE, and explain to the victim the resources available through the DD Form 2910, where the reporting option is elected. The Restricted Reporting option is only available to Service members and adult military dependents. Restricted Reporting may not be available in a jurisdiction that requires mandatory reporting if a victim first reports to a civilian facility or civilian authority, which will vary by state, territory, and overseas agreements. See paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part for additional information. However, section 536 of the NDAA for FY 2016 preempts mandatory reporting laws, provided the victim first reports to an MTF, except when reporting is necessary to prevent or mitigate a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of an individual, thereby preserving the Restricted Reporting option. If a victim elects this reporting option, a victim may convert a Restricted Report to an Unrestricted Report at any time. The conversion to an Unrestricted Report will be documented with a signature by the victim and the signature of the SARC or SAPR VA in the appropriate block on the DD Form 2910.

(i) Only the SARC, SAPR VA, and healthcare personnel are designated as authorized to accept a Restricted Report. Healthcare personnel, to include psychotherapists and other personnel listed in Military Rule of Evidence (MRE) 513 of Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, "DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms," who received a Restricted Report (meaning that a victim wishes to file a DD Form 2910 or have a SAFE) shall contact a SARC or SAPR VA. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(ii) A SAFE and the information contained in its accompanying Kit are provided the same confidentiality as is afforded victim statements under the Restricted Reporting option. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(iii) The victim's decision not to participate in an investigation or prosecution will not affect access to SARC and SAPR VA services, medical and psychological care, or services from an SVC or VLC. These services shall be made available to all eligible sexual assault victims.

(iv) If a victim approaches a SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare provider and begins to make a report, but then changes his or her mind and leaves without signing the DD Form 2910 (the form where the reporting option is selected), the SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare provider is not under any obligation or duty to inform investigators or commanders about this report and will not produce the report or disclose the communications surrounding the report.
