
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.6 Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.
####### Independent investigations.

(c)Independent investigations are not initiated by the victim. If information about a sexual assault comes to a commander's attention from a source other than a victim (victim may have elected Restricted Reporting or where no report has been made by the victim), that commander shall immediately report the matter to an MCIO and an official (independent) investigation may be initiated based on that independently acquired information.

(1) If there is an ongoing independent investigation, the sexual assault victim will no longer have the option of Restricted Reporting when:

(i) DoD law enforcement informs the SARC of the investigation, and

(ii) The victim has not already elected Restricted Reporting.

(2) The timing of filing a Restricted Report is crucial. In order to take advantage of the Restricted Reporting option, the victim must file a Restricted Report by signing a DD Form 2910 before the SARC is informed of an ongoing independent investigation of the sexual assault.

(i) If a SARC is notified of an ongoing independent investigation and the victim has not signed a DD Form 2910 electing Restricted Report, the SARC must inform the victim that the option to file a Restricted Report is no longer available. However, all communications between the victim and the victim advocate will remain privileged, subject to regulatory exceptions, except for the minimum necessary to make the Unrestricted Report.

(ii) If an independent investigation begins after the victim has formally elected Restricted Reporting (by signing the DD Form 2910), the independent investigation has no impact on the victim's Restricted Report, and the victim's communications and SAFE Kit remain confidential, to the extent authorized by law and DoD regulations.
