
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.6 Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.
####### SARC procedures.

(h)The SARC shall:

(1) Serve as the single point of contact to coordinate sexual assault response when a sexual assault is reported. All SARCs shall be authorized to perform victim advocate duties in accordance with Military Service regulations and will be acting in the performance of those duties.

(2) Comply with DoD Sexual Assault Advocate Certification requirements.

(3) Be trained in and understand the confidentiality requirements of Restricted Reporting and MRE 514. Training must include exceptions to Restricted Reporting and MRE 514.

(4) Be authorized to accept reports of sexual assault along with the SAPR VA and healthcare personnel. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(5) Provide a 24 hour, 7 days per week, response capability to victims of sexual assault, to include deployed areas.

(6) In accordance with policy, ensure a safety assessment is performed in every sexual assault case. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(i) SARCs shall respond to every Restricted and Unrestricted Report of sexual assault on a military installation, and the response shall be in person, unless otherwise requested by the victim. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(ii) Based on the locality, the SARC may ask the SAPR VA to respond and speak to the victim.

(A) There will be situations where a sexual assault victim receives medical care and a SAFE outside of a military installation under an MOU or MOA with local private or public sector entities. In these cases, pursuant to the MOU or MOA the SARC or SAPR VA shall be notified, and a SARC or SAPR VA shall respond.

(B) When contacted by the SARC or SAPR VA, a sexual assault victim can elect not to speak to the SARC or SAPR VA, or the sexual assault victim may ask to schedule an appointment at a later time to speak to the SARC or SAPR VA.

(iii) SARCs shall provide a response that recognizes the high prevalence of pre-existing trauma (prior to the present sexual assault incident) and empowers an individual to make informed decisions about all aspects in the reporting process and to access available resources.

(iv) SARCs shall provide a response that is gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented.

(v) SARCs shall offer appropriate referrals to sexual assault victims and facilitate access to referrals. Provide referrals at the request of the victim.

(A) Encourage sexual assault victims to follow-up with the referrals and facilitate these referrals, as appropriate.

(B) In order to competently facilitate referrals, inquire whether the victim is a Reservist or an NG member to ensure that victims are referred to the appropriate geographic location.

(7) Explain to the victim that the services of the SARC and SAPR VA are optional and these services may be declined, in whole or in part, at any time. The victim may decline advocacy services, even if the SARC or SAPR VA holds a position of higher rank or authority than the victim. Explain to victims the option of requesting a different SAPR VA (subject to availability, depending on locality staffing) or continuing without SAPR VA services.

(i) Explain the available reporting options to the victim.

(A) Assist the victim in filling out the DD Form 2910, where the victim elects to make a Restricted or Unrestricted Report. However, the victims, not the SARCs or SAPR VAs, must fill out the DD Form 2910. Explain that sexual assault victims have the right and ability to consult with an SVC/VLC before deciding whether to make a Restricted Report, Unrestricted Report, or no report at all. Additionally, the SARC or SAPR VA shall explain the eligibility requirements for an SVC/VLC, as well as the option to request SVC or VLC services even if the victim does not fall within the eligibility requirements.

(B) Inform the victim that the DD Form 2910 signed by the victim will be uploaded to DSAID and retained for 50 years in Unrestricted Reports. The DD Forms 2910 and 2911 filed in connection with the Restricted Report shall be retained for 50 years, in a manner that protects confidentiality.

(C) The SARC or SAPR VA shall inform the victim of any local or State sexual assault reporting requirements that may limit the possibility of Restricted Reporting. At the same time, the victims shall be briefed about the protections and exceptions to MRE 514.
