
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.6 Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.
####### e.g.,

(ii) Give the victim a hard copy of the DD Form 2910 with the victim's signature. Advise the victim to keep the copy of the DD Form 2910 and the DD Form 2911 in their personal permanent records as these forms may be used by the victim in other matters before other agencies (Department of Veterans Affairs) or for any other lawful purpose.

(iii) Explain SAFE confidentiality to victims and the confidentiality of the contents of the SAFE Kit. Inform the victim that information concerning the prosecution shall be provided to them. For further information see paragraph (aa) of Appendix A to this part.

(iv) Activate victim advocacy 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for all incidents of reported sexual assault occurring either on or off the installation involving Service members and other covered persons. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(v) Consult with command legal representatives, healthcare personnel, and MCIOs, (or when feasible, civilian law enforcement), to assess the potential impact of State laws or exceptions governing compliance with the Restricted Reporting option and develop or revise applicable MOUs and MOAs, as appropriate.

(vi) Collaborate with MTFs within their respective areas of responsibility to establish protocols and procedures to direct notification of the SARC and SAPR VA for all incidents of reported sexual assault and facilitate ongoing training of healthcare personnel on the roles and responsibilities of the SARC and SAPR VAs.

(vii) Collaborate with local private or public sector entities that provide medical care to Service members or TRICARE eligible beneficiaries who are sexual assault victims and a SAFE outside of a military installation through an MOU or MOA.

(viii) Establish protocols and procedures with these local private or public sector entities to facilitate direct notification of the SARC for all incidents of reported sexual assault and facilitate training of healthcare personnel of local private or public sector entities on the roles and responsibilities of SARCs and SAPR VAs, for Service members and persons covered by this policy.

(ix) Provide off installation referrals to civilian resources available to sexual assault victims, as needed.

(x) Document and track the services referred to and requested by the victim from the time of the initial report of a sexual assault through the final case disposition or until the victim no longer desires services.

(xi) Maintain in DSAID an account of the services referred to and requested by the victim for all reported sexual assault incidents, from medical treatment through counseling, and from the time of the initial report of a sexual assault through the final case disposition or until the victim no longer desires services. Should the victim return to the SARC or SAPR VA and request SAPR services after indicating that he or she no longer desired services, the case will be reopened and addressed at the CMG meeting.
