
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.6 Reporting options and sexual assault reporting procedures.
####### Certification.

(iii)(A) Provider must pass all selection and screening criteria.

(B) Provider must submit documentation by trainer that healthcare provider has successfully completed SAFE training and is competent to conduct SAFEs independently. Documentation can be in the form of a certificate or be recorded in an electronic medical training tracking system.

(C) Provider must obtain a letter of recommendation from her or his commander.

(D) Upon successful completion of the selection, training, and certification requirements, the designated medical certifying authority will issue the certification for competency. Certification is good for 3 years from date of issue and must be reassessed and renewed at the end of the 3-year period.

(3) In cases of MTFs that do not have an emergency department that operates 24 hours per day, require that a sexual assault forensic medical examiner be made available to a patient of the facility when a determination is made regarding the patient's need for the services of a sexual assault medical forensic examiner. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.

(i) The MOU or MOA will require that a SARC be notified and that SAFE Kits be collected. For further information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.

(ii) When the forensic examination is conducted at a civilian facility through an MOU or a MOA with the DoD, the requirements for the handling of the forensic kit will be explicitly addressed in the MOU or MOA. The MOU or MOA with the civilian facility will address the processes for contacting the SARC and for contacting the appropriate DoD agency responsible for accepting custody of the forensic kit.

(4) Require that MTFs that provide SAFEs for Service members or TRICARE eligible beneficiaries through an MOU or MOA with private or public sector entities verify initially and periodically that those entities meet or exceed standards of the recommendations for conducting forensic exams of adult sexual victims. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part. In addition, verify that as part of the MOU or MOA, a SARC or SAPR VA is notified and responds and meets with the victim in a timely manner.

(5) Require that medical providers providing healthcare to victims of sexual assault in remote areas or while deployed have access to the proper equipment for conducting forensic exams. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.

(6) Implement procedures to provide the victim information regarding the availability of a SAFE Kit, which the victim has the option of refusing. If performed in the MTF, the healthcare provider shall use a SAFE Kit and the most current edition of the DD Form 2911.

(7) Require that care provided to sexual assault victims shall be gender-responsive, culturally competent, and recovery-oriented.

(8) In the absence of a properly trained DoD healthcare provider, the victim shall be offered the option to be transported to a non-DoD healthcare provider for the SAFE Kit, if the victim wants a forensic exam. Victims who are not beneficiaries of the Military Healthcare System shall be advised that they can obtain a SAFE Kit through a local civilian healthcare provider at no cost. For further information see paragraphs (h) and (ff) of Appendix A to this part.
