
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.7 Case management for unrestricted reports of sexual assault.
####### Procedures.

(b)(1) The CMG members shall carefully consider and implement immediate, short-term, and long-term measures to help facilitate and assure the victim's well-being and recovery from the sexual assault. They will closely monitor the victim's progress and recovery and strive to protect the victim's privacy, ensuring only those with an official need to know have the victim's name and related details. Consequently, where possible, each case shall be reviewed independently, bringing in only those personnel associated with the case, as well as the CMG chair and co-chair.

(2) The CMG chair shall:

(i) Confirm that the SARCs and SAPR VAs have what they need to provide an effective SAPR response to victims.

(ii) Require an update of the status of each MPO.

(iii) If the victim has informed the SARC of an existing CPO, the chair shall require the SARC to inform the CMG of the existence of the CPO and its requirements.

(iv) After protective order documentation is presented at the CMG from the SARC or the SAPR VA, the DoD law enforcement agents at the CMG will document the information provided in their investigative case file, to include documentation for Reserve Component personnel in title 10 status.
