
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 103 - SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 103.7 Case management for unrestricted reports of sexual assault.
####### e.g.,

(v) At every CMG meeting, the CMG Chair will ask the CMG members if the victim, victim's family members, witnesses, bystanders (who intervened), SARCs and SAPR VAs, responders, or other parties to the incident have experienced any incidents of retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, or maltreatment. If any allegations are reported, the CMG Chair will forward the information to the proper authority or authorities (MCIO, Inspector General, MEO). Discretion may be exercised in disclosing allegations of retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, or maltreatment when such allegations involve parties to the CMG. Retaliation, reprisal, ostracism, or maltreatment allegations involving the victim, SARCs, and SAPR VAs will remain on the CMG agenda for status updates, until the victim's case is closed or until the allegation has been appropriately addressed.

(vi) The CMG chair will confirm that each victim receives a safety assessment as soon as possible. There will be a safety assessment capability. The CMG chair will identify installation personnel who have been trained and are able to perform a safety assessment of each sexual assault victim.

(vii) The CMG chair will, if it has not already been done, immediately stand up a multi-disciplinary High-Risk Response Team if a victim is assessed to be in a high-risk situation. The purpose and the responsibility of the High-Risk Response Team is to continually monitor the victim's safety, by assessing danger and developing a plan to manage the situation.

(viii) The High-Risk Response Team (HRRT) shall be chaired by the victim's immediate commander and, at a minimum, include the alleged offender's immediate commander; the victim's SARC and SAPR VA; the MCIO, the judge advocate, and the VWAP assigned to the case; victim's healthcare provider or mental health and counseling services provider; and the personnel who conducted the safety assessment. The responsibility of the HRRT members to attend the HRRT meetings and actively participate in them will not be delegated.
