
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 107 - PERSONAL SERVICES AUTHORITY FOR DIRECT HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
###### ยง 107.4 Policy.

(a) It is the policy of the Department of Defense that when in-house sources are insufficient to support the medical mission of the Military Departments, personal services contracts under 10 U.S.C. 1091 may be executed.

(b) It is the purpose of personal services contracts to facilitate mission accomplishment, maximize beneficiary access to military MTFs, maintain readiness capability, reduce use of the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS), and enhance quality of care by promoting the continuity of the patient/provider relationship.

(c) Personal services contractors shall be subject to the same quality assurance, credentialing processes, and other standards as those required of military health care providers. In addition, providers, other than para-professionals, must be licensed in accordance with State or host country requirements to perform the contract services.

(d) In establishing lines of authority and accountability, DoD supervisors may direct the activities of personal services contractors on the same basis as DoD employees. However, the rights, benefits, and compensation of personal services contractors shall be determined solely in accordance with the personal service contract.

(e) Requests for personal services contracts contemplating reimbursement at the maximum rate of basic pay and allowances under 10 U.S.C. 1091 shall be approved at the major command level. The 0-6 grade shall be used sparingly and subsequently will be subject to review.
