
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 108 - HEALTH CARE ELIGIBILITY UNDER THE SECRETARIAL DESIGNEE PROGRAM AND RELATED SPECIAL AUTHORITIES
###### ยง 108.4 Policy.
####### Invited Persons Accompanying the Overseas Force.

(e)The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the USD(P&R) may designate as eligible for space-available care from the Military Health System outside the United States those persons invited by the Department of Defense to accompany or visit the military force in overseas locations or invited to participate in DoD-sponsored morale, welfare, and recreation activities. This authority is limited to health care needs arising in the course of the invited activities. Separate approval is needed to continue health care initiated under this paragraph in MTFs in the United States.

(1) In the case of employees or affiliates of news organizations, all care provided under the authority of introductory paragraph (e) of this section is reimbursable. For other individuals designated as eligible under this paragraph (e), the designation may provide, to the extent allowed by law, for outpatient care on a non-reimbursable basis, and establish a case-by-case authority for waiver of reimbursement for inpatient care.

(2) This paragraph (e) does not apply to employees of the Executive Branch of the United States or personnel affiliated with contractors of the United States.
