
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 108 - HEALTH CARE ELIGIBILITY UNDER THE SECRETARIAL DESIGNEE PROGRAM AND RELATED SPECIAL AUTHORITIES
###### ยง 108.4 Policy.
####### U.S. Government Civilian Employees and Contractor Personnel.

(g)(1) Civilian employees of the Department of Defense and other government agencies, and employees of DoD contractors, and the dependents of such personnel are eligible for MTF care to the extent provided in DoD Instruction 1000.13.

(2) Occupational health care services provided to DoD employees under 5 U.S.C. 7901, authorities cited in DoD Instruction 6055.1,or under other authorities except 10 U.S.C. 1074(c) are not affected by this Instruction. The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the USD(P&R) may designate DoD civilian employees, applicants for employment, and personnel performing services for the Department of Defense under Federal contracts as eligible for occupational health care services required by the Department of Defense as a condition of employment or involvement in any particular assignment, duty, or undertaking.

(3) Any health care services provided by the Military Health System to employees of DoD non-appropriated fund instrumentalities shall be on a reimbursable basis.

(4) In the case of DoD civilian employees forward deployed in support of U.S. military personnel engaged in hostilities, eligibility for MTF care (in addition to all eligibility for programs administered by the Department of Labor Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP)) is as follows:

(i) Consistent with Policy Guidance for Provision of Medical Care to DoD Civilian Employees Injured or Wounded While Forward Deployed in Support of Hostilities,DoD civilian employees who become ill, contract diseases, or are injured or wounded while so deployed are eligible for medical evacuation or health care treatment and services in MTFs at the same level and scope provided to military personnel, all on a non-reimbursable basis, until returned to the United States.

(ii) DoD civilian employees who, subsequent to such deployment, and have been determined to have OWCP-compensable conditions are eligible for MTF care for such conditions, all on a non-reimbursable basis.

(iii) USD(P&R) may, under compelling circumstances, approve additional eligibility for care in MTFs for other U.S. Government civilian employees who become ill or injured while so deployed, or other DoD civilian employees overseas.
