
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 111 - TRANSITIONAL COMPENSATION FOR ABUSED DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 111.6 Procedures.
####### Payments.

(b)(1) Payments begin in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.

(2) Payments must continue for at least 12 months and no more than 36 months, as prescribed by the Secretary concerned. When the unserved portion of the Service member's obligated active duty service, as of the starting date of payment, is greater than 12 months and less than or equal to 36 months, payments continue for no less than the unserved portion.

(i) For enlisted Service members, obligated active duty service is the time remaining on their terms of enlistment.

(ii) For officers, obligated active duty service is indefinite unless an officer has a date of separation established. In that case, it is the time remaining until the date of separation.

(3) The amount of payment will be in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059. Partial month entitlements are pro-rated. If a recipient dies, arrears of payments are not paid.

(4) Payments will be stopped in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1059.

(i) Payments will end on the first day of the first month following the month in which the Secretary concerned notifies the recipient of such transitional compensation in writing that the payment of TC will stop.

(ii) Recipients are not required to repay amounts of TC received before the effective date payment is stopped, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section; however, TC may be recouped for erroneous payments or payments made based on false information provided.
