
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.3 Definitions.
####### Pay subject to involuntary allotment.

(c)For purposes of complying with 32 CFR part 112 and 5 U.S.C. 5520a(k), pay subject to involuntary allotment shall be determined by:

(1) Including:

(i) Basic pay but excluding reduction for education for education benefits under section 38 U.S.C. 1411 ("New G.I. Bill").

(ii) Special pay (including enlistment and reenlistment bonuses).

(iii) Incentive pay.

(iv) Accrued leave payments (basic pay portion only).

(v) Readjustment pay.

(vi) Severance pay (including disability severance pay).

(vii) Lump-sum Reserve bonus.

(viii) Inactive duty training pay.

(2) Excluding:

(i) Retired pay (including) disability retired pay).

(ii) Retainer pay.

(iii) Separation pay, Voluntary Separation Incentive (VSI), and Special Separation Benefit (SSB).

(iv) Allowances paid under titles 10 and 37 of the United States Code (e.g., Chapter 53 of title 10 and Chapter 7 of title 37, respectively) and other reimbursements for expenses incurred in connection with duty in the Military Service or allowances in lieu thereof.

(v) Payments not specifically enumerated in ยง 113.3(c)(1).

(3) After including the items in ยง 113.3(c)(1), subtracting the following pay items to compute the final earnings value of the pay subject to involuntary allotment:

(i) Federal and State employment and income tax withholding (amount limited only to that which is necessary to fulfill member's tax liability).

(ii) FICA tax.

(iii) Amounts mandatorily withheld for the United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home.

(iv) Deductions for the Servicemen's Group Life Insurance coverage.

(v) Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan.

(vi) Indebtedness to the United States.

(vii) Fines and forfeitures ordered by a court-martial or a commanding officer.

(viii) Amounts otherwise required by law to be deducted from a member's pay (except payments under 42 U.S.C. 659, 661, 662, and 665).
