
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.4 Policy.

(a) It is DoD policy under 32 CFR part 112 that procedures be established for the processing of debt complaints against members of the Military Services and involuntary allotments from the pay of members of the Military Services.

(b) An involuntary allotment shall not exceed the lesser of 25 percent of a member's pay subject to involuntary allotment or the maximum percentage of pay subject to garnishment proceedings under the applicable State law.

(c) The amount of an involuntary allotment under 32 CFR part 112 and this part when combined with deductions as a result of garnishments or statutory allotments for spousal support and child support under 42 U.S.C. 659, 661, 662, or 665, may not exceed the lesser of 25 percent of a member's pay subject to involuntary allotment or the maximum percentage of pay subject to garnishment proceedings under applicable State law. In any case in which the maximum percentage would be exceeded, garnishments and involuntary allotments for spousal and child support shall take precedence over involuntary allotments authorized under 32 CFR part 112 and this part. Involuntary allotments established under 32 CFR part 112 and this part shall be reduced or stopped as necessary to avoid exceeding the maximum percentage allowed.

(d) The Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1601-1614, 1631-1646, 1661-1666j, and 1667-1667e) prescribes the general disclosure requirements that must be met by those offering or extending consumer credit and Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226) prescribes the specific disclosure requirements for both open-end and installment credit transactions. In place of Federal Government requirements, State regulations apply to credit transactions when the Federal Reserve Board has determined that the State regulations impose substantially similar requirements and provide adequate enforcement measures. Commanding officers, with the assistance of judge advocates, should check regulations of the Federal Reserve Board to determine whether Federal or State laws and regulations govern.
