
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.6 Procedures.

(a) The following procedures apply to the processing of debt complaints against members of the Military Services.

(1) It is incumbent on those submitting indebtedness complaints to show that they have met the disclosure requirements of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1601-1614, 1631-1646, 1661-1666j, and 1667-1667e) and Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226), and that they complied with the Standards of Fairness (appendix B to this part).

(2) Creditors subject to Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226), and assignees claiming thereunder, shall submit with their debt complaint an executed copy of the Certificate of Compliance (appendix A to this part), and a true copy of the general and specific disclosures provided the member of the Military Service as required by the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 note, 1601-1614, 1631-1646, 1661-1666j, and 1667-1667e). Debt complaints that request assistance but do not meet these requirements will be returned without action to the claimant.

(3) A creditor not subject to Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR 226), such as a public utility company, shall submit with the request a certificate that no interest, finance charge, or other fee is in excess of that permitted by the law of the State in which the obligation was incurred.

(4) A foreign-owned company having debt complaints shall submit with its request a true copy of the terms of the debt (English translation) and shall certify that it has subscribed to the Standards of Fairness (appendix B to this part).

(5) Debt complaints that meet the requirements of this part shall be processed by Department of Defense Components. "Processed" means that Heads of the Department of Defense Components, or designees, shall:

(i) Review all available facts surrounding the transaction forming the basis of the complaint, including the member's legal rights and obligations, and any defenses or counterclaims the member may have.

(ii) Advise the member concerned that:

(A) Just financial obligations are expected to be paid in a proper and timely manner, and what the member should do to comply with that policy;

(B) Financial and legal counseling services are available under DoD Directive 1344.7in resolving indebtedness; and

(C) That a failure to pay a just debt may result in the creditor obtaining a judgment from a court that could form the basis for collection of pay from the member pursuant to an involuntary allotment.

(iii) If a member acknowledges a debt as a result of creditor contact with a DoD Component, advise the member that assistance and counseling may be available from the on-base military banking office, the credit union serving the military field of membership, or other available military community service organizations.

(iv) Direct the appropriate commander to advise the claimant that:

(A) Those aspects of DoD policy prescribed in 32 CFR part 112.4, are pertinent to the particular claim in question; and

(B) The member concerned has been advised of his or her obligations on the claim.

(v) The commander's response to the claimant shall not undertake to arbitrate any disputed debt, or admit or deny the validity of the claim. Under no circumstances shall the response indicate whether any action has been taken, or will be taken, against the member as a result of the complaint.

(b) The following procedures apply to the processing of involuntary allotments from the pay of members of the Military Services.
