
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.6 Procedures.
####### Involuntary allotment application.

(1)(i) Regardless of the Service Affiliation of the member involved, with the exception of members of the Coast Guard an application to establish an involuntary allotment from the pay of a member of the Military Services shall be made by sending a completed DD Form 2653, "Involuntary Allotment Application" (appendix C to this part) to the appropriate address listed below. Applications sent to any other address shall be returned without action to the applicant.

(ii) Each application must include a copy of the final judgment certified by the clerk of court and such other documents as may be required by ยง 113.6(b)(1)(iv).

(iii) A garnishment summons or order is insufficient to satisfy the final judgment requirement of ยง 113.6(b)(1)(ii) and is not required to apply for an involuntary allotment under this part.

(iv) Involuntary allotment applications must contain the following information, certifications, and acknowledgment:

(A) The full name, social security number, and branch of Service of the military member against whose pay an involuntary allotment is sought. Although not required, inclusion of the member's current duty station and duty address on the application form will facilitate processing of the application.

(B) The applicant's full name and address. If the applicant is not a natural person, the application must be signed by an individual with the authority to act on behalf of such entity. If the allotment is to be in favor of a person other than the original judgment holder, proof of the right to succeed to the interest of the original judgment holder is required and must be attached to the application.

(C) The dollar amount of the judgment. Additionally, if the judgment awarded interest, the total dollar amount of the interest on the judgment accrued to the date of application.

(D) A certification that the judgment has not been amended, superseded, set aside, or satisfied; or, if the judgment has been satisfied in part, the extent to which the judgment remains unsatisfied.

(E) A certification that the judgment was issued while the member was not on active duty (in appropriate cases). If the judgment was issued while the member was on active duty, a certification that the member was present or represented by an attorney of the member's choosing in the proceedings, or if the member was not present or represented by an attorney of the member's choosing, that the judgment complies with the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended (50 U.S.C. appendix sections 501-591).

(F) A certification that the member's pay could be garnished under applicable State law and section 5520a(k) of the United States Code, if the member were a civilian employee.

(G) A certification that, to the knowledge of the applicant, the debt has not been discharged in bankruptcy, nor has the member filed for protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws of the United States.

(H) A certification that if the judgment is satisfied prior to the collection of the total amount through the involuntary allotment process, the applicant will provide prompt notice that the involuntary allotment must be discontinued.

(I) A certification that if the member overpays the amount owed on the judgment, the applicant shall refund the amount of overpayment to the member within 30 days of discovery or notice of the overpayment, whichever, is earlier, and that if the applicant fails to repay the member, the applicant understands he or she may be denied the right to collect by involuntary allotment on other debt reduced to judgments.

(J) Acknowledgment that as a condition of application, the applicant agrees that neither the United States, nor any disbursing official or Federal employee whose duties include processing involuntary allotment applications and payments, shall be liable for any payment or failure to make payment from moneys due or payable by the United States to any person pursuant to any application made in accordance herewith.

(v) The original and three copies of the application and supporting documents must be submitted by the applicant to DFAS.

(vi) A complete "application package" (the DD Form 2653, supporting documentation, and three copies of the application and supporting documents), is required for processing of any request to establish an involuntary allotment pursuant to this part and 32 CFR part 112.

(vii) Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this part shall not be processed. If an application is ineligible for processing, the application package shall be returned to the applicant with an explanation of the deficiency. In cases involving repeated false certifications by an applicant, the designated DFAS official may refuse to accept or process additional applications by that applicant for such period of time as the official deems appropriate to deter against such violations in the future.
