
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.6 Procedures.
####### Processing of involuntary allotment applications.

(2)(i) Promptly upon receipt of DD Form 2653 (Appendix C to this part), the designated DFAS official shall review the "application package" to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. If the application package is complete, the DFAS official shall:

(A) Complete Section I of DD Form 2654, "Involuntary Allotment Notice and Processing" (Appendix D to this part), by inserting the name, social security number, rank, and branch of service of the military member against whom an application for involuntary allotment is being processed. Additionally, the DFAS official shall provide the due date for receipt of a response at DFAS. The due date shall be 90 days from the date DFAS mails the DD Form 2654 to the commander and member concerned as provided for in ยง 113.6(b)(2)(i)(B).

(B) Mail one copy of the application package to the member and two copies of the application package, along with DD Form 2654, to the commander of the military member or other official as designated by the Military Service concerned during times of war, national emergency, deployment, or other similar circumstances, who may act for the commander, provided the Military Service concerned has provided DFAS with the name or position of the official and the appropriate address (hereinafter, the meaning of the term "commander" includes such other official).

(C) Within 60 days of mailing the copies of the application package and DD Form 2654, DFAS shall provide notice to the member and the member's commander that automatic processing of the involuntary allotment application shall occur if a response (including notice of an approved extension as authorized in ยง 113.6(b)(2)(iii)(B) and (F), is not received by the due date specified in Section I of DD Form 2654. In the absence of a response, DFAS may automatically process the involuntary allotment application on the fifteenth calendar day after the date a response was due. When DFAS has received notice of an extension, automatic processing shall not begin until the fifteenth calendar day after the approved extension date.

(D) Retain the original of the application package and DD Form 2654.

(ii) Upon receipt of an application, the commander shall determine if the member identified in Section I of DD Form 2654 is assigned or attached to the commander's unit and available to respond to the involuntary allotment application. If the member is not assigned or attached, or not available to respond (e.g., retired, in a prisoner of war status, or in a missing in action status), the commander will promptly complete Section II of DD Form 2654 and attach appropriate documentation supporting the determination. The commander will then mail the application package and DD Form 2654 to DFAS. Section II shall also be used by the commander to notify DFAS of extensions beyond the due date for a response contained in Section I of DD Form 2654. When such extensions are authorized, the commander will complete Section II, make a copy of Sections I and II, and promptly mail the copy to DFAS.

(iii) Within 5 days of receipt of an application package and DD Form 2654 from the designated DFAS official, the commander shall notify the member of the receipt of the application, provide the member a copy of the entire application package, and counsel the member using and completing Section III of DD Form 2654 about the following:

(A) That an application for the establishment of an involuntary allotment for the lesser of 25 percent of the member's pay subject to involuntary allotment or the maximum percentage of pay subject to garnishment proceedings under the applicable State law has been received.

(B) That the member has 15 calendar days from the date of receipt of the commander's notice to complete Section IV of DD Form 2654. That for good cause shown, the commander may grant an extension of reasonable time (normally not exceeding 30 calendar days) to submit a response. That during times of deployment, war, national emergency, assignment outside the United States, hospitalization, or other similar situations that prevent the member from obtaining necessary evidence or from responding in a timely manner, extensions exceeding 30 calendar days may be granted. That if the member fails to respond within the time allowed, the commander will note the member's failure to respond in Section V of DD Form 2654 and send the form to DFAS for appropriate action.

(C) That the member's response will either consent to the involuntary allotment or contest it.

(D) That the member may contest the application for any one of the following reasons:
