
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.6 Procedures.
####### 7

() Or other appropriate reasons that must be clearly specified and explained by the member.

(E) That, if the member contests the involuntary allotment, the member shall provide evidence (documentary or otherwise) in support thereof. Furthermore, that any evidence submitted by the member may be disclosed to the applicant for the involuntary allotment.

(F) That the member may consult with a legal assistance attorney, if reasonably available, or a civilian attorney at no expense to the government. That if a legal assistance attorney is available, the member should immediately arrange for an appointment. That the member may request a reasonable delay from the commander to obtain legal assistance (in cases where an approved delay will cause DFAS to receive the member's response after the due date identified in Section I of DD Form 2654, the commander must immediately notify the designated DFAS official of the delay, the date for an expected response, and the reason for the delay by completing Section II of DD Form 2654 and forwarding a copy of Sections I and II to DFAS). Additionally, that requests for extensions of time based on the need for legal assistance shall be denied to members who fail to exercise due diligence in seeking such assistance.

(G) That if the member contests the involuntary allotment on the grounds that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from the judicial proceeding at which the judgment was rendered, then the member's commander shall review and make the final determination on this contention, and notify the designated DFAS official of the commander's decision by completing Section V of DD Form 2654 and forwarding the form to DFAS.
