
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.6 Procedures.
####### 2

() Additionally, consideration shall be given to whether the commander at the time determined the military duties in question to be of such paramount importance that they prevented making the member available to attend the judicial proceedings, or rendered the member unable to timely respond to process, motions, pleadings, or orders of the court.

(H) That if the member contests the involuntary allotment on any basis other than exigencies of military duty, the application package and DD Form 2654 shall be returned to the commander who shall forward it to the designated DFAS official for appropriate action.

(I) That if the member fails to respond to the commander within the time allowed under ยง 113.6(b)(2)(iii)(B), the commander shall notify the designated DFAS official of the member's failure to respond by completing Section V of DD Form 2654, and forwarding the form to DFAS.

(iv) After counseling the member in accordance with ยง 113.6(b)(2)(iii)(A)-(I), the commander shall:

(A) Date and sign Section III of DD Form 2654.

(B) Obtain the member's acknowledgment of counseling by having the member sign the appropriate space on Section III of DD Form 2654.

(C) Determine if the member consents to the involuntary allotment or needs the time authorized under this part to review the application package and take appropriate action. If the member consents to the involuntary allotment, the commander shall direct the member to appropriately complete Section IV of DD Form 2654. The commander must then complete the appropriate item in Section V and promptly forward the completed DD Form 2654 to the designated DFAS official.

(D) Complete the appropriate items in Section V of DD Form 2654 when the member fails to respond within the time authorized for a response, or asserts that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from an appearance in the judicial proceeding upon which the Involuntary Allotment Application is sought.
