
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 113 - INDEBTEDNESS PROCEDURES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
###### ยง 113.6 Procedures.
####### Payments.

(3)(i) Payment of an approved involuntary allotment under 32 CFR part 112 and this part shall commence within 30 days after the designated DFAS official has approved the involuntary allotment.

(ii) Payments under this part shall not be required more frequently than once each month, and the designated official shall not be required to vary normal pay and disbursement cycles.

(iii) If the designated DFAS official receives several applications on the same member of a Military Service, payments shall be satisfied on a first-come, first-served basis.

(iv) Payments shall continue until the judgment is satisfied or until canceled or suspended.

(A) DFAS shall collect the total judgment, including interest when awarded by the judgment. Within 30 days following collection of the amount of the judgment, including interest as annotated by the applicant in Section I of DD Form 2654, the applicant may submit a final statement of interest that accrued during the pay-off period. This final statement of interest request must be accompanied by a statement of account showing how the applicant computed the interest amount. DFAS will collect this post-application interest provided it is an amount owed pursuant to the judgment. DFAS shall not accept any further interest requests.

(B) Interest or other costs associated with the debt forming the basis for the judgment, but not included as an amount awarded by the judgment, shall not be paid to applicants for involuntary allotments.

(v) If the member is found not to be entitled to money due from or payable by the Military Services, the designated official shall return the application and advise the applicant that no money is due from or payable by the Military Service to the member. When it appears that pay subject to an involuntary allotment is exhausted temporarily or otherwise unavailable, the applicant shall be told why and for how long that money is unavailable, if known. Involuntary allotments shall be canceled on or before the date a member retires, is discharged, or is released from active duty. The designated DFAS official shall notify the applicant of the reason for cancellation.

(vi) Upon receiving notice from an applicant that a judgment upon which an involuntary allotment is based has been satisfied, vacated, modified, or set aside, the designated DFAS official shall promptly adjust or discontinue the involuntary allotment.

(vii) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) may, in DoD 7000.14-RVolume 7, Part A, designate the priority to be given to involuntary allotments pursuant to 32 CFR part 112 and this part, among the deductions and collections taken from a member's pay, except that they may not give precedence over deductions required to arrive at a member's disposable pay for garnishments or involuntary allotments authorized by statute for alimony and child support payments. In the absence of a contrary designation by the Comptroller, all other lawful deductions (except voluntary allotments by the member) and collections shall take precedence over these involuntary allotments.
