
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)):

(1) Establishes overall policy for victim and witness assistance and monitors compliance with this part.

(2) Approves procedures developed by the Secretaries of the Military Departments that implement and are consistent with this part.

(3) Maintains the DoD Victim Assistance Leadership Council, in accordance with DoD Instruction 6400.07, which advises the Secretary of Defense on policies and practices related to the provision of victim assistance and provides a forum that promotes efficiencies, coordinates victim assistance-related policies, and assesses the implementation of victim assistance standards across the DoD's victim assistance-related programs.

(4) Submits an annual report to the Office for Victims of Crime, Department of Justice, identifying the number of specified notifications made to victims and witnesses of alleged crimes.

(b) The Director, DoD Human Resources Activity, through the Defense Manpower Data Center, and under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R), assists in formulating a data collection mechanism to track and report victim notifications from initial contact through investigation to disposition, to include prosecution, confinement, and release.

(c) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DoD IG):

(1) Establishes investigative policy and performs appropriate oversight reviews of the management of the Victim Witness Assistance Program (VWAP) by the DoD military criminal investigative organizations (MCIOs). This is not intended to substitute for the routine managerial oversight of the program provided by the MCIOs, the USD(P&R), the DoD Component heads, the DoD Component responsible officials, or the local responsible officials.

(2) Investigates and oversees DoD Component Inspector General investigations of allegations or reprisal for making or preparing to make or being perceived as making or preparing to make a protected communication, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1034.

(d) The DoD Component heads:

(1) Ensure compliance with this part, and establish policies and procedures to implement the VWAP within their DoD Components.
