
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.5 Responsibilities.
####### http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2706.pdf

(2) Designate the DoD Component responsible official for the VWAP, who will report annually to the USD(P&R) using DD Form 2706, "Victim and Witness Assistance Annual Report" (available at)

(3) Provide for the assignment of personnel in sufficient numbers to enable those programs identified in the 10 U.S.C. 113 note to be carried out effectively.

(4) Designate a central repository for confinee information for each Military Service, and establish procedures to ensure victims who so elect are notified of changes in inmate status.

(5) Maintain a Victim and Witness Assistance Council, when practicable, at each military installation, to ensure victim and witness service providers follow an interdisciplinary approach. These providers may include chaplains, sexual assault prevention and response personnel, family advocacy personnel, military treatment facility health care providers and emergency room personnel, family service center personnel, military equal opportunity personnel, judge advocates, SVC/VLCs, unit commanding officers, corrections personnel, and other persons designated by the Secretaries of the Military Departments.

(6) Maintain training programs to ensure Victim Witness Assistance Program (VWAP) providers receive instruction to assist them in complying with this part. Training programs will include specialized training for VWAP personnel assigned to the SVIP capability, in accordance with ยง 114.6(c).

(7) Designate local responsible officials in writing in accordance with Military Service regulations and ยง 114.6(a)(1).

(8) Maintain oversight procedures to ensure establishment of an integrated support system capable of providing the services outlined in ยง 114.6, and meet the competency, ethical, and foundational standards established in DoD Instruction 6400.07. Such oversight may include coverage by DoD Component Inspectors General, staff assistance visits, surveys, and status reports.

(9) Establish mechanisms for ensuring that victims are notified of and afforded the rights specified in the UCMJ, including the rights specified in Article 6b of the UCMJ (10 U.S.C. 806b) and R.C.M. 306.

(10) Establish mechanisms for the enforcement of the rights specified in the UCMJ, including mechanisms for the application for such rights and for consideration and disposition of applications for such rights. At a minimum, such enforcement mechanisms will include the designation of an authority within each Military Service to receive and investigate complaints relating to the provision or violation of such rights and the establishment of disciplinary sanctions for responsible military and civilian personnel who wantonly fail to comply with the requirements relating to such rights.
