
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.6 Procedures.
####### Comprehensive information and services to be provided to victims and witnesses,Rights of crime victims.

(b)-(1)Personnel directly engaged in the prevention, detection, investigation, and disposition of offenses, to include courts-martial, including law enforcement and legal personnel, commanders, trial counsel, and staff judge advocates, will ensure that victims are accorded their rights in accordance with Article 6b of UCMJ. A crime victim has the right to:

(i) Be reasonably protected from the accused offender.

(ii) Be provided with reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of:

(A) A public hearing concerning the continuation of confinement before the trial of the accused.

(B) A preliminary hearing pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ relating to the offense.

(C) A court-martial relating to the offense.

(D) A public proceeding of the Military Department Clemency and Parole Board hearing relating to the offense.

(E) The release or escape of the accused, unless such notice may endanger the safety of any person.

(iii) Be present at, and not be excluded from any public hearing or proceeding described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, unless the military judge or preliminary hearing officer of a hearing conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ determines, after receiving clear and convincing evidence, that testimony by the victim would be materially altered if the victim observed that hearing or proceeding.

(iv) Be reasonably heard, personally or through counsel at:

(A) A public hearing concerning the continuation of confinement before the court-martial of the accused.

(B) Preliminary hearings conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ and court-martial proceedings relating to Rules 412, 513, and 514 of the Military Rules of Evidence (M.R.E.) or regarding other rights provided by statute, regulation, or case law.

(C) A public sentencing hearing relating to the offense.

(D) A public Military Department Clemency and Parole Board hearing relating to the offense. A victim may make a personal appearance before the Military Department Clemency and Parole Board or submit an audio, video, or written statement.

(v) Confer with the attorney for the U.S. Government in the case. This will include the reasonable right to confer with the attorney for the U.S. Government at any proceeding described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(A) Crime victims who are eligible for legal assistance may consult with a military legal assistance attorney in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(B) Victims of an alleged offense under Articles 120, 120a, 120b, or 120c or forcible sodomy under the UCMJ or attempts to commit such offenses under Article 80 of the UCMJ, who are eligible for legal assistance per Military Department or National Guard Bureau policies or in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044 or 1044e, may consult with a SVC/VLC in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Victims of these covered alleged offenses shall be informed by a sexual assault response coordinator (SARC), victim advocate, victim witness liaison, military criminal investigator, trial counsel, or other local responsible official that they have the right to consult with a SVC/VLC as soon as they seek assistance from the individual in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1565b, and as otherwise authorized by Military Department and National Guard Bureau policy.

(C) All victims may also elect to seek the advice of a private attorney, at their own expense.

(vi) Receive restitution as provided in accordance with State and Federal law.

(vii) Proceedings free from unreasonable delay.

(viii) Be treated with fairness and respect for his or her dignity and privacy.

(ix) Express his or her views to the commander or convening authority as to disposition of the case.

(x) Be prevented from, or charged for, receiving a medical forensic examination.

(xi) Have a sexual assault evidence collection kit or its probative contents preserved, without charge.

(xii) Be informed of any result of a sexual assault evidence collection kit, including a DNA profile match, toxicology report, or other information collected as part of a medical forensic examination, if such disclosure would not impede or compromise an ongoing investigation.

(xiii) Be informed in writing of policies governing the collection and preservation of a sexual assault evidence collection kit.

(xiv) Upon written request, receive written notification from the appropriate official with custody not later than 60 days before the date of the intended destruction or disposal.

(xv) Upon written request, be granted further preservation of the kit or its probative contents.

(xvi) Express a preference regarding whether the offense should be prosecuted by court-martial or in a civilian court with jurisdiction over the offense (for a victim of an alleged sex-related offense that occurs in the United States).

(A) Victims expressing a preference for prosecution of the offense in a civilian court shall have the civilian authority with jurisdiction over the offense notified of the victim's preference for civilian prosecution by the convening authority.

(B) The convening authority shall notify the victim of any decision by the civilian authority to prosecute or not prosecute the offense in a civilian court, if the convening authority learns of any decision.
