
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2701.pdf

(A) The DD Form 2701, "Initial Information for Victims and Witnesses of Crime" (available at) or computer-generated equivalent will be used as a handout to convey basic information. Specific points of contact will be recorded on the appropriate form authorized for use by the particular Military Service.

(B) Proper completion of this form serves as evidence that the local responsible official or designee, law enforcement officer, or criminal investigative officer notified the victim or witness of his or her rights, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The date the form is given to the victim or witness shall be recorded by the delivering official. This serves as evidence the victim or witness was timely notified of his or her statutory rights.

(ii) The local responsible official will explain the form to victims and witnesses at the earliest opportunity. This will include:

(A) Information about available military and civilian emergency medical and social services, victim advocacy services for victims of domestic violence or sexual assault, and, when necessary, assistance in securing such services.

(B) Information about restitution or other relief a victim may be entitled to, and the manner in which such relief may be obtained.

(C) Information to victims of intra-familial abuse offenses on the availability of limited transitional compensation benefits and possible entitlement to some of the active duty Service member's retirement benefits pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1059 and 1408 and 32 CFR part 111.

(D) Information about public and private programs available to provide counseling, treatment, and other support, including available compensation through Federal, State, and local agencies.

(E) Information about the prohibition against intimidation and harassment of victims and witnesses, and arrangements for the victim or witness to receive reasonable protection from threat, harm, or intimidation from an accused offender and from people acting in concert with or under the control of the accused offender.

(F) Information concerning military and civilian protective orders, as appropriate.

(G) Information about the military criminal justice process, the role of the victim or witness in the process, and how the victim or witness can obtain additional information concerning the process and the case in accordance with section 1704 of Public Law 113-66. This includes an explanation of:
