
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.6 Procedures.
####### Information and services to be provided concerning the prosecution of a crime.,http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2702.pdf

(4)(i) The DD Form 2702, "Court-Martial Information for Victims and Witnesses of Crime" (available at) will be used as a handout to convey basic information about the court-martial process. The date it is given to the victim or witness shall be recorded by the delivering official. If applicable, the following will be explained and provided by the U.S. Government attorney, or designee, to victims and witnesses:

(A) Notification of crime victims' rights, to include the victim's right to express views as to disposition of the case to the responsible commander and convening authority.

(B) Notification of the victim's right to seek the advice of an attorney with respect to his or her rights as a crime victim pursuant to Federal law and DoD policy. This includes the right of service members and their dependents to consult a military legal assistance attorney in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section or a SVC/VLC in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(C) Consultation concerning the decisions to prefer or not prefer charges against the accused offender and the disposition of the offense if other than a trial by court-martial.

(D) Consultation concerning the decision to refer or not to refer the charges against the accused offender to trial by court-martial and notification of the decision to pursue or not pursue court-martial charges against the accused offender.

(E) Notification of the initial appearance of the accused offender before a reviewing officer or military judge at a public pretrial confinement hearing or at a preliminary hearing in accordance with Article 32 of the UCMJ.

(F) Notification of the release of the suspected offender from pretrial confinement.

(G) Explanation of the court-martial process.

(H) Before any court proceedings (as defined to include preliminary hearings conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ, pretrial hearings conducted pursuant to Article 39(a) of the UCMJ, trial, and presentencing hearings), help with locating available services such as transportation, parking, child care, lodging, and courtroom translators or interpreters that may be necessary to allow the victim or witness to participate in court proceedings.

(I) During the court proceedings, a private waiting area out of the sight and hearing of the accused and defense witnesses. In the case of proceedings conducted aboard ship or in a deployed environment, provide a private waiting area to the greatest extent practicable.

(J) Notification of the scheduling, including changes and delays, of a preliminary hearing conducted pursuant to Article 32 of the UCMJ, and each court proceeding the victim is entitled to or required to attend will be made without delay. On request of a victim or witness whose absence from work or inability to pay an account is caused by the alleged crime or cooperation in the investigation or prosecution, the employer or creditor of the victim or witness will be informed of the reasons for the absence from work or inability to make timely payments on an account. This requirement does not create an independent entitlement to legal assistance or a legal defense against claims of indebtedness.

(K) Notification of the recommendation of a preliminary hearing officer when an Article 32 preliminary hearing is held.

(L) Consultation concerning any decision to dismiss charges or to enter into a pretrial agreement.

(M) Notification of the disposition of the case, to include the acceptance of a plea of "guilty," the rendering of a verdict, the withdrawal or dismissal of charges, or disposition other than court-martial, to specifically include non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ, administrative processing or separation, or other administrative actions.

(N) Notification to victims of the opportunity to present to the court at sentencing, in compliance with applicable law and regulations, a statement of the impact of the crime on the victim, including financial, social, psychological, and physical harm suffered by the victim. The right to submit a victim impact statement is limited to the sentencing phase and does not extend to the providence (guilty plea) inquiry before findings.

(O) Notification of the offender's sentence and general information regarding minimum release date, parole, clemency, and mandatory supervised release.

(P) Notification of the opportunity to receive a copy of proceedings. The convening authority or subsequent responsible official must authorize release of a copy of the record of trial without cost to a victim of sexual assault as defined in R.C.M. 1104 of the MCM and Article 54(e) of the UCMJ. Victims of offenses other than sexual assault, and witnesses of any offenses, may also receive a copy of the record of trial, without cost, as determined by the Military Departments, which may be on a case-by-case basis, in categories of cases, or on the basis of particular criteria, for example, when it might lessen the physical, psychological, or financial hardships suffered as a result of a criminal act.

(ii) After court proceedings, the local responsible official will take appropriate action to ensure that property of a victim or witness held as evidence is safeguarded and returned as expeditiously as possible.
