
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.6 Procedures.
####### Special victim investigation and prosecution (SVIP) capability.

(c)(1) In accordance with DTM 14-003, section 573 of Public Law 112-239, and DoD Instruction 5505.19, the Military Services will maintain a distinct, recognizable group of professionals to provide effective, timely, and responsive worldwide victim support, and a capability to support the investigation and prosecution of special victim offenses within the respective Military Departments.

(2) Covered special victim offenses include:

(i) Unrestricted reports of adult sexual assault.

(ii) Unrestricted reports of domestic violence involving sexual assault and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm.

(iii) Child abuse involving child sexual abuse and/or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm.

(3) Military Service SVIP programs will include, at a minimum, specially trained and selected:

(i) Investigators from within MCIOs of the Military Departments.

(ii) Judge advocates to serve as prosecutors.

(iii) VWAP personnel.

(iv) Paralegal or administrative legal support personnel.

(4) Each Military Service will maintain standards for the selection, training, and certification of personnel assigned to provide this capability. At a minimum, SVIP training must:

(i) Focus on the unique dynamics of sexual assault, aggravated domestic violence, and child abuse cases.

(ii) Promote methods of interacting with and supporting special victims to ensure their rights are understood and respected.

(iii) Focus on building advanced litigation, case management, and technical skills.

(iv) Ensure that all SVIP legal personnel understand the impact of trauma and how this affects an individual's behavior and the memory of a traumatic incident when interacting with a victim.

(v) Train SVIP personnel to identify any safety concerns and specific needs of victims.

(vi) Ensure SVIP personnel understand when specially trained pediatric forensic interviewers are required to support the investigation and prosecution of complex child abuse and child sexual abuse cases.

(5) Each Military Service will maintain and periodically review measures of performance and effectiveness to objectively assess Service programs, policies, training, and services. At a minimum, these Service-level review measures will include:

(i) Percentage of all preferred court-martial cases that involve special victim offenses in each fiscal year.

(ii) Percentage of special victim offense courts-martial tried by, or with the direct advice and assistance of, a specially trained prosecutor.

(iii) Compliance with DoD VWAP informational, notification, and reporting requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section, to ensure victims are consulted with and regularly updated by special victim capability legal personnel.

(iv) Percentage of specially trained prosecutors and other legal support personnel having received additional and advanced training in topical areas.

(6) The Military Services will also consider victim feedback on effectiveness of special victim prosecution and legal support services and recommendations for possible improvements, as provided in DoD survivor experience surveys or other available feedback mechanisms. This information will be used by the Military Services to gain a greater understanding of the reasons why a victim elected to participate or declined to participate at trial, and whether SVIP, VWAP, and other legal support services had any positive impact on this decision.

(7) Designated SVIP capability personnel will collaborate with local DoD SARCs, sexual assault prevention and response victim advocates, Family Advocacy Program (FAP) managers, and domestic abuse victim advocates during all stages of the military justice process to ensure an integrated capability.

(8) To support this capability, active liaisons shall be established at the installation level with these organizations and key individuals:

(i) Local military and civilian law enforcement agencies.

(ii) SARCs.

(iii) Victim advocates.

(iv) FAP managers.

(v) Chaplains.

(vi) Sexual assault forensic examiners and other medical and mental health care providers.

(vii) Unit commanding officers.

(viii) Other persons designated by the Secretaries of the Military Departments necessary to support special victims.

(9) In cases of adult sexual assault the staff judge advocate or designated representative of the responsible legal office will participate in case management group meetings, in accordance with 32 CFR part 105, on a monthly basis to review individual cases. Cases involving victims who are assaulted by a spouse or intimate partner will be reviewed by FAP.
