
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/640006p.pdf

(10) The staff judge advocate or designated representative of the responsible legal office will participate in FAP case review or incident determination meetings of domestic violence, spouse or intimate partner sexual assault, and child abuse cases in accordance with DoD Instruction 6400.06, "Domestic Abuse Involving DoD Military and Certain Affiliated Personnel" (available at).

(11) In the case of a victim who is under 18 years of age and not a member of the Military Services, or who is incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, the legal guardians of the victim or the representatives of the victim's estate, family members, or any other person designated as suitable by proper authority, may assume the victim's legal rights. Under no circumstances will an individual designated as representative have been accused of any crime against the victim.

(i) The Secretaries of the Military Departments may publish additional guidance or regulation regarding who, before referral, may designate an appropriate representative, such as the convening authority or other qualified local responsible official.

(ii) In making a decision to appoint a representative, the designating authority should consider:

(A) The age and maturity, relationship to the victim.

(B) The physical proximity to the victim.

(C) The costs incurred in effecting the appointment.

(D) The willingness of the proposed designee to serve in such a role.

(E) The previous appointment of a guardian by a court of competent jurisdiction or appropriate designating authority.

(F) The preference of the victim, if known.

(G) Any potential delay in any proceeding that may be caused by a specific appointment.

(H) Any other relevant information.

(iii) The representative, legal guardian, or equivalent of a victim who is eligible, or in the case of a deceased victim, was eligible at the time of death for legal assistance provided by SVC/VLC, may elect legal representation for a SVC/VLC on behalf of the victim.

(iv) A military judge's responsibilities for designating a representative are listed in R.C.M. 801(a)(6).

(v) In the absence of an appointment of a legal representative, the victim may exercise his/her own legal and regulatory rights, as described herein. Where an appointment is required or discretionary, nothing in this policy precludes a victim from being appointed as his/her own legal representative, as appropriate.
