
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 114 - VICTIM AND WITNESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 114.6 Procedures.
####### Attorney-client information and services.

(2)The types of legal services provided by SVC/VLC programs in each Military Service will include:

(i) Legal consultation regarding the VWAP, including:

(A) The rights and benefits afforded the victim.

(B) The role of the VWAP liaison.

(C) The nature of communication made to the VWAP liaison in comparison to communication made to a SVC/VLC or a legal assistance attorney pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1044.

(ii) Legal consultation regarding the responsibilities and support provided to the victim by the SARC, a unit or installation sexual assault victim advocate, or domestic abuse advocate, to include any privileges that may exist regarding communications between those persons and the victim.

(iii) Legal consultation regarding the potential for civil litigation against other parties (other than the DoD).

(iv) Legal consultation regarding the military justice system, including, but not limited to:

(A) The roles and responsibilities of the military judge, trial counsel, the defense counsel, and military criminal investigators.

(B) Any proceedings of the military justice process in which the victim may observe or participate in person or through his or her SVC/VLC.

(v) Accompanying or representing the victim at any proceedings when necessary and appropriate, including interviews, in connection with the reporting, investigation, and prosecution of the alleged sex-related offense.

(vi) Legal consultation regarding eligibility and requirements for services available from appropriate agencies or offices for emotional and mental health counseling and other medical services.

(vii) Legal representation or consultation and assistance:

(A) In personal civil legal matters in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044.

(B) In any proceedings of the military justice process in which a victim can participate as a witness or other party.

(C) In understanding the availability of, and obtaining any protections offered by, civilian and military protecting or restraining orders.

(D) In understanding the eligibility and requirements for, and obtaining, any available military and veteran benefits, such as transitional compensation benefits found in 10 U.S.C. 1059, 32 CFR part 111, "Transitional Compensation for Abused Dependents," and other State and Federal victims' compensation programs.

(E) The victim's rights and options at trial, to include the option to state a preference to decline participation or withdraw cooperation as a witness and the potential consequences of doing so.

(viii) Legal representation or consultation regarding the potential criminal liability of the victim stemming from or in relation to the circumstances surrounding the alleged sex-related offense (collateral misconduct), regardless of whether the report of that offense is restricted or unrestricted in accordance with 32 CFR part 105. Victims may also be referred to the appropriate defense services organization for consultation on the potential criminal implications of collateral misconduct.

(ix) Other legal assistance as the Secretary of Defense or the Secretaries of the Military Departments may authorize.
