
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.5 Information collections.
####### DoD collection.,https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd0254.pdf,https://www.dcsa.mil/is/nccs/

(d)"DoD Security Agreement," is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-0194. "National Industrial Security System," a CSA information collection, is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-0571, and is a DoD information collection used to conduct its monitoring and oversight of contractors. Department of Defense "Contract Security Classification Specification," (available at:and available at:), is assigned OMB Control Number 0704-0567 and used by both DoD and agencies which have an industrial security agreement with DoD. "Defense Information System for Security," is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-0573. Defense Information System for Security is a DoD automated system for personnel security, providing a common, comprehensive medium to record, document, and identify personal security actions within DoD including submitting adverse information, verification of security clearance status, requesting investigations, and supporting continuous evaluation activities. It requires personal data collection to facilitate the initiation, investigation and adjudication of information relevant to DoD security clearances and employment suitability determinations for active duty military, civilian employees and contractors seeking such credentials. Joint Personnel Adjudicative System is assigned OMB Control Number: 0704-0496. Joint Personnel Adjudicative System is an information system which requires personal data collection to facilitate the initiation, investigation and adjudication of information relevant to DoD security clearances and employment suitability determinations for active duty military, civilian employees and contractors seeking such credentials.
