
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.8 Reporting requirements.
####### General.,https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-3-Reporting-U.pdf

(a)Pursuant to this rule, Security Executive Agent Directive (SEAD) 3, (available at:) and CSA-provided guidance to supplement unique CSA mission requirements, contractors and their cleared employees are required to:

(1) Report certain events that may have an effect on the status of the entity's or an employee's eligibility for access to classified information; report events that indicate an insider threat to classified information or to employees with access to classified information; report events that affect proper safeguarding of classified information; and report events that indicate classified information has been, or is suspected to be, lost or compromised.

(2) Establish internal procedures to ensure employees with eligibility for access to classified information are aware of their responsibilities for reporting pertinent information to the FSO. The contractor will:

(i) Provide reports to the FBI, or other Federal authorities as required by this rule, the terms of a classified contract or other agreement, and by U.S. law.

(ii) Provide complete information to enable the CSA to ascertain whether classified information is adequately protected.

(iii) Submit reports to the FBI, the CSA, or the ISOO as specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (g) of this section.

(3) Appropriately mark reports containing classified information in accordance with ยง 117.14.

(4) Clearly mark a report containing information submitted in confidence as containing that information. When reports contain information pertaining to an individual, 5 U.S.C. 552a (also known as and referred to in this rule as "The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended,") permits the withholding of certain information from the individual in accordance with specific exemptions, which include authority to withhold release of information to the extent that the disclosure of the information would reveal the identity of a source who furnished the information to the USG under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.
