
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.8 Reporting requirements.
####### Changed conditions affecting the contractor's eligibility for access to classified information.,e.g.,

(7)Contractors are required to report certain events that affect the status of the entity eligibility determination (FCL), affect the status of an employee's PCL, may indicate an employee poses an insider threat, affect the proper safeguarding of classified information, or indicate classified information has been lost or compromised, including:

(i) Change of ownership or control of the contractor, including stock transfers that affect control of the entity.

(ii) Change of operating name or address of the entity or any of its locations determined eligible for access to classified information.

(iii) Any change to the information previously submitted for KMP including, as appropriate, the names of the individuals the contractor is replacing. A new complete KMP listing need be submitted only at the discretion of the contractor or when requested by the CSA. The contractor will provide a statement indicating:

(A) Whether the new KMP are cleared for access to classified information, and if cleared, to what level they are cleared and when they were cleared, their dates and places of birth, social security numbers, and citizenship.

(B) Whether they have been excluded from access to classified information in accordance with ยง 117.7(b)(5)(ii).

(C) Whether they have been temporarily excluded from access to classified information pending the determination of eligibility for access to classified information in accordance with ยง 117.9(g).

(iv) Any action to terminate business or operations for any reason, imminent adjudication or reorganization in bankruptcy, or any change that might affect the validity of the contractor's eligibility for access to classified information.

(v) Any material change concerning the information previously reported concerning foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI). This report will be made by the submission of an updated SF 328, "Certificate Pertaining to Foreign Interests," in accordance with CSA-provided guidance. When submitting this information, it is not necessary to repeat answers that have not changed. When entering into discussion, consultations, or agreements that may reasonably lead to effective ownership or control by a foreign interest, the contractor will report the details to the CSA in writing. If the contractor has received a Schedule 13D from the investor, the contractor will forward a copy with the report.
