
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.9 Entity eligibility determination for access to classified information.
####### e.g.,

(4) Neither the contractor nor its employees will be permitted access to classified information until the CSA has made an entity eligibility determination (issued an FCL).

(5) The requirement for a favorable entity eligibility determination (also referred to in some instances as an FCL) for a prime contractor includes instances where all access to classified information will be limited to subcontractors. A prime contractor must have a favorable entity eligibility determination at the same or higher classification level as its subcontractors.

(6) Contractors are eligible for storage of classified material in connection with a legitimate USG or foreign government requirement if they have a favorable entity eligibility determination and a classified information safeguarding capability approved by the CSA.

(7) An entity eligibility determination is valid for access to classified information at the same or lower classification level.

(8) Each CSA will maintain a record of entity eligibility determinations made by that CSA.

(9) A contractor will not use its favorable entity eligibility determination for advertising or promotional purposes. This does not prohibit the contractor from advertising employee positions that require a PCL in connection with the position.

(10) A contractor or prospective contractor cannot apply for its own entity eligibility determination. A GCA or a currently cleared contractor may sponsor an entity for an entity eligibility determination at any point during the contracting or agreement life cycle at which the entity must have access to classified information to participate (including the solicitation or competition phase).
