
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.9 Entity eligibility determination for access to classified information.
####### Eligibility requirements.

(c)To be eligible for an initial entity eligibility determination or to maintain an existing entity eligibility determination, the entity must:

(1) Need access to classified information in connection with a legitimate USG or foreign government requirement, and access must be consistent with U.S. national security interests as determined by the CSA.

(2) Be organized and existing:

(i) Under the laws of the United States, one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or an organized U.S. territory (Guam, Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands); or

(ii) Under the laws of an American Indian/Alaska Native tribal entity if:

(A) The American Indian or Alaska Native tribe under whose laws the entity is chartered has been formally acknowledged by the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, of the U.S. Department of the Interior.

(B) The contractor is organized and continues to exist, during the period of the eligibility under a tribal statue or code, or pursuant to a resolution of an authorized tribal legislative body.

(C) The contractor has submitted or will submit records such as a charter, certificate of organization, or other applicable tribal documents and statute or code provisions governing the formation and continuation of the entity, for CSA determination that the entity is tribally chartered.

(3) Be located in the United States or its territorial areas.

(4) Have a record of integrity and lawful conduct in its business dealings.

(5) Have a SMO, FSO, and ITPSO who have and who maintain eligibility for access to classified information and are not excluded from participating in USG contracts or agreements in accordance with ยง 117.7(b)(1) through ยง 117.7(b)(3).

(6) Not be under FOCI to such a degree that a favorable entity eligibility determination for access to classified information would be inconsistent with the national interest, in the judgment of the CSA.

(7) Maintain sufficient authorized and cleared employees to manage and implement the requirements of this rule in accordance with CSA guidance.

(8) Not pose an unacceptable risk to national security interests, in the judgment of the CSA.

(9) Meet all requirements governing access to classified information established by the CSA or the relevant authorizing law, regulation, or government-wide policy.
