
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.9 Entity eligibility determination for access to classified information.
####### Temporary exclusions.

(g)As a result of a changed condition, the SMO or other KMP who require eligibility for access to classified information in connection with the facility entity eligibility determination may be temporarily excluded from access to classified information while in the process of a PCL eligibility determination provided:

(1) The SMO or other KMP are not appointed as the FSO or ITPSO. FSOs and ITPSOs may not be temporarily excluded. A cleared employee must always be appointed to fulfill the requirements of these positions in accordance with this rule.

(2) An employee, cleared to the level of the entity eligibility determination, must be able to fulfill the NISP responsibilities of the temporarily excluded KMP in accordance with this rule while the temporary exclusion is in effect.

(3) The applicable CSA may provide additional guidance on the duration of a temporary exclusion from access to classified information based on circumstances, business structure, and other relevant security information.

(4) The contractor's governing board affirms the exclusion action, and provides a copy of the exclusion action to the CSA. The organization's governing body will document this action.
