
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.9 Entity eligibility determination for access to classified information.
####### Limited entity eligibility determination (Non-FOCI).

(m)(1) The applicable CSA may choose to allow a GCA to request limited entity eligibility determinations for a single, narrowly defined contract, agreement, or circumstance and specific to the requesting GCA's classified information. This is not the same as a limited entity eligibility determination in situations involving FOCI, when the FOCI is not mitigated or negated.

(i) Limited entity eligibility determinations (or FCLs) involving FOCI will be processed in accordance with ยง 117.11(e).

(ii) This paragraph (paragraph (m) of this section) applies to limited entity eligibility determinations for purposes other than FOCI mitigation in accordance with 32 CFR part 2004. Additional guidance may be provided by the responsible CSA.

(2) An entity must be sponsored for a limited entity eligibility determination by a GCA in accordance with the sponsorship requirements contained in paragraph (c) of this section. The contractor should be aware that the sponsorship request from the GCA to the CSA must also include:

(i) Description of the compelling need for the limited entity eligibility determination that is in accordance with U.S. national security interests.

(ii) Specific reason(s) or rationale for limiting the entity eligibility determination.

(iii) The GCA's formal acknowledgement and acceptance of the risk associated with this rationale.

(3) The entity must otherwise meet the entity eligibility determination requirements set out in this rule.

(4) Access limitations are inherent with the limited entity eligibility determination and are imposed upon all of the entity's employees regardless of citizenship.

(5) Contractors should be aware that the CSA will document the requirements of each limited entity eligibility determination it makes, including the scope of, and any limitations on, access to classified information.

(6) Contractors should be aware that the CSA will verify limited entity eligibility determinations only to the requesting GCA. In the case of multiple limited entity eligibility determinations for a single entity, the CSA verifies each one separately only to its requestor.

(7) The applicable CSA administratively terminates the limited entity eligibility determination when there is no longer a need for access to the classified information for which the CSA approved the limited entity eligibility determination.
