
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.10 Determination of eligibility for access to classified information for contractor employees.
####### https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-4-Adjudicative-Guidelines-U.pdf

(2) The CSA will determine eligibility for access to classified information in accordance with SEAD 4 (available at:) and notify the contractor when eligibility has been granted.

(i) The CSA will notify the contractor when an employee's eligibility has been denied, suspended, or revoked.

(ii) The contractor will immediately deny access to classified information to any employee when notified of a denial, revocation, or suspension of eligibility regardless of the contractor employee's location.

(iii) If the employee's performance is at a USG facility, the contractor will provide notification to the appropriate GCA of any denial, revocation, or suspension of eligibility for access to classified information.

(3) Contractors will annotate and maintain the accuracy of their employees' records in the system of record for contractor eligibility and access to classified information, when one has been designated by the CSA.

(4) Within an MFO or within the same business organization, contractors may centrally manage eligibility for access to classified information and access to classified information records.

(5) The contractor will limit requests for determinations of eligibility for access to classified information to the minimum number of employees and consultants necessary for operational efficiency in accordance with contractual obligations and other requirements of this rule. Requests for determinations of eligibility for access to classified information will not be used to establish a cache of cleared employees.
