
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.10 Determination of eligibility for access to classified information for contractor employees.
####### Verification of U.S. citizenship.

(c)A contractor will require each applicant for determination of eligibility for access to classified information who claims U.S. citizenship to provide evidence of citizenship to the FSO or other authorized representative of the contractor. All documentation must be the original or certified copies of the original documents.

(1) Any document, or its successor, listed in this paragraph is an acceptable document to corroborate U.S. citizenship by birth, including by birth abroad to a U.S. citizen.

(i) A birth certificate certified with the registrar's signature, which bears the raised, embossed, impressed, or multicolored seal of the registrar's office.

(ii) A current or expired U.S. passport or passport card that is unaltered and undamaged and was originally issued to the individual.

(iii) A Department of State Form FS-240, "Consular Report of Birth Abroad of a Citizen of the United States of America."

(iv) A Department of State Form FS-545 or DS-1350, "Certification of Report of Birth."

(2) Any document, or its successor, listed in this paragraph is an acceptable document to corroborate U.S. citizenship by certification, naturalization, or birth abroad to a U.S. citizen.

(i) A U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Form N-560 or N-561, "Certification of U.S. Citizenship."

(ii) A U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Form 550, 551, or 570, "Naturalization Certificate."

(iii) A valid or expired U.S. passport or passport card that is unaltered and undamaged and was originally issued to the individual.
