
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.10 Determination of eligibility for access to classified information for contractor employees.
####### Non-U.S. citizens.

(k)(1) Contractors must make every effort to ensure that non-U.S. citizens are not employed in duties that may require access to classified information. However, compelling reasons may exist to grant access to classified information to a non-U.S. citizen. The CSA may grant such individuals a LAA in those rare circumstances where a non-U.S. citizen possesses unique or unusual skills or expertise that is urgently needed to support a specific USG contract involving access to specified classified information, and a cleared or clearable U.S. citizen is not readily available. The CSA will provide specific procedures for requesting an LAA, to include the need for approval by a GCA senior official.

(2) An LAA granted under the provisions of this rule is not valid for access to:

(i) TOP SECRET information.

(ii) RD or FRD.

(iii) Information that has not been determined releasable by a USG designated disclosure authority to the country of which the individual is a citizen.

(iv) Communications security (COMSEC) information.

(v) Intelligence information.

(vi) NATO information. Foreign nationals of a NATO member nation may be authorized access to NATO information provided:

(A) The CSA obtains a NATO security clearance certificate from the individual's country of citizenship.

(B) NATO access is limited to performance on a specific NATO contract.

(vii) Information for which foreign disclosure has been prohibited in whole or in part.

(viii) Information provided to the USG in confidence by a third-party government.

(ix) Classified information furnished by a third-party government.
