
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.10 Determination of eligibility for access to classified information for contractor employees.
####### Temporary eligibility for access to classified information.,https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/Regulations/SEAD-8_Temporary_Eligibility_U.pdf

(l)In accordance with SEAD 8 (available at:), the CSA may grant temporary (previously called interim) eligibility for access to classified information, as appropriate, to applicants for access to TOP SECRET, SECRET, and CONFIDENTIAL information. This eligibility may only be granted if there is no evidence of adverse information that calls into question an individual's eligibility for access to classified information. If results are favorable following completion of full investigative requirements, the CSA will update the temporary eligibility determination for access to classified information to be final. In any case, a temporary eligibility determination shall not exceed one year unless approved by the applicable CSA in the system of record. Non-U.S. citizens are not eligible for access to classified information on a temporary basis.

(1) A temporary SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL eligibility determination is valid for access to classified information at the level of the eligibility granted. Access to RD, COMSEC information, and NATO information requires a final SECRET eligibility determination.

(2) A temporary TOP SECRET eligibility determination is valid for access to TOP SECRET information. If an individual has a temporary TOP SECRET eligibility determination and has a final SECRET eligibility determination based on a previously completed investigation, the temporary TOP SECRET eligibility determination is valid for access to RD, NATO, and COMSEC information at the SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL level.

(3) Access to SCI and SAP information based on a temporary eligibility determination is a determination made by the granting authority.

(4) When a temporary eligibility determination has been made and derogatory information is subsequently developed, the CSA may withdraw the temporary eligibility pending completion of the processing that is a prerequisite to the final eligibility determination.

(5) When a temporary eligibility determination is withdrawn for an individual who is required to be eligible for access to classified information in connection with the entity eligibility determination for access to classified information, the contractor must remove the individual from access to classified information and any KMP position requiring PCL eligibility or the temporary entity eligibility determination will also be withdrawn.

(6) Withdrawal of a temporary eligibility determination is not a denial, termination, or revocation of eligibility under this rule and may not be appealed.
