
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.10 Determination of eligibility for access to classified information for contractor employees.
####### Consultants.

(m)(1) A consultant will not access classified information off the premises of the using (hiring) contractor except in connection with authorized classified visits.

(2) A contractor may only assign a consultant outside the United States with responsibilities requiring access to classified information when:

(i) The consultant agreement between the contractor and consultant includes:

(A) Identification of the contract, license, or agreement that requires access to classified information, the level of classified information that is required, and access to FGI by the consultant while assigned outside the United States.

(B) A formal agreement that prohibits the consultant from disclosing any classified information related to the contract, license, or agreement as required in paragraph (m)(i)(A) of this section to any party other than the USG or foreign government with which the consultant is meeting, and who possesses the requisite clearance and need to know.

(ii) The consultant and the using contractor will jointly execute the consultant agreement setting forth respective security responsibilities. The contractor will retain an original signed copy of the agreement and will ensure its availability if requested by the CSA.

(iii) The contractor, in consultation with the applicable CSA as appropriate, will determine what threat briefing(s) the consultant should receive before the assignment, and conduct those briefings as part of the consultant's pre-assignment and recurring security training.

(iv) The contractor provides notice of any changes to the consultant agreement to the applicable CSA during assessments or upon CSA request.

(3) The using contractor will be the consumer of the consultant services as set forth in the consultant agreement.

(4) For security administration purposes, a consultant will be considered an employee of the using contractor for compliance with this rule.

(5) Consultants to GCAs are not under the purview of the NISP and will be processed for determination of eligibility by the GCA in accordance with GCA procedures.
