
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.11 Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI).
####### Factors.

(b)Factors relating to the entity, relevant foreign interests, and the government of such foreign interests, as appropriate, will be considered in the aggregate to determine whether an applicant entity is under FOCI, its eligibility for access to classified information, and the protective measures required. These factors include:

(1) Record of espionage against U.S. targets, either economic or government.

(2) Record of enforcement actions against the entity for transferring technology without authorization.

(3) Record of compliance with pertinent U.S. laws, regulations, and contracts or agreements.

(4) Type and sensitivity of the information the entity would access.

(5) Source, nature, and extent of FOCI, including whether foreign interests hold a majority or minority position in the entity, taking into consideration the immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parent entities.

(6) Nature of any relevant bilateral and multilateral security and information exchange agreements.

(7) Ownership or control, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by a foreign government.

(8) Any other factor that indicates or demonstrates capability of foreign interests to control or influence the entity's operations or management.
