
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.11 Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI).
####### Procedures.

(c)An entity is required to complete an SF 328 during the process for an entity eligibility determination or when significant changes occur to information previously submitted. In the case of a corporate family, the form may be a consolidated response rather than separate submissions from individual members of the corporate family based on CSA guidance.

(1) If an entity provides any affirmative answers on the SF 328, or the CSA receives other information which indicates that the applicant entity may be under FOCI, the CSA will make a risk-based determination regarding the relative significance of the information in regard to:

(i) Whether the applicant is under FOCI.

(ii) The extent and manner to which the FOCI represents a risk to the national security or may adversely impact classified contract performance.

(iii) The type of actions, if any, that would be necessary to mitigate or negate the effects of FOCI to a level deemed acceptable to the USG. The CSA will advise entities on the CSA's appeal channels for disputing CSA FOCI determinations.

(2) When an entity with a favorable eligibility determination enters into negotiations for the proposed merger, acquisition, or takeover by a foreign interest, the entity will submit notification to the CSA of the commencement of such negotiations.
