
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.11 Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI).
####### FOCI action plans.

(d)(1) When FOCI factors not related to ownership are present, the CSA will determine if positive measures will assure the CSA that the foreign interest can be effectively mitigated and cannot otherwise adversely affect performance on classified contracts. Examples of such measures include:

(i) Modification or termination of loan agreements, contracts, and other understandings with foreign interests.

(ii) Diversification or reduction of foreign-source income.

(iii) Demonstration of financial viability independent of foreign interests.

(iv) Elimination or resolution of problem debt.

(v) Assignment of specific oversight duties and responsibilities to board members.

(vi) Formulation of special executive-level security committees to consider and oversee issues that affect the performance of classified contracts.

(vii) Physical or organizational separation of the contractor component performing on classified contracts.

(viii) Adoption of special board resolutions.

(ix) Other actions that negate or mitigate foreign control or influence.

(x) A combination of these methods, as determined by the CSA.

(2) When FOCI factors related to ownership are present, methods the CSA may apply to negate or mitigate the risk of foreign ownership include, but are not limited to:
