
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.11 Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI).
####### Limited entity eligibility determination due to FOCI.

(e)In accordance with the provisions of this section and CSA-provided guidance, a limited entity eligibility determination may be an option for a single, narrowly defined contract, agreement, or circumstance for entities under FOCI without mitigation or negation. Limitations on access to classified information are inherent with the granting of limited entity eligibility determinations and are imposed upon all of the entity's employees regardless of citizenship.

(1) In exceptional circumstances, when an entity is under FOCI, the CSA may decide that a limited entity eligibility determination is appropriate when the entity is unable or unwilling to implement FOCI mitigation or negation measures, and the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section are met. This is not the same as a limited entity eligibility determination for purposes not related to FOCI. Information on limited entity eligibility determinations for purposes other than FOCI can be found in ยง 117.9(m). A CSA may decide that a limited entity eligibility is appropriate for an entity under FOCI if:

(i) The limited entity eligibility determination is in accordance with national security interests and a GCA has informed the CSA that access to classified information by the contractor is essential to contract or agreement performance.

(ii) There is an industrial security agreement with the foreign government of the country from which the FOCI is derived.

(iii) The contractor meets all other entity eligibility requirements outlined in ยง 117.9(c) except that KMP, other than the FSO, may be citizens of the country from which the FOCI derives and the United States has obtained security assurances at the appropriate level from that country.

(2) A U.S. subsidiary of a foreign entity may be sponsored for a limited entity eligibility determination by a foreign government when the foreign government desires to award a contract or agreement to the U.S. subsidiary that involves access to only that classified information for which the foreign government is the OCA.

(3) Limited entity eligibility determinations are specific to the classified information for the requesting GCA or foreign government and the single narrowly defined contract, agreement, or circumstance the request was based on. The limited entity eligibility determination will only be verified to that GCA or foreign government for the authorized level of access to classified information and any limitations to that access to classified information.

(4) A limited entity eligibility determination is not an option for contractors that require access to proscribed information when a foreign government has ownership or control over the entity.

(5) Release of classified information must be in conformity with the U.S. National Disclosure Policy-1 (provided to designated disclosure authorities on a need-to-know basis from the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, Defense Technology Security Administration).

(6) A limited entity eligibility determination will be administratively terminated when there is no longer a need for the contractor to access the classified information for which it was sponsored. Administrative termination of one limited entity eligibility determination does not impact a contractor's other limited entity eligibility determinations.

(7) If there is no industrial security agreement with the foreign government of the country from which the FOCI is derived, in extraordinary circumstances, a limited entity eligibility determination may also be granted if there is a compelling need to do so consistent with U.S. national security interests and the GCA has informed the applicable CSA that access to classified information by the contractor is essential to contract or agreement performance. Under this circumstance, the entity must follow all provisions of this rule.
