
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.11 Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI).
####### Qualifications of trustees, proxy holders, and outside directors.

(f)Individuals who serve as trustees, proxy holders, or outside directors must meet the following criteria:

(1) Trustees and proxy holders must be resident U.S. citizens who can exercise governance and management prerogatives relating to their position in a way that ensures that the foreign owner can be effectively insulated from the entity.

(2) Outside directors must be resident U.S. citizens who can exercise governance and management prerogatives relating to their position in a way that ensures that the foreign owner can be effectively separated from the entity's classified work.

(3) New trustees, proxy holders, and outside directors must be completely disinterested individuals with no prior involvement with the entity, the entities with which it is affiliated, or the foreign owner.

(4) The CSA may consider other circumstances that may affect an individual's eligibility to serve effectively including the number of boards on which the individual serves, the length of time serving on any other governance boards, and other factors in accordance with CSA-provided guidance.

(5) Trustees, proxy holders, and outside directors must be determined eligible for access to classified information at the level of the entity eligibility determination for access to classified information. Individuals who are serving as trustees, proxy holders, or outside directors as part of a mitigation measure for the entity are not considered to have prior involvement solely by performing that role for purposes of paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
