
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.12 Security training and briefings.
####### Insider threat training.

(g)The designated ITPSO will ensure that contractor program personnel assigned insider threat program responsibilities and all other cleared employees complete training consistent with applicable CSA provided guidance.

(1) The contractor will provide training to insider threat program personnel, including the contractor's designated ITPSO, on:

(i) CI and security fundamentals.

(ii) Procedures for conducting insider threat response actions.

(iii) Applicable laws and regulations regarding the gathering, integration, retention, safeguarding, and use of records and data, including the consequences of misuse of such information.

(iv) Applicable legal, civil liberties, and privacy policies and requirements applicable to insider threat programs.

(2) The contractor will provide insider threat awareness training to all cleared employees on an annual basis. Depending upon CSA specific guidance, a CSA may instead conduct such training. The contractor must provide all newly cleared employees with insider threat awareness training before granting access to classified information. Training will address current and potential threats in the work and personal environment and will include at a minimum:

(i) The importance of detecting potential insider threats by cleared employees and reporting suspected activity to the insider threat program designee.

(ii) Methodologies of adversaries to recruit trusted insiders and collect classified information, in particular within information systems.

(iii) Indicators of insider threat behavior and procedures to report such behavior.

(iv) CI and security reporting requirements, as applicable.

(3) The contractor will establish procedures to validate all cleared employees who have completed the initial and annual insider threat training.
