
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.13 Classification.
####### Derivative classification responsibilities.

(c)Contractors will provide employees with pertinent classification guidance to fulfill their derivative classification responsibilities. All contractor employees authorized to make derivative classification decisions will:

(1) Mark the face of each derivatively classified document with a classification authority block that includes the employee's name and position or personal identifier, the entity name, and when applicable, the division or the branch.

(2) Observe and respect original classification decisions.

(3) Carry forward the pertinent classification markings to any newly created documents. For information derivatively classified based on multiple sources, the derivative classifier will carry forward:

(i) The date or event for declassification that corresponds to the longest period of classification among the sources.

(ii) A listing of the source materials.

(4) Be trained, in accordance with ยง 117.12(h), in the proper application of the derivative classification principles at least once every two years.

(5) Whenever possible, use a classified addendum if classified information constitutes a small portion of an otherwise unclassified document.
