
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.13 Classification.
####### Security classification guidance.

(d)(1) Contractors should be aware the GCA will:

(i) Incorporate appropriate security requirement clauses in a classified contract, IFB, RFP, RFQ, or all solicitations leading to a classified contract.

(ii) Provide the contractor with the security classification guidance needed during performance of the contract.

(iii) Provide this guidance to the contractor in the contract security classification specification, or equivalent.

(2) The contract security classification specification, or equivalent, must identify the specific elements of classified information involved in the contract that require security protection.

(3) At the discretion of the CSA, contractors may, to the extent possible, advise and assist in the development and any updates to or any revisions to the contract security classification specification, or equivalent.

(4) The contractor will comply with all aspects of the classification guidance.

(i) Users of classification guides are encouraged to notify the originator of the guide when they acquire information that suggests the need for change in the instructions contained in the guide.

(ii) Classification guidance is the exclusive responsibility of the GCA, and the final determination of the appropriate classification for the information rests with that activity. The contract security classification specification, or equivalent, is a contractual specification necessary for the performance of a classified contract. Challenges to classification status are in paragraph (e) in this section.

(iii) If the contractor receives a classified contract without a contract security classification specification, or equivalent, the contractor will notify the GCA. If the GCA does not respond with the appropriate contract security classification specification, or equivalent, the contractor will notify the CSA.

(5) Upon completion of a classified contract, the contractor must return all USG provided or deliverable information to the custody of the USG.

(i) If the GCA does not advise to the contrary, the contractor may retain copies of the USG material for a period of two years following the completion of the contract. The contract security classification specification, or equivalent, will continue in effect for this two-year period.

(ii) If the GCA determines the contractor has a continuing need for the copies of the USG material beyond the two-year period, the GCA will issue a final contract security classification specification, or equivalent, for the classified contract and will include disposition instructions for the copies.
