
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.13 Classification.
####### Challenges to classification status.

(e)(1) The contractor will address challenges to classification status with the GCA and request remedy when:

(i) Information is classified improperly or unnecessarily.

(ii) Current security considerations justify downgrading to a lower classification level or upgrading to a higher classification level.

(iii) Security classification guidance is not provided, improper or inadequate.

(2) If the GCA does not provide a remedy, and the contractor still believes that corrective action is required, the contractor will make a formal written challenge to the GCA. The challenge will include:

(i) A description sufficient to identify the issue.

(ii) The reasons why the contractor thinks that corrective action is required.

(iii) Recommendations for appropriate corrective action.

(3) The contractor will safeguard the information as required for its assigned or proposed level of classification, whichever is higher, until action is completed.

(4) If the contractor does not receive a written answer from the GCA within 60 days, the contractor will request assistance from the CSA. If the contractor does not receive a response from the GCA within 120 days, the contractor may appeal the challenge to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel through ISOO.

(5) The fact that a contractor has initiated such a challenge will not, in any way, serve as a basis for adverse action against the contractor by the USG. If a contractor believes that adverse action did result from a classification challenge, the contractor will promptly furnish full details to ISOO for resolution.
