
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.13 Classification.
####### Contractor developed information.

(f)Whenever a contractor develops an unsolicited proposal or originates information not in the performance of a classified contract, the provisions of this paragraph apply.

(1) If the information was previously identified as classified, it will be classified according to an appropriate classification guide, or source document, and appropriately marked.

(2) If the information was not previously classified, but the contractor believes the information may or should be classified, the contractor will:

(i) Protect the information as though classified at the appropriate level.

(ii) Submit the information to the agency that has an interest for a classification determination. In such cases, clearly mark the material "CLASSIFICATION DETERMINATION PENDING; Protect as either TOP SECRET, SECRET, or CONFIDENTIAL." This marking will appear conspicuously at least once on the material but no further markings are necessary until a classification determination is received.

(iii) Not be precluded from marking such material as entity-private or entity-proprietary information, unless the material was based upon information obtained from prior deliverables to the USG or was developed from USG material.

(iv) Protect the information pending a final classification determination. The information may be CUI, if it is not classified. Only information that is owned by, produced by, produced for, or is under the control of the USG can be classified in accordance with E.O. 13526.

(3) To be eligible for classification:

(i) The information must incorporate classified information to which the contractor was given prior access.

(ii) The information must be partially or wholly owned by, produced by or for, or under the control of the USG.

(4) 10 CFR 1045.21 includes provisions for the DOE with regard to privately generated RD, whereby the DOE may classify such information in accordance with the AEA.
