
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.14 Marking requirements.
####### Foreign government restricted information and "in confidence" information.

(m)

(1) Some foreign governments have a fourth level of classification that does not correspond to an equivalent U.S. classification that is identified as RESTRICTED information. In many cases, security agreements require RESTRICTED information to be protected as U.S. CONFIDENTIAL information.

(2) Some foreign governments may have a category of unclassified information that is protected by law. This latter category is normally provided to other governments with the expectation that the information will be treated "In Confidence." The foreign government or international organization must state that the information is provided in confidence and that it must be protected from release.

(i) 10 U.S.C. 130c protects information provided "In Confidence" by foreign governments which is not classified but meets special requirements.

(ii) This provision also applies to RESTRICTED information which is not required by an agreement to be protected as classified information.

(iii) The contractor will not disclose information protected by this statutory provision to anyone except personnel who require access to the information in connection with the contract.

(3) It is the responsibility of the foreign entity that awards the contract to incorporate requirements for the protection and marking of RESTRICTED or "In Confidence" information in the contract. The contractor will advise the CSA if requirements were not provided by the foreign entity.
