
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.15 Safeguarding classified information.
####### e.g.,

(ii) If the unauthorized introduction or removal of classified material can be reasonably prevented through technical means (an intrusion detection system), which are encouraged, no further controls are necessary. The contractor will provide appropriate authorization to personnel who have a legitimate need to remove or transport classified material for passing through designated entry or exit points.

(iii) The contractor will:

(A) Provide appropriate authorization to personnel who have a legitimate need to remove or transport classified material for passing through designated entry or exit points.

(B) Conspicuously post notices at all pertinent entries and exits that persons who enter or depart the facility are subject to an inspection of their personal, except under circumstances where the possibility of access to classified material is remote.

(C) Limit inspections to buildings or areas where classified work is being performed.

(D) Establish the extent, frequency, and location of inspections in a manner consistent with contractual obligations and operational efficiency. The contractor may use any appropriate random sampling technique.

(E) Seek legal advice during the formulation of implementing procedures.

(F) Submit significant problems pertaining to perimeter controls and inspections to the CSA.

(iv) Contractors will develop procedures for safeguarding classified material in emergency situations.

(A) The procedures should be as simple and practical as possible and adaptable to any type of emergency that may reasonably arise.

(B) Contractors will promptly report to the CSA any emergency situation that renders them incapable of safeguarding classified material.
