
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.15 Safeguarding classified information.
####### 2

() It is impractical for the contractor to establish a GCMS or proprietary guard force at that location. In this case, installation of these systems must use NRTL-approved equipment and be accomplished by an NRTL-approved entity meeting the applicable testing standard for the category of service.

(ii) An installation proposal, explaining how the system would operate, will be submitted to the CSA. The proposal must include:

(A) Sufficient justification for the granting of an exception and the full name and address of the police department that will monitor the system and provide the required response.

(B) The name and address of the NRTL-approved entity that will install the system, and inspect, maintain, and repair the equipment.

(iii) The response times will be in accordance with the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) in this section as applicable. Arrangements will be made with the central monitoring station to immediately notify a contractor representative on receipt of the alarm. The contractor representative is required to go immediately to the facility to investigate the alarm and to take appropriate measures to secure the classified material.

(iv) In exceptional cases where central station monitoring service is available, but no proprietary security force, central station, or subcontracted guard response is available, and where the police department does not agree to respond to alarms, and no other manner of investigative response is available, the CSA may approve cleared employees as the sole means of response.
