
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.15 Safeguarding classified information.
####### Top secret information.

(2)Contractors will establish controls for TOP SECRET information and material to validate procedures are in place to address accountability, need to know, and retention, e.g., demonstrating that TOP SECRET material stored in an electronic format on an authorized classified information system does not need to be individually numbered in series. These controls are in addition to the information management system and must be applied, unless otherwise directed by the applicable CSA, regardless of the media of the TOP SECRET information, to include information processed and stored on authorized information systems. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable CSA, the contractor will establish the following additional controls:

(i) Designate TOP SECRET control officials to receive, transmit, and maintain access and accountability records to TOP SECRET information.

(ii) Conduct an annual inventory of TOP SECRET information and material.

(iii) Establish a continuous receipt system for the transmittal of TOP SECRET information within and outside the contractor location.

(iv) Number each item of TOP SECRET material in a series. Place the copy number on TOP SECRET documents, regardless of media, and on all associated transactions documents.

(v) Establish a record of TOP SECRET material when the material is:

(A) Completed as a finished document.

(B) Retained for more than 180 days after creation, regardless of the stage of development.

(C) Transmitted outside the contractor location.

(vi) Establish procedures for destruction of TOP SECRET material by two authorized persons.

(vii) Establish destruction records for TOP SECRET material and maintain the records for two years in accordance with ยง 117.13(d)(5) or in accordance with GCA requirements.
