
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.15 Safeguarding classified information.
####### Disclosure to the public.

(8)Contractors will not disclose classified information to the public. Contractors will not disclose unclassified information pertaining to a classified contract to the public without prior review and clearance as specified in the Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, for the contract or as otherwise specified by the GCA. The procedures of this paragraph also apply to information pertaining to classified contracts intended for use in unclassified brochures, promotional sales literature, reports to stockholders, or similar material.

(i) The contractor will:

(A) Submit requests for approval through the activity specified in the GCA-provided classification guidance for the contract involved.

(B) Include in each request the approximate date the contractor intends to release the information for public disclosure and identify the media to be used for the initial release.

(C) Retain a copy of each approved request for release for a period of one inspection cycle for review by the CSA.

(D) Clear all information developed subsequent to the initial approval through the appropriate office prior to public disclosure.

(ii) Unless specifically prohibited by the GCA, the contractor does not need to request approval for disclosure of:

(A) The fact that a contract has been received, including the subject of the contract or type of item in general terms provided the name or description of the subject is not classified.

(B) The method or type of contract.

(C) Total dollar amount of the contract unless that information equates to:
