
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.15 Safeguarding classified information.
####### Retention.

(j)The provisions of ยง 117.13(d)(5) apply for retention of classified material upon completion of a classified contract.

(1) If contractors propose to retain copies of classified material beyond 2 years, the contractor will identify:

(i) TOP SECRET material identified in a list of specific documents unless the GCA authorizes identification by subject and approximate number of documents.

(ii) SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL material may be identified by general subject and the approximate number of documents.

(iii) Contractors will include a statement of justification for retention beyond two years based on if the material:

(A) Is necessary for the maintenance of the contractor's essential records.

(B) Is patentable or proprietary data to which the contractor has the title.

(C) Will assist the contractor in independent research and development efforts.

(D) Will benefit the USG in the performance of other prospective or existing agency contracts.

(E) Will benefit the USG in the performance of another active contract and will be transferred to that contract (specify contract).

(2) If the GCA does not authorize retention beyond two years, the contractor will destroy all classified material received or generated in the performance of a classified contract unless it has been declassified or the GCA has requested that the material be returned.
