
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.17 Subcontracting.
####### Prime contractor responsibilities,Responsibilities.

(a)-(1)Before a prime contractor may release or disclose classified information to a subcontractor, or cause classified information to be generated by a subcontractor, a determination that access to classified information will be required and such access serves a legitimate USG requirement for the performance of a "classified contract" in accordance with ยง 117.9(a) must be made. Prime contractors are responsible for communicating the appropriate security requirements to all subcontractors.

(i) A "security requirements clause" and a "Contract Security Classification Specification," or equivalent, will be incorporated in the solicitation and in the subcontract. (See the "security requirements clause" in the prime contract.)

(ii) The subcontractor must possess an appropriate entity eligibility determination and a classified information safeguarding capability if possession of classified information will be required.

(A) If access to classified information will not be required in the pre-award phase, prospective subcontractors are not required to possess an entity eligibility determination to receive or bid on the solicitation.

(B) If a prospective subcontractor requires access to classified information during the pre-award phase and does not have the appropriate entity eligibility determination or a classified information safeguarding capability, the prime contractor will request the CSA of the subcontractor to initiate the necessary action.

(iii) If access to classified information will not be required, the contract is not a classified contract within the meaning of this rule. If the prime contract contains requirements for release or disclosure of protected information that is not classified, such as CUI, the requirements will be incorporated in the solicitation and the subcontract and are not covered by this rule.
