
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.17 Subcontracting.
####### Prospective subcontractors entity eligibility determinations.

(2)(i) The prime contractor will verify whether the prospective subcontractors have the appropriate entity eligibility determination and also a classified information safeguarding capability, if a subcontract requirement. This determination can be made if there is an existing contractual relationship between the parties involving classified information of the same or higher category, and must be verified by accessing the CSA-designated database, or by contacting the CSA.

(ii) If a prospective subcontractor does not have the appropriate entity eligibility determination or a classified information safeguarding capability, the prime contractor will request that the CSA of the subcontractor initiate the necessary action.

(A) Requests will include, at a minimum, the full name, address, and contact information for the requester; the full name, address, and contact information for a contact at the facility to be processed for an entity eligibility determination; the level of clearance and the required classified information safeguarding capability; and full justification for the request.

(B) Requests for safeguarding capability will include a description, quantity, end-item, and classification of the information related to the proposed subcontract.

(C) Other factors necessary to help the CSA determine if the prospective subcontractor meets the requirements of this rule will be identified, such as any special access requirements.
