
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.18 Information system security.
####### Information system security program.

(b)The contractor will maintain an information system security program that supports overall information security by incorporating a risk-based set of management, operational, and technical security controls in accordance with CSA-provided guidance. The contractor will incorporate into the program:

(1) Policies and procedures that reduce information security risks to an acceptable level and address information security throughout the information system life cycle.

(2) Plans and procedures to assess, report, isolate, and contain data spills and compromises, to include sanitization and recovery methods.

(3) Information system security training for authorized users, as required in CSA provided guidance.

(4) Policies and procedures that address key components of the contractor's insider threat program, such as:

(i) User activity monitoring network activity, either automated or manual.

(ii) Information sharing procedures.

(iii) A continuous monitoring program.

(iv) Protecting, interpreting, storing, and limiting access to user activity monitoring automated logs to privileged users.

(5) Processes to continually evaluate threats and vulnerabilities to contractor activities, facilities, and information systems to ascertain the need for additional safeguards.

(6) Change control processes to accommodate configuration management and to identify security relevant changes that may require re-authorization of the information system.

(7) Methods to ensure users are aware of rights and responsibilities through the use of banners and user agreements.
