
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.18 Information system security.
####### ISSM.

(2)Contractors that are or will be processing classified information on an information system will appoint an employee ISSM. The contractor will confirm that the ISSM is adequately trained, has sufficient experience, and possesses technical competence commensurate with the complexity of the information system. The ISSM will:

(i) Oversee the development, implementation, and evaluation of the contractor's information system program for contractor management, information system personnel, users, and others as appropriate.

(ii) Coordinate with the contractor's insider threat senior program official so that insider threat awareness is addressed in the contractor's information system security program.

(iii) Develop, document, and monitor compliance of the contractor's information system security program in accordance with CSA-provided guidelines for management, operational, and technical controls.

(iv) Verify self-inspections are conducted at least every 12 months on the contractor's information systems that process classified information, and that corrective actions are taken for all identified findings.

(v) Certify to the CSA in writing that the systems security plan (SSP) is implemented for each authorized information systems, specified in the SSP; the specified security controls are in place and properly tested; and the information system continues to function as described in the SSP.

(vi) Brief users on their responsibilities with regard to information system security and verify that contractor personnel are trained on the security restrictions and safeguards of the information system prior to access to an authorized information system.

(vii) Develop and maintain security documentation of the security authorization request to the CSA. Documentation may include:

(A) SSPs.

(B) Security assessment reports.

(C) Plans of actions and milestones.

(D) Risk assessments.

(E) Authorization decision letters.

(F) Contingency plans.

(G) Configuration management plans.

(H) Security configuration checklists.

(I) System interconnection agreements.
