
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Security agreements,e.g.,

(2)-(i) Bilateral security agreements (General Security of Information Agreements and General Security of Military Information Agreements) are negotiated with various foreign governments. Confidentiality requested by some foreign governments prevents a listing of the countries that have executed these agreements. The bilateral security agreement, negotiated through diplomatic channels:

(A) Requires that each government provide substantially the same degree of protection to classified information released by the other government.

(B) Contains provisions concerning limits on the use of each government's information, including restrictions on third-party transfers and proprietary rights.

(C) Does not commit governments to share classified information, nor does it constitute authority to release classified material to that government.

(D) Satisfies, in part, the eligibility requirements of the Arms Export Control Act concerning the agreement of the recipient foreign government to protect U.S. classified defense articles and classified information.

(ii) The applicable CSA will provide a mechanism for contractors to access, for official purposes, classified general security agreements.

(iii) Industrial security agreements have been negotiated with certain foreign governments that identify the procedures to be used when foreign government classified information is provided to U.S. industry and UUSG classified information is provided to foreign defense industry.
