
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Subcontract security provisions.

(5)(i) A U.S. contractor may be authorized to enter into an agreement involving classified information with a foreign contractor. The U.S. contractor's empowered official will verify the contractor can release the information to a foreign person. Such agreements may include:

(A) Award of a subcontract.

(B) Department of State authorized manufacturing license agreement, technical assistance agreement, or other direct commercial arrangement.

(ii) The contractor will incorporate security provisions into the subcontract document or agreement, and provide security classification guidance by means of a Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent.

(iii) The contractor will provide a copy of the signed contract with the provisions and the classification guidance to the CSA.

(iv) If the export authorization specifies that additional security arrangements are necessary for performance on the contract, the contractor will incorporate those additional arrangements by appropriate provision in the contract or in a separate security document.

(v) The contractor will prepare and maintain a written record that identifies the originator or source of classified information that will be used in providing classified defense articles, material or services to foreign customers. The contractor will maintain this listing with the contractor's record copy of the pertinent export authorization.
