
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### International transfers of classified material,General.

(d)-(1)This paragraph (d) contains the procedures for international transfers of classified material through government-to-government channels or other arrangements agreed to by the governments involved, otherwise referred to as government-to-government transfers. The requirements in this paragraph (d) do not apply to the transmission of classified material to usg activities outside the united states.

(i) All international transfers of classified material must take place through channels approved by both governments. U.S. control of classified material must be maintained until the material is officially transferred to the intended recipient government through its designated government representative (DGR).

(ii) To ensure government control, written transmission instructions must be prepared for all international transfers of classified material. The contractor is responsible for the preparation of instructions for direct commercial arrangements, and the GCA will prepare instructions for government arrangements.

(iii) The contractor will contact the CSA at the earliest possible stage in deliberations that will lead to the international transfer of classified material. The CSA will advise the contractor on the transfer arrangements, identify the recipient government's DGR, appoint a U.S. DGR, and ensure that the transportation plan prepared by the contractor or foreign government is adequate.

(iv) The contractor's empowered official is responsible for requests for all export authorizations, including ones that will involve the transfer of classified information.
