
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Hand carrying classified material.

(6)To meet contractual requirements, the CSA may authorize contractor employees to hand carry classified material outside the United States. SECRET is the highest level of classified material to be carried and it must be of such size and weight that the courier can retain it in his or her possession at all times.

(i) The CSA will ensure that the contractor has made necessary arrangements with U.S. airport security and customs officials and that security authorities of the receiving government approve the plan. If the transfer is under a contract or a bilateral or multinational government program, the GCA will approve the request in writing. The contractor will notify the CSA of a requirement to hand carry at least 5 working days in advance of the transfer.

(ii) The courier must be a full-time employee of the dispatching or receiving contractor who has been determined eligible and has been granted access to classified information.

(iii) The employing contractor will provide the courier with a courier certificate that is consecutively numbered and valid for one journey only. The journey may include more than one stop if approved by the CSA and secure government storage has been arranged at each stop. The courier will return the courier certificate to the dispatching contractor immediately on completion of the journey.

(iv) Before commencement of each journey, the courier will read and initial the notes to the courier attached to the courier certificate and sign the courier declaration. The contractor will maintain the declaration until completion of the next CSA security review.

(v) The dispatching contractor will inventory, wrap, and seal the material in the presence of the U.S. DGR. The contractor will place the address of the receiving security office and the return address of the dispatching contractor security office on the inner envelope or wrapping and mark it with the appropriate classification. The contractor will place the address of the receiving government's DGR on the outer envelope or wrapping along with the return address of the dispatching contractor.

(vi) The dispatching contractor will prepare three copies of a receipt based on the inventory and list the classified material that is being sent. The dispatching contractor will retain one copy of the receipt. The contractor will pack the other two copies with the classified material. The contractor will obtain a receipt for the sealed package from the courier.

(vii) The dispatching contractor will provide the receiving contractor with 24 work hours advance notification of the anticipated date and time of the courier's arrival and the identity of the courier. The receiving contractor must notify the dispatching contractor if the courier does not arrive within 8 hours of the expected time of arrival. The dispatching contractor will notify its DGR of any delay, unless officially notified otherwise of a change in the courier's itinerary.

(viii) The receiving DGR will verify the contents and sign the receipts enclosed in the consignment. The receiving DGR will return one copy to the courier. On return, the courier will provide the executed receipt to the dispatching contractor.

(ix) Throughout the journey, the courier will maintain the classified material under direct personal control. The courier will not leave the material unattended at any time during the journey, in the transport being used, in hotel rooms, in cloakrooms, or other such location, and will not deposit it in hotel safes, luggage lockers, or in luggage offices. In addition, the courier will not open envelopes or packages containing the classified material en route, unless required by customs or other government officials.

(x) When inspection by government officials is unavoidable, the courier will request that the officials provide written verification that they have opened the package. The courier will notify their employing contractor as soon as possible. The contractor will notify the U.S. DGR. If the inspecting officials are not of the same country as the dispatching contractor, the CSA will notify the designated security authority in the country whose officials inspected the consignment. Under no circumstances will the courier hand over the classified material to customs or other officials for their custody.

(xi) When carrying classified material, the courier will not travel by surface routes through third countries, except as authorized by the CSA. The courier will travel only on carriers described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) in this section, and will travel direct routes between the United States and the destination.
