
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Contractor preparations for international transfers of classified material pursuant to direct commercial and foreign military sales.

(8)To prepare for international transfers the contractor will:

(i) Identify each party to be involved in the transfer in the applicable contract or agreement and in the license application or letter request.

(ii) Notify the appropriate U.S. DGR when the material is ready.

(iii) When the classified material is also ITAR-controlled, provide documentation or written certification by an empowered official (as defined in the ITAR) to the U.S. DGR. This documentation must verify that the classified shipment is within the limitation scope of the pertinent export authorization or an authorized exemption to the export authorization requirements, or is within the limitations of the pertinent GCA contract.

(iv) Have the classified shipment ready for visual review and verification by the DGR. As a minimum this will include:

(A) Preparing the packaging materials, address labels, and receipts for review.

(B) Marking the contents with the appropriate U.S. classification or the equivalent foreign government classification, downgrading, and declassification markings, as applicable.

(C) Ensuring that shipping documents (including, as appropriate, the shipper's export declaration) include the name and contact information for the CSA that validates the license or letter authorization, and the FSO or designee for the particular transfer.

(D) Sending advance notification of the shipment to the CSA, the recipient, and to the freight forwarder, if applicable. The notification will require that the recipient confirm receipt of the shipment or provide notice to the contractor if the shipment is not received in accordance with the prescribed shipping schedule.
