
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Storage, custody, and control of classified information abroad by contractor employees.

(2)(i) The USG is responsible for the storage, custody, and control of classified information required by a U.S. contractor employee abroad. Therefore, the storage of classified information by contractor employees at any location abroad that is not under USG control is prohibited. The storage may be at a U.S. military facility, an American Embassy or consulate, or other location occupied by a USG organization.

(ii) A contractor employee may be furnished a security container to temporarily store classified material at a USG agency overseas location. The decision to permit a contractor to temporarily store classified information must be approved in writing by the senior security official for the USG host organization.

(iii) A contractor employee may be permitted to temporarily remove classified information from an overseas USG-controlled facility when necessary for the performance of a GCA contract or pursuant to an approved export authorization.

(A) The responsible USG security official at the facility will verify that the contractor has an export authorization or other written USG approval to have the material, verify the need for the material to be removed from the facility, and brief the employee on handling procedures.
