
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### 2

() Arrangements will also be made with the USG custodian for the return and storage of the classified material during non-duty hours.

(B) The security office at the USG facility will report violations of this policy to the applicable CSA.

(iv) A contractor employee will not store classified information at overseas divisions or subsidiaries of U.S. entities incorporated or located in a foreign country.

(A) The divisions or subsidiaries may possess classified information that has been transferred to the applicable foreign government through government-to-government channels pursuant to an approved export authorization or other written USG authorization.

(B) Access to this classified information at such locations by a U.S. contractor employee assigned abroad by the parent facility on a visit authorization in support of a foreign government contract or subcontract, is governed by the laws and regulations of the country in which the division or subsidiary is registered or incorporated. The division or subsidiary that has obtained the information from the foreign government will provide the access.

(v) U.S. contractor employees assigned to foreign government or foreign contractor locations under a direct commercial sales arrangement will be subject to the host-nation's industrial security policies.
