
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### e.g.,

(C) The third element will be the year;MM/NS-0013/17.

(ii) COSMIC TOP SECRET, NATO SECRET, and ATOMAL documents will bear the reference number on each page and a copy number on the cover or first page.

(A) Copies of NATO documents will be serially numbered.

(B) Pages will be numbered.

(C) The first page, index, or table of contents will include a list, including page numbers, of all annexes and appendices.

(D) The total number of pages will be stated on the first page.

(E) All annexes or appendices will include the date of the original document and the purpose of the new text (addition or substitution) on the first page.

(iii) One of the following markings will be applied to NATO documents that contain ATOMAL information:

(A) "This document contains U.S. ATOMIC Information (RESTRICTED DATA or FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA) made available pursuant to the NATO Agreement for Cooperation Regarding ATOMIC Information, dated 18 June 1964, and will be safeguarded accordingly."

(B) "This document contains UK ATOMIC Information. This information is released to NATO including its military and civilian agencies and member states on condition that it will not be released by the recipient organization to any other organization or government or national of another country or member of any other organization without prior permission from H.M. Government in the United Kingdom."

(iv) Working papers will be retained only until a final product is produced and in accordance with ยง 117.15(e)(3).
