
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Accountability records.

(18)Logs, receipts, and destruction certificates are required for NATO classified information. Records for NATO documents will be maintained separately from records of non-NATO documents (methods such as separate drawers of a container).

(i) COSMIC TOP SECRET and all ATOMAL documents will be recorded on logs maintained separately from other NATO logs and will be assigned unique serial control numbers.

(ii) Additionally, disclosure records bearing the name and signature of each person who has access are required for all COSMIC TOP SECRET, COSMIC TOP SECRET ATOMAL, and all other ATOMAL or NATO classified documents to which special access limitations have been applied.

(iii) Minimum identifying data on logs, receipts, and destruction certificates will include the NATO reference number, short title, date of the document, classification, and serial copy numbers. Logs will reflect the short title, unclassified subject, and distribution of the documents.

(iv) Receipts are required for all NATO classified documents except NATO CONFIDENTIAL.

(v) Inventories will be conducted annually of all COSMIC TOP SECRET, NATO SECRET, and ATOMAL documents.

(vi) Accountability records for ATOMAL documents will be retained for 10 years after transfer or destruction of the ATOMAL document. Destruction certificates will be retained for 10 years after destruction of the related ATOMAL documents.
