
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Release of U.S. information to NATO.

(21)(i) Release of U.S. classified or export-controlled information to NATO requires an export authorization or other written disclosure authorization. When a document containing U.S. classified information is being prepared for NATO, the appropriate NATO classification markings will be applied to the document.

(A) Documents containing U.S. classified information and U.S. classified documents that are authorized for release to NATO will be marked on the cover or first page "THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. THE INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN AUTHORIZED FOR RELEASE TO (cite the NATO organization) BY (cite the applicable license or other written authority)."

(B) The CSA will provide transmission instructions to the contractor. The material will be addressed to a U.S. organization at NATO, which will then place the material into NATO security channels. The material will be accompanied by a letter to the U.S. organization that provides transfer instructions and assurances that the material has been authorized for release to NATO. The inner wrapper will be addressed to the intended NATO recipient.

(C) Material to be sent to NATO via mail will be routed through the U.S. Postal Service and U.S. military postal channels to the U.S. organization that will make the transfer.

(ii) A record will be maintained that identifies the originator and source of classified information that are used in the preparation of documents for release to NATO. The record will be provided with any request for release authorization.
