
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.19 International security requirements.
####### Records.

(7)Contractors will maintain records of exports, transfers, re-exports, or re-transfers of defense articles subject to the Treaties for a minimum of five years. The contractor will make records available to the CSA upon request. In accordance with the ITAR parts 126.16 and 126.17 the records will contain:

(i) Port of entry or exit.

(ii) Date and time of export or import.

(iii) Method of export or import.

(iv) Commodity code and description of the commodity, including technical data.

(v) Value of export.

(vi) Justification for export under the Treaties.

(vii) End-user or end-use.

(viii) Identification of all U.S. and foreign parties to the transaction.

(ix) How export was marked.

(x) Security classification of the export.

(xi) All written correspondence with the USG on the export.

(xii) All information relating to political contributions, fees, or commissions furnished or obtained, offered, solicited, or agreed upon, as outlined in the ITAR parts 126.16(m) or 126.17(m).

(xiii) Purchase order, contract, or letter of intent.

(xiv) Technical data actually exported.

(xv) The internal transaction number for the electronic export information filing in the automated export system.

(xvi) All shipping documentation (including, but not limited to, the airway bill, bill of lading, packing list, delivery verification, and invoice).
