
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.23 Supplement to this rule: Security Requirements for Alternative Compensatory Control Measures (ACCM), Special Access Programs (SAPs), Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), Restricted Data (RD), Formerly Restricted Data (FRD), Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information (TFNI), and Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI).
####### RD, FRD, and TFNI,General.

(e)-(1)This section describes some of the requirements for nuclear-related information designated RD, FRD, or TFNI in accordance with the AEA and 10 CFR part 1045. 10 CFR part 1045 contains the full requirements for classification and declassification of RD, FRD, and TFNI. Information on safeguarding of RD by access permittees is contained in 10 CFR part 1016. For RD that is NNPI, the additional provisions of paragraph (f) of this section apply.

(i) The DOE is the sole authority for establishing requirements for classifying, accessing, handling, securing, and protecting RD. The DOE and the DoD share authority for the requirements for FRD. The DOE and ODNI share authority for establishing requirements for TFNI.

(ii) RD, FRD, and TFNI categories are distinguished from the NSI category, which is governed in accordance with E.O. 13526.

(A) RD, FRD, and TFNI have unique marking requirements and are not subject to automatic declassification. In addition, RD and FRD have special restrictions regarding foreign release.

(B) It is necessary to differentiate between the handling of this information and NSI because of its direct relationship to our nation's nuclear deterrent.

(iii) Some access requirements for RD and FRD exceed the requirements for NSI. Due to the unique national security implications of RD and FRD, and to facilitate maintaining consistency of codified requirement, they are not repeated in the baseline of this rule, but may be applied through specific contract requirements.

(iv) When RD is transclassified as TFNI, it is safeguarded as NSI. Such information will be labeled as TFNI. The label TFNI will be included on documents to indicate it is exempt from automatic declassification as specified in 10 CFR part 1045, the AEA, E.O. 13526, and 32 CFR part 2001.
