
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.23 Supplement to this rule: Security Requirements for Alternative Compensatory Control Measures (ACCM), Special Access Programs (SAPs), Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), Restricted Data (RD), Formerly Restricted Data (FRD), Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information (TFNI), and Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI).
####### Classification and declassification.

(5)(i) All persons with access to RD and FRD must receive initial and periodic refresher training as required under ยง 1045.120 10 CFR. The training must include the following information:

(A) What information is potentially RD and FRD.

(B) Matter that potentially contains RD or FRD must be reviewed by an RD derivative classifier to determine whether it is RD or FRD.

(C) The DOE must review matter that potentially contains RD or TFNI for public release and DOE or DoD must review matter that potentially contains FRD for public release.

(D) RD derivative classification authority is required to classify or upgrade matter containing RD or FRD, or to downgrade the level of matter containing RD or FRD.

(E) Only a person trained in accordance with ยง 1045.120 10 CFR may classify matter containing TFNI.

(F) Matter containing RD, FRD, and TFNI is not automatically declassified and only DOE-authorized persons may downgrade the category or declassify matter marked as containing RD. Only DOE or DoD authorized persons may downgrade the category or declassify matter marked as containing FRD.
