
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.23 Supplement to this rule: Security Requirements for Alternative Compensatory Control Measures (ACCM), Special Access Programs (SAPs), Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), Restricted Data (RD), Formerly Restricted Data (FRD), Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information (TFNI), and Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI).
####### e.g.,

(E) How to submit a challenge if they believe TFNI information (a guide topic) or matter containing TFNI is not properly classified.

(iii) Persons with access to RD, FRD, or TFNI must submit matter that potentially contains RD or FRD to an RD derivative classifier for review. If matter potentially contains TFNI, it must be submitted to a person trained to make TFNI determinations. Matter potentially containing RD, FRD, or TFNI must be reviewed, even if the potential RD, FRD, or TFNI is derived from the open literature. Prior to review, the matter must be marked as a working paper under 10 CFR 1045.140(c). If the matter is intended for pubic release and potentially contains RD or TFNI, it must be submitted to the DOE for review. If the matter is intended for public release and contains FRD, it must be submitted to the DOE or the DoD.

(iv) Only RD derivative classifiers may classify matter containing RD or FRD. RD derivative classifiers must receive initial training and refresher training every two years as required under 10 CFR 1045.120. The training must include the content for persons with access to RD and FRD, along with the following:

(A) The use of classification guides, classification bulletins, and portion-marked source documents to classify matter containing RD and FRD.

(B) What to do if applicable classification guidance is not available.

(C) Limitations on an RD derivative classifier's authority to remove RD or FRD portions from matter.

(D) Marking requirements for matter containing RD and FRD.

(v) Only persons with appropriate training may review matter to determine if it contains TFNI. Training must be completed prior to making determinations and every two years after. The training must include the content for persons with access to TFNI and the following:

(A) The markings applied to matter containing TFNI.

(B) Limitations on their authority to remove TFNI portions from matter.

(C) Only DOE authorized persons may determine that classified matter no longer contains TFNI.

(D) Only DOE-authorized persons may declassify matter marked as containing TFNI.

(E) The DOE must review matter that potentially contains TFNI for public release.

(vi) RD derivative classifiers must use approved classification guides, classification bulletins, or portion-marked source documents as the basis for classifying matter containing RD and FRD.

(vii) Persons trained to make TFNI determinations must use approved TFNI guidelines, classification guides, classification bulletins, or portion-marked source documents as the basis for classifying or upgrade matter containing TFNI.
