
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 117 - NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM OPERATING MANUAL (NISPOM)
###### ยง 117.23 Supplement to this rule: Security Requirements for Alternative Compensatory Control Measures (ACCM), Special Access Programs (SAPs), Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), Restricted Data (RD), Formerly Restricted Data (FRD), Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information (TFNI), and Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI).
####### Declassification.

(7)(i) No date or event for automatic declassification ever applies to RD, FRD, or TFNI documents, even if they contain classified NSI. RD, FRD, or TFNI documents remain classified until a positive action by a designated DOE official (for RD, FRD, or TFNI) or an appropriate DoD official (for FRD) is taken to declassify them.

(ii) RD derivative classifiers may remove RD or FRD from portion-marked source matter if the resulting matter is not for public release. RD derivative classifiers cannot declassify matter marked as containing RD, FRD, and TFNI. Matter that potentially contains RD or TFNI must be sent to designated individuals in the DOE and those containing FRD must be sent to designated individuals in the DoD for declassification or removal of the RD, FRD, or TFNI prior to public release.

(iii) Matter containing TFNI is excluded from the automatic declassification provisions of E.O. 13526 until the TFNI designation is properly removed by the DOE. When the DOE determines that a TFNI designation may be removed, any remaining classified information must be referred to the appropriate agency.

(iv) Any matter marked as or that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI within a document intended for public release that contains RD or FRD subject area indicators must be reviewed by the appropriate DOE organization.
