
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 148 - NATIONAL POLICY AND IMPLEMENTATION OF RECIPROCITY OF FACILITIES
###### Subpart B - Guidelines for the Implementation and Oversight of the Policy on Reciprocity of use and Inspections of Facilities
####### ยง 148.14 Procedures.

(a) Agencies that authorize, approve, certify, or accredit facilities shall provide to the SPB Staff a points of contact list to include names and telephone numbers of personnel to be contacted for verification of the status of facilities. The SPB Staff will publish a comprehensive directory of agency points of contact.

(b) After initial security authorization, approval, certification, or accreditation, subsequent reviews shall normally be conducted no more frequently than annually. Additionally, such reviews shall be aperiodic or random, and be based upon risk-management principles. Security Reviews may be conducted "for cause", to follow up on previous findings, or to accomplish close-out actions.

(c) The procedures employed to maximize interagency reciprocity shall be based primarily upon existing organizational reporting channels. These channels should be used to address alleged departures from established reciprocity requirements and should resolve all, including the most egregious instances of non-compliance.

(d) Two complementary mechanisms are hereby established to augment existing organizational channels: (1) An accessible and responsive venue for reporting and resolving complaints/reported instances of non-compliance. Government and industry reporting channels shall be as follows:
