
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 148 - NATIONAL POLICY AND IMPLEMENTATION OF RECIPROCITY OF FACILITIES
###### Subpart B - Guidelines for the Implementation and Oversight of the Policy on Reciprocity of use and Inspections of Facilities
####### ยง 148.14 Procedures.
######## Industry.

(ii)(A) Contractor employees are encouraged to bring suspected departures from the reciprocity provisions of the NISPOM to the attention to their Facility Security Officer (FSO) or Contractor Special Security Officer (CSSO), as appropriate, for resolution.

(B) Should the matter remain unresolved, the complainant (employee, FSO, or CSSO) is encouraged to report the matter formally to the Cognizant Security Office (CSO) for resolution.

(C) Should the CSO responses be determined inadequate by the complainant, the matter should be reported formally to the Senior Agency Official within the Cognizant Security Agency (CSA) for resolution.

(D) Should the Senior Agency Official response be determined inadequately by the complainant, the matter should be reported formally to the Director, information Security Oversight Office (ISOO) for resolution.

(E) The Director, ISOO, may revisit the matter with the Senior Agency Official or refer the matter to the agency head or the National Security Council as deemed appropriate.

(2) An annual survey administered to a representative sampling of agency and private sector facilities to assess overall effectiveness of agency adherence to applicable reciprocity requirements.

(i) In coordination with the D/SPBS, the Director, ISOO, as Chairman of the NISP Policy Advisory Committee (NISPPAC), shall develop and administer an annual survey to a representative number of cleared contractor activities/employees to assess the effectiveness of interagency reciprocity implementation. Administration of the survey shall be coordinated fully with each affected Senior Agency Official.

(ii) In coordination with the NISPPAC, the D/SPBS shall develop and administer an annual survey to a representative number of agency activities/personnel to assess the effectiveness of interagency reciprocity implementation. Administration of the survey shall be coordinated fully with each affected Senior Agency Official.

(iii) The goal of annual surveys should not be punitive but educational. All agencies and departments have participated in the crafting of these facilities policies, therefore, non-compliance is a matter of internal education and direction.

(e) Agencies will continue to review and assess the potential value added to the process of co-use of facilities by development of electronic data retrieval across government.
