
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 150 - COURTS OF CRIMINAL APPEALS RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
###### § 150.19 Reconsideration.

(a) The Court may, in its discretion and on its own motion, enter an order announcing its intent to reconsider its decision or order in any case not later than 30 days after service of such decision or order on appellate defense counsel or on the appellant, if the appellant is not represented by counsel, provided a petition for grant of review or certificate for review has not been filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, or a record of trial for review under Article 67(b) has not been received by that Court. No briefs or arguments shall be received unless the order so directs.

(b) Provided a petition for grant of review or certificate for review has not been filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, or a record of trial for review under Article 67(b) or writ appeal has not been received by the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, the Court may, in its discretion, reconsider its decision or order in any case upon motion filed either:

(1) By appellate defense counsel within 30 days after receipt by counsel, or by the appellant if the appellant is not represented by counsel, of a decision or order, or

(2) By appellate government counsel within 30 days after the decision or order is received by counsel.

(c) A motion for reconsideration shall briefly and directly state the grounds for reconsideration, including a statement of facts showing jurisdiction in the Court. A reply to the motion for reconsideration will be received by the Court only if filed within 7 days of receipt of a copy of the motion. Oral arguments shall not be heard on a motion for reconsideration unless ordered by the Court. The original of the motion filed with the Court shall indicate the date of receipt of a copy of the same by opposing counsel.

(d) The time limitations prescribed by this part shall not be extended under the authority of §§ 150.24 or 150.25 beyond the expiration of the time for filing a petition for review or writ appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, except that the time for filing briefs by either party may be extended for good cause.
