
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 151 - FOREIGN CRIMINAL AND CIVIL JURISDICTION
###### ยง 151.6 Procedures.
####### Trial observers and trial observers' reports.

(b)(1) U.S. observers at trials before courts of the receiving country (referred to in this section as "trial observers") must attend and prepare formal reports in all cases of trials by foreign courts or tribunals of dependents of DoD personnel, except for minor offenses. In cases of minor offenses, the observer will attend the trial at the discretion of the DCO, but will not be required to make a formal report.

(i) Unless directed by the DCO, trial observers are not required to attend all preliminary proceedings, such as scheduling hearings, but will attend the trial on the merits and other pre- and post-trial proceedings where significant procedural or substantive matters are decided.

(ii) Trial observer reports regarding dependents of DoD personnel will be handled and processed pursuant to DoD Instruction 5525.01(4)(b-c).

(2) The DCO, upon receipt of a trial observer report, will be responsible for determining whether:

(i) There was any failure to comply with the procedural safeguards secured by the pertinent status of forces agreement.

(ii) The accused received a fair trial under all the circumstances. Due regard should be given to those fair trial rights listed in DoD Instruction 5525.01 "Foreign Criminal and Civil Jurisdiction," Enclosure 5, "Fair Trial Guarantees" that are relevant to the particular facts and circumstances of the trial. A trial will not be determined to be unfair merely because it is not conducted in a manner identical to trials held in the United States.

(A) If the DCO believes that the procedural safeguards specified in pertinent agreements were denied or that the trial was otherwise unjust, the DCO will submit a recommendation as to appropriate action to rectify the trial deficiencies and otherwise to protect the rights or interests of the accused. This recommendation must include a statement of efforts taken or to be taken at the local level to protect the rights of the accused.

(B) The DCO will submit the recommendation to the Secretary of Defense, through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (with an advance copy to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense); copies must be provided to the geographic Combatant Commander concerned, the General Counsel and the Judge Advocate General of the Military Department concerned or, in the case of the USMC, to the General Counsel of the Navy and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or, in the case of the Coast Guard, the Judge Advocate General of the Coast Guard, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
