
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.4 Responsibilities.
####### Heads of Military Law Enforcement Organizations and Military Criminal Investigative Organizations, or their Designees,

(c) Theshall:

(1) Advise the Commander and Staff Judge Advocate (or Legal Advisor) of the Combatant Command concerned, or designees, of an investigation of an alleged violation of the Act. Such notice shall be provided as soon as practicable. In turn, the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, or designee, shall be advised so as to ensure notification of and consultation with the Departments of Justice and State regarding information about the potential case, including the host nation's position regarding the case. At the discretion of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, other agencies and organizations (such as the Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretary of the Military Department that sponsored the person into the foreign country) shall be informed, as appropriate. Effective investigations lead to successful prosecutions and, therefore, these cases warrant close coordination and cooperation between the Departments of Defense, Justice, and State.

(2) Provide briefings to, and coordinate with, appropriate local law enforcement authorities in advance or, if not possible, as soon thereafter as is practicable, of investigations or arrests in specific cases brought under the Act. If not previously provided to local law enforcement authorities, such briefings about the case shall, at a minimum, describe the Host Nation's position regarding the exercise of jurisdiction under the Act that followed from any briefings conducted pursuant to appendix A of this part.
