
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.4 Responsibilities.
####### Commanders of the Combatant Commands

(e) Theshall:

(1) Assist the DSS/DOJ on specific cases occurring within the Commander's area of responsibility. These responsibilities include providing available information and other support essential to an appropriate and successful prosecution under the Act with the assistance of the Commanders' respective Staff Judge Advocates (or Legal Advisors), or their designees, to the maximum extent allowed and practicable.

(2) Ensure command representatives are made available, as necessary, to participate in briefings of appropriate host nation authorities concerning the operation of this Act and the implementing provisions of this part.

(3) Determine when military necessity in the overseas theater requires a waiver of the limitations on removal in section 3264(a) of the Act and when the person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act shall be moved to the nearest U.S. military installation outside the United States that is adequate to detain the person and facilitate the initial proceedings prescribed in section 3265(a) of the Act and this part. Among the factors to be considered are the nature and scope of military operations in the area, the nature of any hostilities or presence of hostile forces, and the limitations of logistical support, available resources, appropriate personnel, or the communications infrastructure necessary to comply with the requirements of section 3265 of the Act governing initial proceedings.

(4) Annually report to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, by the last day of February for the immediately preceding calendar year, all cases involving the arrest of persons for violations of the Act; persons placed in temporary detention for violations of the Act; the number of requests for Federal prosecution under the Act, and the decisions made regarding such requests.

(5) Determine the suitability of the locations and conditions for the temporary detention of juveniles who commit violations of the Act within the Commander's area of responsibility. The conditions of such detention must, at a minimum, meet the following requirements: Juveniles alleged to be delinquent shall not be detained or confined in any institution or facility in which the juvenile has regular contact with adult persons convicted of a crime or awaiting trial on criminal charges; insofar as possible, alleged juvenile delinquents shall be kept separate from adjudicated delinquents; and every juvenile in custody shall be provided adequate food, heat, light, sanitary facilities, bedding, clothing, recreation, and medical care, including necessary psychiatric, psychological, or other care and treatment.

(6) As appropriate, promulgate regulations consistent with and implementing this part. The Combatant Commander's duties and responsibilities pursuant to this part may be delegated.
