
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Civilians Accompanying the Armed Forces.

(6)Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, the following persons are civilians accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States who are covered by the Act and the provisions of this part:

(i) Dependents of:

(A) An active duty service member.

(B) A member of the reserve component while the member was on active duty or inactive duty for training, but in the case of members of the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air National Guard of the United States, only when in Federal service.

(C) A former service member who is employed by or is accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.

(D) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including non-appropriated fund instrumentalities of the Department of Defense).

(E) A contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense.

(F) An employee of a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense.

(ii) In addition to the person being the dependent of a person who is listed in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, jurisdiction under the Act requires that the dependent also:

(A) Reside with one of the persons listed in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section.

(B) Allegedly commit the offense while outside the United States; and

(C) Not be a national of, or ordinarily resident in, the host nation where the offense is committed.

(iii) Command sponsorship of the dependent is not required for the Act and this part to apply.

(iv) If the dependent is a juvenile, as defined in section 153.3, who engaged in conduct that is subject to prosecution under section 3261(a) of the Act, then the provisions of chapter 403 of title 18, United States Code would apply to U.S. District Court prosecutions.
