
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Persons NOT Subject to the Act or the Procedures of this part.

(7)(i) Persons who are the nationals of, or ordinarily resident in, the host nation where the offense is committed, regardless of their employment or dependent status.

(ii) Persons, including citizens of the United States, whose presence outside the United States at the time the offense is committed, is not then as a member of the Armed Forces, a civilian employed by the Armed Forces outside the United States, or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.

(A) Persons (including members of a Reserve component) whose presence outside the United States at the time the offense is committed, is solely that of a tourist, a student, or a civilian employee or civilian accompanying any other non-federal agency, organization, business, or entity (and thereby can not be said to be employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces within the definitions of those terms as established by the Act, as modified) are not subject to the Act. Civilian employees of an agency, organization, business, or entity accompanying the Armed Forces outside the U.S. may, by virtue of the agency, organization, business, or entity relationship with the Armed Forces, be subject to the Act and this part.

(B) Persons who are subject to the Act and this part remain so while present, on official business or otherwise (e.g., performing temporary duty or while in leave status), in a foreign country other than the foreign country to which the person is regularly assigned, employed, or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.

(iii) Persons who have recognized dual citizenship with the United States and who are the nationals of, or ordinarily resident in, the host nation where the alleged conduct took place are not persons "accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States" within the meaning of the Act and this part.

(iv) Juveniles whose ages are below the minimum ages authorized for the prosecution of juveniles in U.S. District Court under the provisions of chapter 403 of title 18, United States Code.

(v) Persons subject to the UCMJ (See sections 802 and 803 of title 10, United States Code) are not subject to prosecution under the Act unless, pursuant to section 3261(d) of the Act, the member ceases to be subject to the UCMJ or an indictment or information charges that the member committed the offense with one or more other defendants, at least one of whom is not subject to the UCMJ. A member of a Reserve component who is subject to the UCMJ at the time the UCMJ offense was committed is not relieved from amenability to UCMJ jurisdiction for that offense. Such reserve component members are not subject to the Act unless section 3261(d)(2) of the Act applies. Retired members of a regular component who are entitled to pay remain subject to the UCMJ after retiring from active duty. Such retired members are not subject to prosecution under the Act unless section 3261(d)(2) of the Act applies.

(vi) Whether Coast Guard members and civilians employed by or accompanying the Coast Guard outside the United States, and their dependents, are subject to the Act and this part depends on whether at the time of the offense the Coast Guard was operating as a separate Service in the Department of Homeland Security or as a Service in the Department of the Navy.
