
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Residence Information.,Pennsylvania,Muniz,,United States,D'Anjou,

(2)To the extent that it can be determined from an individual's personnel records, travel orders into the overseas theater, passport, or other records, or by questioning upon arrest or detention, as part of the routine "booking" information obtained, an individual's last known residence in the United States shall be determined and forwarded promptly to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative. Seev.496 U.S. 582, at 601 (1990) andv.16 F. 3d 604 (4th Cir. 1993). The information is necessary to assist in determining what law enforcement authorities and providers of pretrial services, including those who issue probation reports, shall ultimately have responsibility for any case that may develop. Determination of the individual's "last known address" in the United States is also important in determining what Federal district would be responsible for any possible future criminal proceedings.

(i) Due to the venue provisions of section 3238 of 18 U.S.C. Chapter 212, Sections 3261-3267, the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative shall be consulted prior to removal of persons arrested or charged with a violation of the Act by U.S. law enforcement officials. The venue for Federal criminal jurisdiction over offenses committed on the high seas or elsewhere beyond the jurisdiction of a particular State or District (as would be required under the Act), is in the Federal district in which the offender is arrested or first brought. However, if the individual is not so arrested in or brought into any Federal district in the United States (i.e., is to be indicted, or information obtained, prior to the individual's return to the United States), then an indictment or information may be sought in the district of the person's last known residence. If no such residence is known, the indictment or information may be filed in the District of Columbia.

(ii) "First brought" connotes the location within the U.S. to which the person is returned in a custodial status.

(iii) "Last known residence" refers to that U.S. location where the person lived or resided. It is not necessarily the same as the person's legal domicile or home of record.

(iv) Prompt transmittal of venue information to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative in the United States may prove helpful in determining whether a particular case may be prosecuted, and may ultimately be a pivotal factor in determining whether the host nation or the U.S. shall exercise its jurisdiction over the matter.

(v) The Investigative Report, and any affidavit or declaration, as well as all other documents associated with a case shall be transmitted promptly by the command Staff Judge Advocate to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative. This may be accomplished through the use of facsimile or other means of electronic communication.
