
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Arrest.

(4)(i) Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 4 takes the jurisdiction of the Act into consideration in stating where arrest warrants may be executed: "Location. A warrant may be executed, or a summons served, within the jurisdiction of the United States or anywhere else a federal statute authorizes an arrest." The Advisory Committee Note explains that the new language reflects the enactment of the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act permitting arrests of certain military and Department of Defense personnel overseas.

(ii) The Act specifically authorizes persons in DoD law enforcement positions, as designated by the Secretary of Defense, to make arrests outside the United States, upon probable cause and in accordance with recognized practices with host nation authorities and applicable international agreements, those persons subject to the Act who violate section 3261(a) of the Act. Section 3262(a) of the Act constitutes authorization by law to conduct such functions pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 801-946 and therefore avoids possible restrictions of the Posse Comitatus Act regarding military personnel supporting civilian law enforcement agencies.

(iii) When the host nation has interposed no objections after becoming aware of the Act, arrests in specific cases shall, to the extent practicable, be first coordinated with appropriate local law enforcement authorities, unless not required by agreement with host nation authorities.

(iv) Military and civilian special agents assigned to the Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations are hereby authorized by the Secretary of Defense to make an arrest, outside the United States, of a person who has committed an offense under section 3261(a) of the Act. Civilian special agents assigned to Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations while performing duties outside the U.S. shall make arrests consistent with the standardized guidelines established for such agents, as approved in accordance with sections 1585a, 4027, 7480, and 9027 of title 10, United States Code.

(v) Military personnel and DoD civilian employees (including local nationals, either direct hire or indirect hire) assigned to security forces, military police, shore patrol, or provost offices at military installations and other facilities located outside the United States are also authorized to make an arrest, outside the United States, of a person who has committed an offense under section 3261(a) of the Act. This authority includes similarly-assigned members of the Coast Guard law enforcement community, but only when the Coast Guard is operating at such locations as a Service of the Department of the Navy.

(vi) Law enforcement personnel thus designated and authorized by the Secretary of Defense in this part may arrest a person, outside the United States, who is suspected of committing a felony offense in violation of section 3261(a) of the Act, when the arrest is based on probable cause to believe that such person violated section 3261(a) of the Act, and when made in accordance with applicable international agreements. Because the location of the offense and offender is outside the United States, it is not normally expected that the arrest would be based on a previously-issued Federal arrest warrant. Law enforcement personnel authorized to make arrests shall follow the Secretaries of the Military Departments' guidelines for making arrests without a warrant, as prescribed by 10 U.S.C. 1585a, 4027, 7480, and 9027. Authorizations issued by military magistrates under the UCMJ may not be used as a substitute for Federal arrest warrant requirements.

(vii) The foregoing authorization to DoD law enforcement personnel to arrest persons subject to Chapter 212 of title 18, United States Code, for violations of the Act is not intended as a limitation upon the authority of other Federal law enforcement officers to effect arrests when authorized to do so. (E.g., see 18 U.S.C. 3052 authorizing agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to make arrests "for any felony cognizable under the laws of the United States, 21 U.S.C. 878(a)(3) for the same authority for Drug Enforcement Administration agents, and 18 U.S.C. 3053 for the same authority for U.S. Marshals and their deputies.)
