
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Temporary Detention.

(5)(i) The Commander of a Combatant Command, or designee, may order the temporary detention of a person, within the Commander's area of responsibility outside the United States, who is arrested or charged with a violation of the Act. The Commander of the Combatant Command, or designee, may determine that a person arrested need not be held in custody pending the commencement of the initial proceedings required by section 3265 of the Act and paragraph (d) of this section. The Commander of the Combatant Command may designate those component commanders or DCO commanders who are also authorized to order the temporary detention of a person, within the commanding officer's area of responsibility outside the United States, who is arrested or charged with a violation of the Act.

(ii) A person arrested may be temporarily detained in military detention facilities for a reasonable period, in accordance with regulations of the Military Departments and subject to the following:

(A) Temporary detention should be ordered only when a serious risk is believed to exist that the person shall flee and not appear, as required, for any pretrial investigation, pretrial hearing or trial proceedings, or the person may engage in serious criminal misconduct (e.g., the intimidation of witnesses or other obstructions of justice, causing injury to others, or committing other offenses that pose a threat to the safety of the community or to the national security of the United States). The decision as to whether temporary detention is appropriate shall be made on a case-by-case basis. Section 3142 of title 18, United States Code provides additional guidance regarding conditions on release and factors to be considered.

(B) A person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who is to be detained temporarily shall, to the extent practicable, be detained in areas that separate them from sentenced military prisoners and members of the Armed Forces who are in pretrial confinement pending trial by courts-martial.

(C) Separate temporary detention areas shall be used for male and female detainees.

(D) Generally, juveniles should not be ordered into temporary detention. However, should circumstances warrant temporary detention, the conditions of such temporary detention must, at a minimum, meet the following requirements: juveniles alleged to be delinquent shall not be detained or confined in any institution or facility in which the juvenile has regular contact with adult persons convicted of a crime or awaiting trial on criminal charges; insofar as possible, alleged juvenile delinquents shall be kept separate from adjudicated delinquents; and every juvenile in custody shall be provided with adequate food, heat, light, sanitary facilities, bedding, clothing, recreation, and medical care, including necessary psychiatric, psychological, or other care and treatment. Appointment of a guardian ad litem may be required under 18 U.S.C. 5034 to represent the interests of the juvenile when the juvenile's parents are not present or when the parents' interests may be adverse to that of the juvenile.
