
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Custody and Transport of Persons While in Temporary Detention.

(6)(i) The Department of Defense may only take custody of and transport the person as specifically set forth in the Act. This is limited to delivery as soon as practicable to the custody of U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities for removal to the United States for judicial proceedings; delivery to appropriate authorities of the foreign country in which the person is alleged to have committed the violation of section 3261(a) of the Act in accordance with section 3263; or, upon a determination by the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary's designee, that military necessity requires it, removal to the nearest U.S. military installation outside the United States adequate to detain the person and to facilitate the initial appearance described in 3265(a) of the Act.

(ii) Responsibility for a detained person's local transportation, escort, and custody requirements remains with the command that placed the person in temporary detention for a violation of section 3261(a) of the Act. This responsibility includes:

(A) Attendance at official proceedings and other required health and welfare appointments (e.g., appointments with counsel, medical and dental appointments, etc.).

(B) Delivery to host nation officials under section 3263 of the Act.

(C) Attendance at Initial Proceedings conducted under section 3265 of the Act.

(D) Delivery under the Act to the custody of U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities for removal to the United States.

(iii) A person who requires the continued exercise of custody and transportation to appointments and locations away from the detention facility, including delivery of the person to host nation officials under section 3263 of the Act, may be transferred under the custody of command authorities or those law enforcement officers authorized to make arrests in paragraphs (b)(4)(iv) and (b)(4)(v) of this section. Transportation of a detainee outside an installation shall be coordinated with the host nation's local law enforcement, as appropriate and in accordance with recognized practices.

(iv) Military authorities retain responsibility for the custody and transportation of a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who is to be removed from one military installation outside the United States to another military installation outside the United States, including when the person is transferred under the provisions of section 3264(b)(5) of the Act. Unless otherwise agreed to between the sending and receiving commands, it shall be the responsibility of the sending command to make arrangements for the person's transportation and custody during the transport or transfer to the receiving command.

(v) In coordination with appropriate host nation authorities, U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities shall be responsible for taking custody of a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act and for the removal of that person to the United States for any pretrial or trial proceedings. DoD officials shall consult with the DSS/DOJ to determine which civilian law enforcement authority (i.e., U.S. Marshals Service, Federal Bureau of Investigations, Drug Enforcement Agency, or other Federal agency) shall dispatch an officer to the overseas' detention facility to assume custody of the person for removal to the United States. Until custody of the person is delivered to such U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities, military authorities retain responsibility for the custody and transportation of the person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act, to include transportation within the host nation to help facilitate the removal of the person to the United States under the Act.
