
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Release From Temporary Detention.

(7)When a person subject to the Act has been placed in temporary detention, in the absence of a Criminal Complaint or Indictment pursuant to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, only the Commander who initially ordered detention, or a superior Commander, or a Federal Magistrate Judge, may order the release of the detained person. If a Criminal Complaint or Indictment exists, or if a Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person detained, only a Federal Magistrate Judge may order the release of the person detained. If a Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person temporarily detained to be released from detention, the Commander who ordered detention, or a superior Commander, shall cause the person to be released. When a person is released from detention under this provision, the Commander shall implement, to the extent practicable within the commander's authority, any conditions on liberty directed in the Federal Magistrate Judge's order. When the commander who independently ordered the person's temporary detention without reliance on a Federal Magistrate Judge's order, or a superior commander, orders a person's release before a Federal Magistrate Judge is assigned to review the matter, the commander may, within the commander's authority, place reasonable conditions upon the person's release from detention.

(i) A person's failure to obey the conditions placed on his or her release from detention, in addition to subjecting that person to the commander's, or Federal Magistrate Judge's order to be returned to detention, may consistent with the commander's authority and applicable policy, laws, and regulations, subject the person to potential criminal sanctions, or to administrative procedures leading to a loss of command sponsorship to the foreign country, as well as the possibility of additional disciplinary or adverse action.

(ii) A copy of all orders issued by a Federal Magistrate Judge concerning initial proceedings, detention, conditions on liberty, and removal to the United States shall promptly be provided to the Commander of the Combatant Command concerned and the Commander of the detention facility at which the person is being held in temporary detention.
