
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Delivery of Persons to Host Nation Authorities.

(8)(i) Persons arrested may be delivered to the appropriate authorities of the foreign country in which the person is alleged to have violated section 3261(a) of the Act, when:

(A) Authorities of a foreign country request that the person be delivered for trial because the conduct is also a violation of that foreign country's laws, and

(B) Delivery of the person is authorized or required by treaty or another international agreement to which the United States is a party.

(ii) Coast Guard personnel authorized to make arrests pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section are also authorized to deliver persons to foreign country authorities, as provided in section 3263 of the Act.

(iii) Section 3263(b) of the Act calls upon the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to determine which officials of a foreign country constitute appropriate authorities to which persons subject to the Act may be delivered. For purposes of the Act, those authorities are the same foreign country law enforcement authorities as are customarily involved in matters involving foreign criminal jurisdiction under an applicable SOFA or other international agreement or arrangement between the United States and the foreign country.

(iv) No action may be taken under this part with a view toward the prosecution of a person for a violation of the Act if a foreign government, in accordance with jurisdiction recognized by the United States, has prosecuted or is prosecuting such person for the conduct constituting such offense(s), except upon the approval of the Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General (or a person acting in either such capacity). See section 3261(b) of the Act. Requests for an exception shall be written and forwarded to the Combatant Commander. The Combatant Commander shall forward the request to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, as representative for the Secretary of Defense, for review and transmittal to the Attorney General of the United States. At the discretion of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, other agencies and organizations (such as the Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary of the Military Department that sponsored the person into the foreign country) shall be informed, as appropriate.

(v) Except for persons to be delivered to a foreign country, and subject to the limitations of section 3264 of the Act and paragraph (e)(5) of this section, persons arrested for conduct in violation of the Act shall, upon the issuance of a removal order by a Federal Magistrate Judge under section 3264(b) of the Act, be delivered, as soon as practicable, to the custody of U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities. See paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section.
