
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Representation.,Civilian Defense Counsel.

(c)(1)(i) Civilian defense counsel representation shall not be at the expense of the Department of Defense or the Military Departments.

(ii) The Act contemplates that a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act shall be represented by a civilian attorney licensed to practice law in the United States. However, it is also recognized that in several host nations where there has been a long-standing military presence, qualified civilian attorneys (including lawyers who are U.S. citizens) have established law practices in these host nations to assist assigned U.S. personnel and to represent service members in courts-martial, or before host nation courts. With the consent of the person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who wishes to remain in the foreign country, these lawyers can provide adequate representation for the limited purpose of any initial proceedings required by the Act. When the person entitled to an attorney or requests counsel, staff judge advocates at such locations should assemble a list of local civilian attorneys for the person's consideration. The list shall contain a disclaimer stating that no endorsement by the United States government or the command is expressed or implied by the presence of an attorney's name on the list.

(A) To the extent practicable, military authorities shall establish procedures by which persons arrested or charged with a violation of the Act may seek the assistance of civilian defense counsel by telephone. Consultation with such civilian counsel shall be in private and protected by the attorney-client privilege.

(B) Civilian defense counsel, at no expense to the Department of Defense, shall be afforded the opportunity to participate personally in any initial proceedings required by the Act that are conducted outside the United States. When civilian defense counsel cannot reasonably arrange to be personally present for such representation, alternative arrangements shall be made for counsel's participation by telephone or by such other means that enables voice communication among the participants.

(C) When at least one participant cannot arrange to meet at the location outside the United States where initial proceedings required by the Act are to be conducted, whenever possible arrangements should be made to conduct the proceedings by video teleconference or similar means. Command video teleconference communication systems should be used for this purpose, if resources permit, and if such systems are not otherwise unavailable due to military mission requirements. When these capabilities are not reasonably available, the proceedings shall be conducted by telephone or such other means that enables voice communication among the participants. See section 3265 of the Act.

(D) The above provisions regarding the use of teleconference communication systems apply to any detention proceedings that are conducted outside the United States under section 3265(b) of the Act.

(E) Civilian defense counsel practicing in host nations do not gain Department of Defense sponsorship, nor any diplomatic status, as a result of their role as defense counsel. To the extent practicable, notice to this effect shall be provided to the civilian defense counsel when the civilian defense counsel's identity is made known to appropriate military authorities.
