
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Qualified Military Counsel.

(2)(i) Counsel representation also includes qualified military counsel that the Judge Advocate General of the Military Department concerned determines is reasonably available for the purpose of providing limited representation at initial proceedings required by the Act and conducted outside the United States. By agreement with the Department of Homeland Security, Coast Guard commands and activities located outside the United States shall seek to establish local agreements with military commands for qualified military counsel from the Military Departments to provide similar limited representation in cases arising within the Coast Guard. The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall establish regulations governing representation by qualified military counsel. These regulations, at a minimum, shall require that the command's Staff Judge Advocate:

(ii) Prepare, update as necessary, and make available to a Federal Magistrate Judge upon request, a list of qualified military counsel who are determined to be available for the purpose of providing limited representation at initial proceedings.

(iii) Ensure that the person arrested or charged under the Act is informed that any qualified military counsel shall be made available only for the limited purpose of representing that person in any initial proceedings that are to be conducted outside the United States, and that such representation does not extend to further legal proceedings that may occur either in a foreign country or the United States. The person arrested or charged shall also be required, in writing, to acknowledge the limited scope of qualified military counsel's representation and therein waive that military counsel's further representation in any subsequent legal proceedings conducted within a foreign country or the United States. The "Acknowledgement of Limited Representation," at appendix B of this part, may be used for this purpose. A copy of the "Acknowledgement of Limited Representation" shall be provided to the person arrested or charged under the Act, as well as to the qualified military counsel. The original acknowledgment shall be kept on file in the DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate.

(iv) Provide available information that would assist the Federal Magistrate Judge make a determination that qualified civilian counsel are unavailable, and that the person arrested or charged under the Act is unable financially to retain civilian defense counsel, before a qualified military counsel who has been made available is assigned to provide limited representation. See Analysis and Discussion of Section 3265 (c), Report Accompanying the Act.
