
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter E - Regulations Pertaining to Military Justice
##### PART 153 - CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
###### ยง 153.5 Procedures.
####### Gerstein,Pugh,

(5) Initial proceedings conducted pursuant to the Act and this part shall include the requirement for the person's initial appearance under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. The Federal Magistrate Judge shall determine whether probable cause exists to believe that an offense under section 3261(a) of the Act has been committed and that the identified person committed it. This determination is intended to meet the due process requirements to which the person is entitled, as determined by the U.S. Supreme Court inv.420 U.S. 103 (1975).

(6) Initial proceedings shall also include a detention hearing where required under 18 U.S.C. 3142 and the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. A detention hearing may be required when:

(i) The person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act has been placed in temporary detention and the intent is to request continued detention; or

(ii) The United States seeks to detain a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who has not previously been detained.

(7) A detention hearing shall be conducted by a Federal Magistrate Judge. When the person arrested or charged requests, the detention hearing be conducted while the person remains outside the United States, detention hearing shall be conducted by the same Federal Magistrate Judge presiding over the initial proceeding and shall be conducted by telephone or other means that allow for voice communication among the participants, including the person's defense counsel. If the person does not so request, or if the Federal Magistrate Judge so orders, the detention hearing shall be held in the United States after the removal of the person to the United States.

(8) In the event that the Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person's release prior to trial, and further directs the person's presence in the district in which the trial is to take place, the U.S. Attorney Office's representative responsible for prosecuting the case shall inform the military representative and the DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate.

(9) Under circumstances where the person suspected of committing an offense in violation of the Act has never been detained or an initial proceeding conducted, the presumption is that a trial date shall be established at which the defendant would be ordered to appear. Such an order would constitute an order under section 3264(b)(4) of the Act that "otherwise orders the person to be removed." The person's failure to appear as ordered shall be addressed by the Court as with any other failure to comply with a valid court order.

(10) The DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate shall assist in arranging for the conduct of initial proceedings required by the Act and this part, and shall provide a military representative to assist the U.S. Attorney's Office representative in presenting the information for the Federal Magistrate Judge's review. The military representative shall also provide any administrative assistance the Federal Magistrate Judge requires at the location outside the United States where the proceedings shall be conducted.
