
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 155 - DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL PERSONNEL SECURITY CLEARANCE PROGRAM
###### ยง 155.2 Applicability and scope.

This part:

(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG, DoD), and the Defense Agencies (hereafter referred to collectively as "the DoD Components").

(b) By mutual agreement, also extends to other Federal Agencies that include:

(1) Department of Agriculture.

(2) Department of Commerce.

(3) Department of Interior.

(4) Department of Justice.

(5) Department of Labor.

(6) Department of State.

(7) Department of Transportation.

(8) Department of Treasury.

(9) Environmental Protection Agency.

(10) Federal Emergency Management Agency.

(11) Federal Reserve System.

(12) General Accounting Office.

(13) General Services Administration.

(14) National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

(15) National Science Foundation.

(16) Small Business Administration.

(17) United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.

(18) United States Information Agency.

(19) United States International Trade Commission.

(20) United States Trade Representative.

(c) Applies to cases that the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) forwards to the "Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA)" for action under this part to determine whether it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue a security clearance for the applicant.

(d) Provides a program that may be extended to other security cases at the direction of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (ASD(CI)).

(e) Does not apply to cases in which:

(1) A security clearance is withdrawn because the applicant no longer has a need for access to classified information;

(2) An interim security clearance is withdrawn by the DISCO during an investigation; or

(3) A security clearance is withdrawn for administrative reasons that are without prejudice as to a later determination of whether the grant or continuance of the applicant's security clearance would be clearly consistent with the national interest.

(f) Does not apply to cases for access to sensitive compartmented information or a special access program.
