
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 155 - DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL PERSONNEL SECURITY CLEARANCE PROGRAM
###### ยง 155.4 Policy.

It is DoD policy that:

(a) All proceedings provided for by this part shall be conducted in a fair and impartial manner.

(b) A clearance decision reflects the basis for an ultimate finding as to whether it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue a security clearance for the applicant.

(c) Except as otherwise provided for by E.O. 10865, as amended, or this part, a final unfavorable clearance decision shall not be made without first providing the applicant with:

(1) Notice of specific reasons for the proposed action.

(2) An opportunity to respond to the reasons.

(3) Notice of the right to a hearing and the opportunity to cross-examine persons providing information adverse to the applicant.

(4) Opportunity to present evidence on his or her own behalf, or to be represented by counsel or personal representative.

(5) Written notice of final clearance decisions.

(6) Notice of appeal procedures.

(d) Actions pursuant to this part shall cease upon termination of the applicant's need for access to classified information except in those cases in which:

(1) A hearing has commenced;

(2) A clearance decision has been issued; or

(3) The applicant's security clearance was suspended and the applicant provided a written request that the case continue.
