
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 155 - DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL PERSONNEL SECURITY CLEARANCE PROGRAM
###### ยง 155.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense of Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence shall:

(1) Establish investigative policy and adjudicative standards and oversee their application.

(2) Coordinate with the General Counsel of the Department of Defense (GC, DoD) on policy affecting clearance decisions.

(3) Issue clarifying guidance and instructions as needed.

(b) The General Counsel of the Department of Defense shall:

(1) Establish guidance and provide oversight as to legal sufficiency of procedures and standards established by this part.

(2) Establish the organization and composition of the DOHA.

(3) Designate a civilian attorney to be the Director, DOHA.

(4) Issue clarifying guidance and instructions as needed.

(5) Administer the program established by this part.

(6) Issue invitational travel orders in appropriate cases to persons to appear and testify who have provided oral or written statements adverse to the applicant relating to a controverted issue.

(7) Designate attorneys to be Department Counsels assigned to the DOHA to represent the Government's interest in cases and related matters within the applicability and scope of this part.

(8) Designate attorneys to be Administrative Judges assigned to the DOHA.

(9) Designate attorneys to be Administrative Judge members of the DOHA Appeal Board.

(10) Provide for supervision of attorneys and other personnel assigned or attached to the DOHA.

(11) Develop and implement policy established or coordinated with the GC, DoD, in accordance with this part.

(12) Establish and maintain qualitative and quantitative standards for all work by DOHA employees arising within the applicability and scope of this part.

(13) Ensure that the Administrative Judges and Appeal Board members have the requisite independence to render fair and impartial decisions consistent with DoD policy.

(14) Provide training, clarify policy, or initiate personnel actions, as appropriate, to ensure that all DOHA decisions are made in accordance with policy, procedures, and standards established by this part.

(15) Provide for maintenance and control of all DOHA records.

(16) Take actions as provided for in ยง 155.6(b), and the additional procedural guidance in appendix A to this part.

(17) Establish and maintain procedures for timely assignment and completion of cases.

(18) Issue guidance and instructions, as needed, to fulfill the foregoing responsibilities.

(19) Designate the Director, DOHA, to implement paragraphs (b)(5) through (b)(18) of this section, under general guidance of the GC, DoD.

(c) The Heads of the DoD Components shall provide (from resources available to the designated DoD Component) financing, personnel, personnel spaces, office facilities, and related administrative support required by the DOHA.

(d) The ASD(CI) shall ensure that cases within the scope and applicability of this part are referred promptly to the DOHA, as required, and that clearance decisions by the DOHA are acted upon without delay.
