
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 156 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM (PSP)
###### ยง 156.4 Responsibilities.

(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)) shall:

(1) Develop, coordinate, and oversee the implementation of policy, programs, and guidance for the DoD PSP.

(2) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) and the General Counsel of the DoD (GC, DoD), develop policy for DoD personnel for the CAC personnel security investigation (PSI) and adjudication in accordance with HSPD-12; OMB Memorandum M-05-24; FIPS 201-1; and OPM Memorandum, "Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12."

(3) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (USD(AT&L)) and the GC, DoD, develop policy for contractor investigations for CAC adjudication, outside the purview of the National Industrial Security Program, under the terms of applicable contracts in accordance with HSPD-12; OMB Memorandum M-05-24; FIPS 201-1; the Federal Acquisition Regulation; the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement; and OPM Memorandum, "Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12."

(4) Issue guidance implementing the policy in this part.

(b) The Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence & Security (DUSD(I&S)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(I) shall:

(1) Ensure that the PSP is consistent, cost-effective, efficient, and balances the rights of individuals with the interests of national security.

(2) Develop and publish revisions to 32 CFR Part 154.

(3) Approve, coordinate, and oversee all DoD personnel security research initiatives and activities to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and fairness of the DoD PSP.

(4) Ensure that the Defense Security Service (DSS) provides education, training, and awareness support to the DoD PSP.

(5) Serve as the primary contact between DoD, the Red Cross, United Service Organizations, and other organizations with direct DoD affiliation for all matters relating to the DoD PSP.

(6) When appropriate, approve requests for exceptions to the DoD PSP relating to national security eligibility requirements for access to classified information except North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) classified information. Requests for exceptions involving access to NATO classified information shall be sent to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.

(7) Develop guidance, interpretation, and clarification regarding the DoD PSP as needed.

(8) Conduct oversight inspections of the DoD Components for implementation and compliance with DoD personnel security policy and operating procedures.

(9) In furtherance of coordinated Government-wide initiatives under E.O. 13467, develop a framework setting forth an overarching strategy identifying goals, performance measures, roles and responsibilities, a communications strategy, and metrics to measure the quality of security clearance investigations and adjudications to ensure a sound DoD PSP that will continue to meet the needs of DoD.

(c) The USD(AT&L) shall:

(1) Establish acquisition policy, procedures, and guidance, in coordination with the USD(I) that facilitate DoD Component compliance with the DoD PSP.

(2) Establish regulatory requirements within the Federal Acquisition Regulation and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation for contracts and agreements that require non-DoD personnel to adhere to personnel security procedures in the performance of a contract or agreement.

(d) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (USD(P)) is the approval authority for requests for exceptions to the DoD PSP involving access to NATO classified information.

(e) The GC, DoD shall:

(1) Provide advice and guidance as to the legal sufficiency of procedures and standards involved in implementing the DoD PSP and exercise oversight of the established administrative due process procedures of the DoD PSP.

(2) Perform functions relating to the DoD PSP including the maintenance and oversight of the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA).

(f) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:

(1) Designate a senior agency official, consistent with the provisions of E.O. 12968, as amended, who shall direct and administer the DoD PSP consistent with this part.

(2) Comply with the policy and procedures regarding investigation and adjudication for CAC issuance and distribute this guidance to local and regional organizations.

(3) Provide funding to cover Component requirements for PSIs, adjudication, and recording of results to comply with the DoD PSP.

(4) Enforce requirements for prompt reporting of significant derogatory information, unfavorable administrative actions, and adverse actions to the appropriate personnel security, human resources, and counterintelligence official(s), as appropriate, within their respective Component.

(5) Perform functions relating to the DoD Security Professional Education Development Program to ensure the security workforce in their respective Component has the knowledge and skills required to perform security functional tasks.

(6) Provide requested information and recommendations, as appropriate, on any aspect of this part and the DoD PSP to the USD(I).

(7) Enforce the requirement that DoD personnel security adjudication system(s) of records, within their respective Components, shall only be used as a personnel security system of records and shall not be used as a pre-hiring screening tool.
