
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 156 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM (PSP)
###### ยง 156.5 National security positions.
####### Adjudication.

(c)(1) Personnel security criteria and adjudicative standards are described in E.O. 12968, as amended; 32 CFR parts 147, 154 and 155; ICD 704, and DoD Regulation 5220.22-R, as applicable, in accordance with Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information and other types of protected information or assignment to national security positions. Adjudications of eligibility for national security positions, regardless of whether they involve access to classified information, must be made in accordance with the Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information.

(2) When an unfavorable personnel security determination is rendered:

(i) Individuals cannot be appointed or assigned to national security positions.

(ii) An individual currently occupying a national security position will be immediately removed from the national security position and placed, in accordance with agency policy, in an existing non-sensitive position if available. Placement in a non-sensitive position requires compliance with employment suitability standards. The national security position is not to be modified or a new position created to circumvent an unfavorable personnel security determination. The individual is to be placed in an appropriate status, in accordance with agency policy, until a final security determination is made. A final security determination is the granting, denial or revocation by an appropriate central adjudications facility or an appeal board decision, whichever is later.

(iii) To ensure consistency and quality in determinations of eligibility for national security positions, adjudicators must successfully complete the full program of professional training provided by the DSS Center for Development of Security Excellence (or equivalent training) and be certified through the DoD Professional Certification Program for Adjudicators within 2 years of program implementation or, for new hires, within 2 years of eligibility for certification testing.
