
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 156 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM (PSP)
###### ยง 156.6 Common access card (CAC) investigation and adjudication.
####### Appeals.

(d)CAC applicants or holders may appeal CAC denial or revocation.

(1) No separate administrative appeal process is allowed when an individual has been denied a CAC as a result of a negative suitability determination under 5 CFR Part 731, an applicable decision to deny or revoke a security clearance, or based on the results of a determination to disqualify the person from an appointment in an excepted service position or from working on a contract for reasons other than eligibility for a Federal Credential as described in OPM Memorandum, "Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12." If a later denial or revocation of a CAC results from an applicable denial or revocation of a security clearance, suitability decision, or other action for which administrative process was already provided on grounds that support denial or revocation of a CAC, no separate appeal for CAC denial or revocation is allowed.

(2) Initial civilian and contractor applicants who have been denied a CAC, and for whom an appeal is allowed under this paragraph, may elect to appeal to a three member board containing no more than one security representative from the sponsoring activity.

(3) Contractor employees who have had their CAC revoked, and for whom an appeal is allowed under this paragraph, may appeal to DOHA under the established administrative process set out in 32 CFR Part 155.

(4) Decisions following appeal are final.

(5) Individuals whose CACs have been denied or revoked are eligible for reconsideration 1 year after the date of final denial or revocation, provided the sponsoring activity supports reconsideration. Individuals with a statutory or regulatory bar are not eligible for reconsideration while under debarment.
