
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 156 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM (PSP)
###### ยง 156.6 Common access card (CAC) investigation and adjudication.
####### Foreign Nationals.

(e)Special considerations for conducting background investigations of non-U.S. nationals (foreign nationals) are addressed in OPM Memorandum, "Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12." The following criteria shall be met prior to CAC issuance to foreign nationals:

(1) The background investigation must be completed and favorably adjudicated before issuing CACs to foreign nationals.

(2) Foreign nationals are not eligible to receive CAC on an interim basis.

(3) At foreign locations:

(i) Foreign national background investigations may vary based on standing reciprocity treaties concerning identity assurance and information exchange that exist between the United States and its allies. This includes foreign military, civilian, or contract support with a visit status and security assurance that has been confirmed, documented, and processed in accordance with USD(P) policy.

(ii) The type of background investigation may also vary based upon agency agreements with the host country when the foreign national CAC applicant (such as a DoD direct or indirect hire) has not resided in the United States for at least 3 of the past 5 years or is residing in a foreign country. The investigation must be consistent with NACI, to the extent possible, and include a fingerprint check against the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) criminal history database, an FBI Investigations Files (name check) search, and a name check against the Terrorist Screening Database.

(4) At U.S.-based locations and in U.S. territories:

(i) Foreign nationals who have resided in the United States or U.S. territory for 3 years or more must have a NACI or greater investigation.

(ii) Components may delay the background investigation of foreign nationals who have resided in the U.S. or U.S. territory for less than 3 years until the individual has been in the U.S. or U.S. territory for 3 years. When the investigation is delayed, the Component may, in lieu of a CAC, issue an alternative facility access credential at the discretion of the relevant Component official based on a risk determination.
