
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 157 - DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
###### ยง 157.4 Policy.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/522006p.pdf

(f) Discretionary judgments used to render an adjudicative determination for issuing the CAC are inherently governmental functions and must only be performed by trained U.S. Government personnel who have successfully completed required training and possess a minimum level of investigation (NACI or equivalent in accordance with revised Federal investigative standards). Established administrative processes in 32 CFR part 156 and DoD Directive 5220.6, "Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program" (available at) must be applied.

(g) Adjudications rendered for eligibility for access to classified information, eligibility to hold a sensitive position, suitability, or fitness for Federal employment based on a NACI or higher level investigation may result in a concurrent CAC decision for that position.

(h) Favorable credentialing adjudications from another Federal department or agency will be reciprocally accepted in accordance with conditions stated in the procedural guidance in this part. Reciprocity must be based on final favorable adjudication only.

(i) CAC applicants or holders may appeal CAC denial or revocation in accordance with the conditions stated in the procedural guidance in this part. Appeals must be processed as indicated in the procedural guidance in this part.

(j) Non-U.S. nationals at foreign locations are not eligible to receive a CAC on an interim basis. Special considerations for conducting background investigations of non-U.S. nationals are addressed in U.S. OPM Memorandum, "Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12." An interim CAC may be issued to non-U.S. nationals in the U.S. or U.S. territories if they have resided in the U.S. or U.S. territory for at least 3 years, and they satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section and paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(A) of ยง 157.6.

(k) Individuals who have been denied a CAC or have had a CAC revoked due to an unfavorable credentialing determination are eligible to reapply for a credential 1 year after the date of final adjudicative denial or revocation.

(l) Individuals with a statutory or regulatory bar are not eligible for reconsideration while under debarment, see paragraph (d)(6) of ยง 157.6.
