
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 157 - DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
###### ยง 157.5 Responsibilities.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/522006p.pdf,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/514501p.pdf

(2) Perform functions relating to the DoD Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12 Program in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, "Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program" (available at) and DoD Directive 5145.01, "General Counsel of the Department of Defense" (available at) including maintenance and oversight of the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) and its involvement in contractor CAC revocations as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(B) of ยง 157.6 of this part.

(3) Coordinate on USD(P&R) implementation of CAC PSI and adjudication procedures, in accordance with the references cited in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for Service members and DoD civilian personnel, and USD(AT&L) implementation of USD(I) procedures for CAC PSI and adjudication in accordance with the terms of applicable contracts and the references cited in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, Federal Acquisition Regulation and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.

(e) The Heads of the DoD Components must:

(1) Comply with and implement this part.

(2) Provide resources for PSIs, adjudication, appeals, and recording of final adjudicative results in a centralized database.

(3) Require individuals sponsored for a CAC to meet eligibility requirements stated in DTM 08-003.

(4) Provide appeals boards for those individuals appealing CAC denial or revocation as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A) of ยง 157.6.

(5) Enforce requirements for reporting of derogatory information, unfavorable administrative actions, and adverse actions to personnel security, HR, and counterintelligence official(s), as appropriate.

(6) Require all PSIs submitted for non-DoD personnel to be supported by and comply with DoD PIV procedures in contracts that implement requirements of paragraphs 4.1303 and 52.204-9 of Federal Acquisition Regulation, current edition.

(7) Require all investigations and adjudications required for non-DoD personnel to be in response to a current, active contract or agreement and that the number of personnel submitted for investigation and adjudication does not exceed the specific requirements of that contract or agreement while ensuring compliance with HSPD-12.
