
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 157 - DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
###### ยง 157.6 Procedures.
####### CAC Adjudicative Procedures,Guidance for Applying Credentialing Standards During Adjudication.

(b)-(1)(i) As established in Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12, credentialing adjudication considers whether or not an individual is eligible for long-term access to Federally controlled facilities and/or information systems. The ultimate determination to authorize, deny, or revoke the CAC based on a credentialing determination of the PSI must be made after consideration of applicable credentialing standards in OPM Memorandum, "Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12."

(ii) Each case is unique. Adjudicators must examine conditions that raise an adjudicative concern, the overriding factor for all of these conditions is unacceptable risk. Factors to be applied consistently to all information available to the adjudicator are:

(A) The nature and seriousness of the conduct. The more serious the conduct, the greater the potential for an adverse CAC determination.

(B) The circumstances surrounding the conduct. Sufficient information concerning the circumstances of the conduct must be obtained to determine whether there is a reasonable basis to believe the conduct poses a risk to people, property or information systems.

(C) The recency and frequency of the conduct. More recent or more frequent conduct is of greater concern.

(D) The individual's age and maturity at the time of the conduct. Offenses committed as a minor are usually treated as less serious than the same offenses committed as an adult, unless the offense is very recent, part of a pattern, or particularly heinous.

(E) Contributing external conditions. Economic and cultural conditions may be relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk if the conditions are currently removed or countered (generally considered in cases with relatively minor issues).

(F) The absence or presence of efforts toward rehabilitation, if relevant, to address conduct adverse to CAC determinations.
