
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 157 - DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
###### ยง 157.6 Procedures.
####### Adjudication.

(4)The CAC adjudicators will consider the information provided by the CAC PSI in rendering a CAC credentialing determination. The determination will be unfavorable if there is a reasonable basis to conclude that a disqualifying factor in accordance with the basic CAC credentialing standards is substantiated, or when there is a reasonable basis to conclude that derogatory information or conduct relating to supplemental CAC credentialing standards presents an unacceptable risk for the U.S. Government.

(i) If a DoD Component or DOHA proposes to deny or revoke a CAC under conditions other than those cited in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the DoD Component or DOHA, as appropriate in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, must issue the individual a written statement (also known as a letter of denial (LOD) or revocation (LOR)) identifying the disqualifying condition(s). The statement must contain a summary of the concerns and supporting adverse information, instructions for responding, and copies of the relevant CAC credentialing standards and adjudicative guidelines from this section. The written LOD or LOR must be as comprehensive and detailed as permitted by the requirements of national security and to protect sources that were granted confidentiality, and as allowed pursuant to provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a. (Section 552a is also known and hereinafter referred to as "The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.")

(ii) The individual may elect to respond in writing to the DoD Component or DOHA, as appropriate, within 30 calendar days from the date of the LOD or LOR. Failure to respond to the LOD or LOR will result in automatic CAC denial or revocation.

(iii) When, subsequent to issuance of an interim or final CAC, the U.S. Government receives credible information that raises questions as to whether a current CAC holder continues to meet the applicable credentialing standards, the DoD Component may reconsider the credentialing determination using the procedures in this part.
