
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 157 - DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
###### ยง 157.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.uscis.gov/files/form/i-9.pdf

(A) The individual claimed it was not possible to provide two identity source documents from the list of acceptable documents in Form I-9, Office of Management and Budget No. 1115-0136, "Employment Eligibility Verification,"(available at) or provided only one identity source document from the list of acceptable documents.

(B) The individual did not appear in person as required by Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 201-2.

(C) The individual refused to cooperate with the documentation and investigative requirements to validate his or her identity.

(D) The investigation failed to confirm the individual's claimed identity.

(iii) No conditions can mitigate inability to verify the applicant's identity.

(3) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual has submitted fraudulent information concerning his or her identity.

(i) A CAC must not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual has submitted fraudulent information concerning his or her identity in an attempt to obtain the current credential.

(A) Substitution occurred in the identity proofing process; the individual who appeared on one occasion was not the same person that appeared on another occasion.

(B) The fingerprints associated with the identity do not belong to the person attempting to obtain a CAC.

(ii) No conditions can mitigate submission of fraudulent information in an attempt to obtain a current credential.

(4) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified documents, information protected by the Privacy Act, information that is proprietary in nature, or other sensitive or protected information.

(i) Individuals must comply with information-handling regulations and rules. Individuals must properly handle classified and protected information such as sensitive or proprietary information.

(ii) Individuals should not attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified documents or other sensitive or protected information. Unauthorized access to U.S. Government information or improper use of U.S. Government information once access is granted may pose a significant risk to national security, may compromise individual privacy, and may make public information that is proprietary in nature, thus compromising the operations and missions of Federal agencies.

(iii) A CAC must not be issued if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified documents, information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, information that is proprietary in nature, or other sensitive or protected information.

(iv) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include any attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified, sensitive, proprietary or other protected information.

(v) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) Since the time of the last act or activities, the person has demonstrated a favorable change in behavior.

(B) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's ability to safeguard protected information.

(5) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will use an identity credential outside the workplace unlawfully or inappropriately.

(i) A CAC must not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will use an identity credential outside the workplace unlawfully or inappropriately.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) Documented history of fraudulent requests for credentials or other official documentation.

(B) Previous incidents in which the individual used credentials or other official documentation to circumvent rules or regulations.

(C) A history of incidents involving misuse of credentials that put physical assets or personal property at risk.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's ability and willingness to use credentials lawfully and appropriately.

(6) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will use Federally-controlled information systems unlawfully, make unauthorized modifications to such systems, corrupt or destroy such systems, or engage in inappropriate uses of such systems.

(i) Individuals must comply with rules, procedures, guidelines, or regulations pertaining to information technology systems and properly protect sensitive systems, networks, and information. The individual should not attempt to use federally-controlled information systems unlawfully, make unauthorized modifications, corrupt or destroy, or engage in inappropriate uses of such systems. A CAC must not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will do so or has done so in the past.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) Illegal, unauthorized, or inappropriate use of an information technology system or component.

(B) Unauthorized modification, destruction, manipulation of information, software, firmware, or hardware to corrupt or destroy information technology systems or data.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's ability and willingness to conform to rules and regulations for use of information technology systems.
