
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 157 - DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
###### ยง 157.6 Procedures.
####### Supplemental Adjudicative Standards.

(d)(1) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the individual's misconduct or negligence in employment, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.

(i) An individual's employment misconduct or negligence may put people, property, or information systems at risk.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) A previous history of intentional wrongdoing on the job, disruptive, violent, or other acts that may pose an unacceptable risk to people, property, or information systems.

(B) A pattern of dishonesty or rule violations in the workplace which put people, property or information at risk.

(C) A documented history of misusing workplace information systems to view, download, or distribute pornography.

(D) Violation of written or recorded commitments to protect information made to an employer, such as breach(es) of confidentiality or the release of proprietary or other information.

(E) Failure to comply with rules or regulations for the safeguarding of classified, sensitive, or other protected information.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's current trustworthiness or good judgment relating to the safety of people and proper safeguarding of property and information systems.

(B) The individual was not adequately warned that the conduct was unacceptable and could not reasonably be expected to know that the conduct was wrong.

(C) The individual made prompt, good-faith efforts to correct the behavior.

(D) The individual responded favorably to counseling or remedial training and has since demonstrated a positive attitude toward the discharge of information-handling or security responsibilities.

(2) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the individual's criminal or dishonest conduct, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.

(i) An individual's conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions about his or her reliability or trustworthiness and may put people, property, or information systems at risk. An individual's past criminal or dishonest conduct may put people, property, or information systems at risk.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) A single serious crime or multiple lesser offenses which put the safety of people at risk or threaten the protection of property or information. A person's convictions for burglary may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable risk to the U.S. Government's physical assets and to employees' personal property on a U.S. Government facility.

(B) Charges or admission of criminal conduct relating to the safety of people and proper protection of property or information systems, regardless of whether the person was formally charged, formally prosecuted, or convicted.

(C) Dishonest acts (e.g., theft, accepting bribes, falsifying claims, perjury, forgery, or attempting to obtain identity documentation without proper authorization).

(D) Deceptive or illegal financial practices such as embezzlement, employee theft, check fraud, income tax evasion, expense account fraud, filing deceptive loan statements, or other intentional financial breaches of trust.

(E) Actions involving violence or sexual behavior of a criminal nature that poses an unacceptable risk if access is granted to federally-controlled facilities or federally-controlled information systems. For example, convictions for sexual assault may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable risk to the life and safety of persons on U.S. Government facilities.

(F) Financial irresponsibility may raise questions about the individual's honesty and put people, property or information systems at risk, although financial debt should not in and of itself be cause for denial.

(G) Deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts or deliberately providing false or misleading information to an employer, investigator, security official, competent medical authority, or other official U.S. Government representative, particularly when doing so results in personal benefit or which results in a risk to the safety of people and proper safeguarding of property and information systems.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor in nature, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur.

(B) Charges were dismissed or evidence was provided that the person did not commit the offense and details and reasons support his or her innocence.

(C) Improper or inadequate advice from authorized personnel or legal counsel significantly contributed to the individual's omission, of information. When confronted, the individual provided an accurate explanation and made prompt, good-faith effort to correct the situation.

(D) Evidence has been supplied of successful rehabilitation, including but not limited to remorse or restitution, job training or higher education, good employment record, constructive community involvement, or passage of time without recurrence.

(3) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the individual's material, intentional false statement, deception, or fraud in connection with Federal or contract employment, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.

(i) The individual's conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions about an individual's honesty, reliability, trustworthiness, and put people, property, or information systems at risk.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include material, intentional falsification, deception or fraud related to answers or information provided during the employment process for the current or a prior Federal or contract employment (e.g., on the employment application or other employment, appointment or investigative documents, or during interviews.)

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The misstated or omitted information was so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur.

(B) The misstatement or omission was unintentional or inadvertent and was followed by a prompt, good-faith effort to correct the situation.

(4) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the nature or duration of the individual's alcohol abuse without evidence of substantial rehabilitation, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.

(i) An individual's abuse of alcohol may put people, property, or information systems at risk. Alcohol abuse can lead to the exercise of questionable judgment or failure to control impulses, and may put people, property, or information systems at risk, regardless of whether he or she is diagnosed as an abuser of alcohol or alcohol dependent. A person's long-term abuse of alcohol without evidence of substantial rehabilitation may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable safety risk in a U.S. Government facility.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) A pattern of alcohol-related arrests.

(B) Alcohol-related incidents at work, such as reporting for work or duty in an intoxicated or impaired condition, or drinking on the job.

(C) Current continuing abuse of alcohol.

(D) Failure to follow any court order regarding alcohol education, evaluation, treatment, or abstinence.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The individual acknowledges his or her alcoholism or issues of alcohol abuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence (if alcohol dependent) or responsible use (if an abuser of alcohol).

(B) The individual is participating in counseling or treatment programs, has no history of previous treatment or relapse, and is making satisfactory progress.

(C) The individual has successfully completed inpatient or outpatient counseling or rehabilitation along with any required aftercare. He or she has demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations, such as participation in an alcohol treatment program. The individual has received a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified medical professional or a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized alcohol treatment program.

(5) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the nature or duration of the individual's illegal use of narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances without evidence of substantial rehabilitation, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.

(i) An individual's abuse of drugs may put people, property, or information systems at risk. Illegal use of narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances, to include abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs, can raise questions about his or her trustworthiness, or ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. For example, a person's long-term illegal use of narcotics without evidence of substantial rehabilitation may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable safety risk in a U.S. Government facility.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) Current or recent illegal drug use, serious narcotic, or other controlled substance offense.

(B) A pattern of drug-related arrests or problems in employment.

(C) Illegal drug possession, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, or possession of drug paraphernalia.

(D) Diagnosis by a duly qualified medical professional (e.g., physician, clinical psychologist, or psychiatrist) of drug abuse or drug dependence.

(E) Evaluation of drug abuse or drug dependence by a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized drug treatment program.

(F) Failure to successfully complete a drug treatment program prescribed by a duly qualified medical professional.

(G) Any illegal drug use after formally agreeing to comply with rules or regulations prohibiting drug use.

(H) Any illegal use or abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur (e.g., clear, lengthy break since last use; strong evidence the use will not occur again).

(B) A demonstrated intent not to abuse any drugs in the future, such as:
