
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 157 - DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
###### ยง 157.6 Procedures.
####### 3

() Changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used.

(C) Abuse of prescription drugs followed a severe or prolonged illness during which these drugs were prescribed and abuse has since ended.

(D) Satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program, including but not limited to rehabilitation and aftercare requirements without recurrence of abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified medical professional.

(6) A CAC will not be issued to a person if a statutory or regulatory bar prevents the individual's contract employment; or would prevent Federal employment under circumstances that furnish a reasonable basis to believe that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.

(i) The purpose of this standard is to verify whether there is a bar on contract employment, and whether the contract employee is subject to a Federal employment debarment for reasons that also pose an unacceptable risk in the contracting context. For example, a person's 5-year bar on Federal employment based on a felony conviction related to inciting a riot or civil disorder, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 7313, may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable risk to persons, property, and assets in U.S. Government facilities.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) A debarment was imposed by OPM, DoD, or other Federal agencies when the conduct poses an unacceptable risk to people, property, or information systems.

(B) The suitability debarment was based on the presence of serious suitability issues when the conduct poses an unacceptable risk to people, property, or information systems.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) Applicant proves the reason(s) for the debarment no longer exists.

(B) The debarment is job or position-specific and is not applicable to the job currently under consideration.

(7) A CAC will not be issued to a person if the individual has knowingly and willfully engaged in acts or activities designed to overthrow the U.S. Government by force.

(i) Individuals entrusted with access to U.S. Government property and information systems must not put the U.S. Government at risk.

(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:

(A) Illegal involvement in, support of, training to commit, or advocacy of any act of sabotage, espionage, treason or sedition against the United States of America.

(B) Association or agreement with persons who attempt to or commit any of the acts in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section with the specific intent to further those unlawful aims.

(C) Association or agreement with persons or organizations that advocate, threaten, or use force or violence, or use any other illegal or unconstitutional means in an effort to overthrow or influence the U.S. Government.

(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:

(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's current trustworthiness.

(B) The person was not aware of the person's or organization's dedication to illegal, treasonous, or seditious activities or did not have the specific intent to further the illegal, treasonous, or seditious ends of the person or organization.

(C) The individual did not have the specific intent to incite others to advocate, threaten, or use force or violence, or use any other illegal or unconstitutional means to engage in illegal, treasonous, or seditious activities.

(D) The individual's involvement in the activities was for an official purpose.
