
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 34 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
###### Subpart B - Post-award Requirements
####### Property Standards
######## ยง 34.21 Real property and equipment.
######### Use.

(d)If real property or equipment is acquired in whole or in part with Federal funds under an award, and the award provides that title vests conditionally in the recipient, the real property or equipment is subject to the following:

(1) During the time that the real property or equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient shall make it available for use on other projects or programs, if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the real property or equipment was originally acquired. Use of the real property or equipment on other projects will be in the following order of priority:

(i) Activities sponsored by DoD Components' grants, cooperative agreements, or other assistance awards;

(ii) Activities sponsored by other Federal agencies' grants, cooperative agreements, or other assistance awards;

(iii) Activities under Federal procurement contracts, or activities not sponsored by any Federal agency. If so used, use charges shall be assessed to those activities. For real property or equipment, the use charges shall be at rates equivalent to those for which comparable real property or equipment may be leased. The use charges shall be treated as program income.

(2) After Federal funding for the project ceases, or when the real property or equipment is no longer needed for the purposes of the project, the recipient may use the real property or equipment for other projects, insofar as:

(i) There are Federally sponsored projects for which the real property or equipment may be used. If the only use for the real property or equipment is for projects that have no Federal sponsorship, the recipient shall proceed with disposition of the real property or equipment, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(ii) The recipient obtains written approval from the grants officer to do so. The grants officer shall ensure that there is a formal change of accountability for the real property or equipment to a currently funded, Federal award.

(iii) The recipient's use of the real property or equipment for other projects is in the same order of priority as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
