
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 34 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
###### Subpart B - Post-award Requirements
####### Property Standards
######## ยง 34.21 Real property and equipment.
######### Disposition.

(e)(1) When an item of real property or equipment is no longer needed for Federally sponsored projects, the recipient shall proceed as follows:

(i) If the property that is no longer needed is equipment (rather than real property), the recipient may wish to replace it with an item that is needed currently for the project. In that case, the recipient may use the original equipment as trade-in or sell it and use the proceeds to offset the costs of the replacement equipment, subject to the approval of the responsible agency (i.e., the DoD Component or the Federal agency to which the DoD Component delegated responsibility for administering the equipment).

(ii) The recipient may elect to retain title, without further obligation to the Federal Government, by compensating the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the real property or equipment that is attributable to the Federal participation in the project.

(iii) If the recipient does not elect to retain title to real property or equipment (see paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section), or request approval to use equipment as trade-in or offset for replacement equipment (see paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section), the recipient shall request disposition instructions from the responsible agency.

(2) If a recipient requests disposition instructions, in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, the responsible grants officer shall:

(i) For equipment (but not real property), consult with the Federal program manager and judge whether the age and nature of the equipment warrant a screening procedure, to determine whether the equipment is useful to a DoD Component or other Federal agency. If a screening procedure is warranted, the responsible agency shall determine whether the equipment can be used to meet a DoD Component's requirement. If no DoD requirement is found, the responsible agency shall report the availability of the equipment to the General Services Administration, to determine whether a requirement for the equipment exists in other Federal agencies.

(ii) For either real property or equipment, issue instructions to the recipient for disposition of the property no later than 120 calendar days after the recipient's request. The grants officer's options for disposition are to direct the recipient to:

(A) Transfer title to the real property or equipment to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party provided that, in such cases, the recipient shall be entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the real property or equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred. If title is transferred to the Federal Government, it shall be subject thereafter to provisions for Federally owned property in ยง 34.22.

(B) Sell the real property or equipment and pay the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property that is attributable to the Federal participation in the project (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and fix-up expenses, if any, from the sale proceeds). When the recipient is authorized or required to sell the real property or equipment, proper sales procedures shall be established that provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.

(3) If the responsible agency fails to issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days of the recipient's request, as described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the recipient shall dispose of the real property or equipment through the option described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
