
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&L)) shall develop, coordinate, establish, and oversee the implementation of DoD policy for managing OCS.

(b) The Director, Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy (DPAP), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT&L), shall:

(1) Oversee all acquisition and procurement policy matters including the development of DoD policies for contingency contracting and the coordinated development and publication of contract prescriptions and standardized contract clauses in 48 CFR 207.503, 252.225-7040, and 202.101, and associated contracting officer guidance in 48 CFR PGI 225.74. This includes working collaboratively with OSD Principal Staff Assistants, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) representatives, and the DoD Component Heads in the development of OCS related policies and ensuring that contracting equities are addressed.

(2) Develop contingency contracting policy and implement other OCS related policies into DFARS in support of applicable contingency operations.

(3) Ensure implementation by contracting officers and CORs of relevant laws and policies in 48 CFR Subparts 4.1301, 4.1303, 52.204-9, 7.5, 7.503(e), 2.101, and 3.502; 48 CFR Subparts 207.503, 252.225-7040 and 202.101; and 48 CFR PGI 225.74.

(4) Propose legislative initiatives that support accomplishment of the contingency contracting mission.

(5) Improve DoD business processes for contingency contracting while working in conjunction with senior procurement executives across the DoD. Assist other OSD Principal Staff Assistants, CJCS representatives, and DoD Component Heads in efforts to improve other OCS related business processes by ensuring contracting equities and interrelationships are properly addressed.

(6) Support efforts to resource the OCS toolset under the lead of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Program Support (DASD(PS)) pursuant to paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section.

(7) Coordinate activities with other Government agencies to provide unity of effort. Maintain an open, user-friendly source for reports and lessons learned and ensure the coordinated development and publication, through participation on the FAR Council, of standardized contract clauses.

(8) As a member of the Contracting Functional Integrated Planning Team, collaborate with the Defense Acquisition University to offer education for all contingency contracting personnel.

(9) Participate in the OCS Functional Capability Integration Board (FCIB) to facilitate development of standard joint OCS concepts, policies, doctrine, processes, plans, programs, tools, reporting, and training to improve effectiveness and efficiency.

(10) In concert with the supported Combatant Commander, coordinate in advance of execution Executive Agency for Head of Contracting Activity requisite Operational Plans (OPLANS), Concept Plans (CONPLANS), and operations, where a lead service or a Joint Theater Support Contracting Command (JTSCC) will be established.

(c) The DASD(PS), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT&L) through the Assistant Security of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)), is responsible for oversight and management to enable the orchestration, integration, and synchronization of the preparation and execution of acquisitions for DoD contingency operations, and shall:

(1) Coordinate policy relating to field operations and contingency contractor personnel in forward areas and the battlespace. In cooperation with the Joint Staff, Military Departments, and OSD, serve as the DoD focal point for the community of practice and the community of interest for efforts to improve OCS program management and oversight.
