
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.5 Responsibilities.
####### http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/PS/spot.html

(1) Assigned contracting activities populate SPOT with the required data in accordance with Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness Publication, "Business Rules for the Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (SPOT)," current edition (see) and that information has been reviewed for security and operational security (OPSEC) concerns in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(E) of ยง 158.6.

(2) CAAF meet all theater and/or joint operational area (JOA) admission procedures and requirements prior to deploying to or entering the theater or JOA.

(3) Contracting officers include in the contract:

(i) Appropriate terms and conditions and clause(s) in accordance with 48 CFR 252.225-7040 and 48 CFR PGI 225.74.

(ii) Specific deployment and theater admission requirements according to 48 CFR 252.225-7040 and 48 CFR PGI 225.74, and the applicable CCDR Web sites.

(iii) Specific medical preparation requirements according to paragraph (c)(8) of ยง 158.6.

(iv) The level of protection to be provided to contingency contractor personnel in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of ยง 158.6. Contracting officers shall follow the procedures on the applicable CCDR Web sites to obtain theater-specific requirements.

(v) Government-furnished support and equipment to be provided to contractor personnel with prior coordination and approval of theater adjudication authorities, as referenced on the applicable CCDR Web sites.

(vi) A requirement for contractor personnel to show and have verified by the COR, proof of professional certifications/proficiencies as stipulated in the contract.

(4) Standardized contract accountability financial and oversight processes are developed and implemented.

(5) Requirements packages are completed to include all required documentation (e.g., letter of justification, performance work statement, nominated COR, independent Government estimate (IGE)) are completed and funding strategies are articulated and updated as required.

(6) CORs are planned for, resourced, and sustained as necessary to ensure proper contract management capabilities are in place and properly executed.

(7) Assigned contracting activities plan for, and ensure the contractor plans for, the resources necessary to implement and sustain contractor accountability in forward areas through SPOT or its successor.

(8) Contract support integration plans (CSIPs) and contractor management plans (CMPs) are developed as directed by the supported CCDR.

(9) The risk of premature loss of mission-essential OCS is assessed and the mitigation of the loss of contingency contractor personnel in wartime or contingency operations who are performing essential contractor services is properly planned for.

(10) Assigned contracting activities comply with theater business clearance and contract administration delegation policies and processes when implemented by CCDRs to support any phase of a contingency operation.

(11) Agency equities are integrated and conducted in concert with the CCDR's plans for OCS intelligence of the battlefield.

(12) The implementation of a certification of, and a waiver process for, contractor-performed deployment and redeployment processing in lieu of a formally designated group, joint, or Military Department deployment center.

(13) Support the effort to resource the OCS toolset under the lead of the DASD(PS) pursuant to paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section.

(l) The CJCS shall:
