
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.5 Responsibilities.
####### http://uscode.house.gov/download/title_10.shtml

(3) Perform OCS related missions and functions as outlined in the Joint Staff Manual 5100.01and the Chairman's authorities as defined in 10 U.S.C. (see).

(m) The geographic CCDRs and the CDRUSSOCOM (when they are the supported commander) shall:

(1) Plan and execute OCS program management, contract support integration, and contractor management actions in all applicable contingency operations in their AOR.

(2) Conduct integrated planning to determine and synchronize contract support requirements to facilitate OCS planning and contracting and contractor management oversight.

(3) In coordination with the Services and functional components, identify military capabilities shortfalls in all the joint warfighting functions that require contracted solutions. Ensure these requirements are captured in the appropriate CCDR, subordinate JFC, Service component and combat support agency CSIP or other appropriate section of the CONPLAN with time-phased force and deployment data (TPFDD), OPLAN or operation order (OPORD).

(4) Require Service component commanders and supporting Defense Agencies and DoD Field Activities to:

(i) Identify and incorporate contract support and operational acquisition requirements in supporting plans to OPLANs and CONPLANs with TPFDD, and to synchronize their supporting CSIPs, CMPs, and contracted requirements and execution plans within geographic CCDR OPLANs and CONPLANs with TPFDD.

(ii) Review their supporting CSIPs and CMPs and identify funding strategies for particular contracted capabilities identified to support each OPLAN and CONPLAN.

(iii) Develop acquisition-ready requirements documents as identified in CSIPs including performance work statements, IGEs, task order change documents, and sole source justifications.

(iv) Ensure CAAF and their equipment are incorporated into TPFDD development and deployment execution processes in accordance with CJCS Manual 3122.02C, JOPES Volume III, "Crisis Action Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data Development and Deployment Execution," June 19, 2006.
