
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.5 Responsibilities.
####### e.g.,

(11) Coordinate with the Office of the USD(P) to ensure special area, country, and theater personnel clearance requirements are current in accordance with DoD Foreign Clearance Guide, and coordinate with affected agencies (Intelligence Community agencies) to ensure that entry requirements do not impact mission accomplishment.

(12) Determine and distribute specific theater OCS organizational guidance in plans, to include command, control, and coordination, and Head Contracting Authority (HCA) relationships.

(13) Develop and distribute AOR/JOA-wide contractor management requirements, directives, and procedures into a separate contractor management plan as an annex or the appropriate section of the appropriate plan.

(14) Establish, staff, and execute appropriate OCS-related boards, centers, and working groups.

(15) Integrate OCS into mission rehearsals and training exercises.

(16) When contracts are being or will be executed in an AOR/JOA, designate and identify the organization responsible for managing and prescribing processes to:

(i) Establish procedures and assign authorities for adjudicating requests for provision of Government-furnished equipment and services to contractors when such support is operationally required. This should include procedures for communicating approval to the requiring activity and the contracting officer for incorporation into contracts.

(ii) Authorize trained and qualified contractor personnel to carry weapons for personal protection not related to the performance of contract-specific duties.

(iii) Establish procedures for, including coordination of, inter-theater strategic movements and intra-theater operational and tactical movements of contractor personnel and equipment.

(iv) Collect information on and refer to the appropriate Government agency offenses, arrests, and incidents of alleged misconduct committed by contractor personnel on or off-duty.

(v) Collect and maintain information relating to CAAF and selected non-CAAF kidnappings, injuries, and deaths.

(vi) Identify the minimum standards for conducting and processing background checks, and for issuing access badges to HN, LN, and TCN personnel employed, directly or indirectly, through Government-awarded contracts.

(vii) Remove CAAF from the designated operational area who do not meet medical deployment standards, whose contract period of performance has expired, or who are noncompliant with contract requirements.

(viii) Designate additional contractor personnel not otherwise covered by personnel recovery policy for personnel recovery support in accordance with DoD Directive 3002.01E.

(ix) Ensure that contract oversight plans are developed, and that adequate personnel to assist in contract administration are identified and requested, in either a separate contractor management plan as an annex of plans and orders and/or within appropriate parts of plans and orders.

(x) Develop a security plan for the protection of contingency contractor personnel according to paragraph (d)(5) of ยง 156.8.

(xi) Develop and implement theater business clearance and, if required, Contract Administration Delegation policies and procedures to ensure visibility of and a level of control over systems support and external support contracts providing or delivering contracted support in contingency operations.
