
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.5 Responsibilities.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/521056p.pdf

(17) Enforce the individual arming policy and use of private security contractors in accordance with 32 CFR part 159 and DoD Directive 5210.56 (see).

(18) Establish a process for reviewing exceptions to medical standards (waivers) for the conditions in paragraph (j) of ยง 158.7, including a mechanism to track and archive all approved and denied waivers and the medical conditions requiring waiver. Additionally, serve as the final approval/disapproval authority for all exceptions to this policy, except in special operations where the Theater Special Operations Command (TSOC) commander has the final approval or disapproval authority.

(19) Establish mechanisms for ensuring contractors are required to report offenses alleged to have been committed by or against contractor personnel to appropriate investigative authorities.

(20) Assign responsibility for providing victim and witness protection and assistance to contractor personnel in connection with alleged offenses.

(21) Ensure applicable predeployment, deployment, in-theater management, and redeployment guidance and procedures are readily available and accessible by planners, requiring activities, contracting officers, contractors, contractor personnel and other interested parties on a Web page, and related considerations and requirements are integrated into contracts through contract terms, consistent with security considerations and requirements.

(22) Ensure OCS preparation of the battlefield is vetted with intelligence agencies when appropriate.

(23) Integrate OCS planning with operational planning across all primary and special staff sections.

(n) The functional CCDRs utilizing OCS shall ensure their Commands follow the procedures in this part and applicable operational-specific guidance provided by the supported geographic CCDR.
