
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### Status of Contractor Personnel.,http://www.icrc.org/ ihl.nsf/FULL/375,http://www.icrc.org/ihl.nsf/ 385ec082b509e76c41256739003e636d/ 6756482d86146898c 125641e004aa3c5

(1)(i) Pursuant to applicable law, contracted services may be utilized in applicable contingency operations for all functions not inherently governmental. Contractor personnel may be utilized in support of such operations in a non-combat role as long as contractor personnel residing with the force in foreign contingencies have been designated as CAAF by the force they accompany and are provided with an appropriate identification card pursuant to the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War (see). If captured during international armed conflict, contractors with CAAF status are entitled to prisoner of war status. Some contractor personnel may be covered by the Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War (see) should they be captured during armed conflict. All contractor personnel may be at risk of injury or death incidental to enemy actions while supporting military operations. CAAF status does not apply to contractor personnel supporting domestic contingencies.

(ii) Contractor personnel may support applicable contingency operations such as by providing communications support; transporting munitions and other supplies; performing maintenance functions for military equipment; providing private security services; providing foreign language interpretation and translation services, and providing logistic services such as billeting and messing. Each service to be performed by contractor personnel in applicable contingency operations shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis in consultation with the cognizant manpower official and servicing legal office to ensure compliance with DoD Instruction 1100.22 and relevant laws and international agreements.
