
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### U.S. Laws.

(3)CAAF, with some exceptions, are subject to U.S. laws and Government regulations. For example, all U.S. citizen and TCN CAAF may be subject to prosecution pursuant to Federal law including, but not limited to, 18 U.S.C. 3261 (also known and hereinafter referred to as "The Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000 (MEJA), as amended"). MEJA extends U.S. Federal criminal jurisdiction to certain defense contractor personnel for offenses committed outside U.S. territory. Additionally, CAAF are subject to prosecution pursuant to 10 U.S.C. chapter 47 (also known and hereinafter referred to as "The Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)") in accordance with Secretary of Defense Memorandum ("UCMJ Jurisdiction Over DoD Civilian Employees, DoD Contractor Personnel, and Other Persons Serving With or Accompanying the Armed Forces Overseas During Declared War and in Contingency Operations," March 10, 2008). Other laws may allow prosecution of offenses by contactor personnel, such as 18 U.S.C. 7(9). Immediate consultation with the servicing legal office and the contracting officer is required in all cases of suspected MEJA and/or UCMJ application to conduct by CAAF personnel, especially in non-combat operations or in undeclared contingencies.
