
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### Continuation of Essential Contractor Services.

(3)To ensure that critical capabilities are maintained, it is necessary to assess the risk of premature loss of mission-essential contracted support. Supported and supporting commanders shall plan for the mitigation from the risk of premature loss of contingency contractor personnel who are performing essential contractor services. Planning for continuation of essential contractor services during applicable contingency operations includes:

(i) Determining all services provided overseas by defense contractors that must continue during an applicable contingency operation. Contracts shall obligate defense contractors to ensure the continuity of essential contractor services during such operations.

(ii) Developing mitigation plans for those tasks identified as essential contractor services to provide reasonable assurance of continuation during crisis conditions. These mitigation plans should be developed as part of the normal CSIP development process.

(iii) Ensuring the Secretaries of the Military Departments and the geographic CCDRs plan for the mitigation from the risk of premature loss of contingency contractor personnel who are performing essential contractor services. When the cognizant DoD Component Commander or geographic CCDR has a reasonable doubt about the continuation of essential services by the incumbent contractor during applicable contingency operations, the commander shall prepare a mitigation plan for obtaining the essential services from alternative sources (military, DoD civilian, HN, or other contractor(s)). This planning requirement also applies when the commander has concerns that the contractor cannot or will no longer fulfill the terms of the contract:

(A) Because the threat level, duration of hostilities, or other factors specified in the contract have changed significantly;

(B) Because U.S., international, or local laws; HN support agreements; or SOFAs have changed in a manner that affect contract arrangements; or

(C) Due to political or cultural reasons.

(iv) Encouraging contingency contractor personnel performing essential contractor services overseas to remain in the respective operations area.
