
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### Government Support.,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/ directives/corres/pdf/416102p.pdf

(7)Generally, contingency contracts shall require that contractors provide all life, mission, and administrative support to their employees necessary to perform the contract in accordance with DoD Instruction 4161.02 (see) and CCDR guidance as posted on the CCDR OCS Web site. As part of preparing an acquisition requirement, the requiring activity will include an estimate of the Government support that is required to be provided to CAAF and selected non-CAAF in accordance with 48 CFR 4.1301, 4.1303, 52.204-9, 7.5, 7.503(e), 2.101, and 3.502 and 48 CFR PGI 225.74. The requiring activity will confirm with theater adjudication authorities that the Government has the capacity, capability, and willingness to provide the support. However, in many contingency operations, especially those in which conditions are austere, uncertain, and/or non-permissive, the contracting officer may decide it is in the interest of the Government to allow for selected life, mission, medical, and administrative support to some contingency contractor personnel. Prior to awarding the contract, the contracting officer will request the requiring activity to verify that proper arrangements for Government support at the deployment center and within the designated operational area have been made. The contract shall specify the level of Government-furnished support to be provided to CAAF and selected non-CAAF and what support is reimbursable to the Government. The requiring activity will ensure that approved GFS is available.
