
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### e.g.,

(i) Contracting officers are the legal link between the requiring activity and the contractor. The contracting officer may appoint a designee (usually a COR) as a liaison between the contracting officer and the contractor and requiring activity. This designee monitors and reports contractor performance and requiring activity concerns to the contracting officer. The requiring activity has no direct contractual relationship with or authority over the contractor. However, the ranking military commander may, in emergency situations (enemy or terrorist actions or natural disaster), urgently recommend or issue warnings or messages urging that CAAF and non-CAAF personnel take emergency actions to remove themselves from harm's way or take other appropriate self-protective measures.

(ii) The contractor is responsible for disciplining contingency contractor personnel. However, in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of 48 CFR 252.225-7040, the contracting officer may direct the contractor, at its own expense, to remove and replace any contingency contractor personnel who jeopardize or interfere with mission accomplishment, or whose actual field performance (certification/professional standard) is well below that stipulated in the contract, or who fail to comply with or violate applicable requirements of the contract. Such action may be taken at Government discretion without prejudice to its rights under any other provision of the contract, including the Termination for Default. A commander also has the authority to take certain actions affecting contingency contractor personnel, such as the ability to revoke or suspend security access or impose restrictions from access to military installations or specific worksites.
