
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(iii) CAAF, with some restrictions (LN CAAF are not subject to MEJA), are subject to prosecution under MEJA and UCMJ in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 7(9), 2441, and 3261 and Secretary of Defense Memorandum, "UCMJ Jurisdiction Over DoD Civilian Employees, DoD Contractor Personnel, and Other Persons Serving With or Accompanying the Armed Forces Overseas During Declared War and in Contingency Operations," March 10, 2008. Commanders possess significant authority to act whenever criminal activity is committed by anyone subject to MEJA and UCMJ that relates to or affects the commander's responsibilities. This includes situations in which the alleged offender's precise identity or actual affiliation is to that point undetermined. Secretary of Defense Memorandum, "UCMJ Jurisdiction Over DoD Civilian Employees, DoD Contractor Personnel, and Other Persons Serving With or Accompanying the Armed Forces Overseas During Declared War and in Contingency Operations," March 10, 2008, sets forth the scope of this command authority in detail. Contracting officers will ensure that contractors are made aware of their status and liabilities as CAAF and the required training requirements associated with this status. Subject to local or HN law, SOFA, and the jurisdiction of the Department of State (consulate or chief of mission) over civilians in another country, commanders retain authority to respond to an incident, restore safety and order, investigate, apprehend suspected offenders, and otherwise address the immediate needs of the situation.

(iv) The Department of Justice may prosecute misconduct under applicable Federal laws, including MEJA and 18 U.S.C. 2441. Contingency contractor personnel are also subject to the domestic criminal laws of the local nation absent a SOFA or international agreement to the contrary. When confronted with disciplinary problems involving contingency contractor personnel, commanders shall seek the assistance of their legal staff, the contracting officer responsible for the contract, and the contractor's management team.

(v) In the event of an investigation of reported offenses alleged to have been committed by or against contractor personnel, appropriate investigative authorities shall keep the contracting officer informed, to the extent possible without compromising the investigation, if the alleged offense has a potential contract performance implication.
