
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/ directives/corres/pdf/ 200012p.pdf

(ii) Contracts shall require all contingency contractor personnel to comply with applicable CCDR and local commander force protection policies. Contingency contractor personnel working within a U.S. Military facility or in close proximity of U.S. Military forces may receive incidentally the benefits of measures undertaken to protect U.S. forces in accordance with DoD Directive 2000.12 (see). However, it may be necessary for contingency contractor personnel to be armed for individual self-defense. Procedures for arming for individual self-defense are:

(A) According to applicable U.S., HN, or international law; relevant SOFAs; international agreements; or other arrangements with local authorities and on a case-by-case basis when military force protection and legitimate civil authority are deemed unavailable or insufficient, the CCDR (or a designee no lower than the general/flag officer level) may authorize contingency contractor personnel to be armed for individual self-defense.

(B) The appropriate SJA to the CCDR shall review all applications for arming contingency contractor personnel on a case-by-case basis to ensure there is a legal basis for approval. In reviewing applications, CCDRs shall apply the criteria mandated for arming contingency contractor personnel for private security services provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section and 32 CFR part 159. In such cases, the contractor will validate to the contracting officer, or designee, that weapons familiarization, qualification, and briefings regarding the rules for the use of force have been provided to contingency contractor personnel in accordance with CCDR policies. Acceptance of weapons by contractor personnel shall be voluntary and permitted by the defense contractor and the contract. In accordance with paragraph (j) of 48 CFR 252.225-7040, the contract shall require that the defense contractor ensure such personnel are not prohibited by U.S. law from possessing firearms.

(C) When armed for personal protection, contingency contractor personnel are only authorized to use force for individual self-defense. Unless immune from local laws or HN jurisdiction by virtue of an international agreement or international law, the contract shall include language advising contingency contractor personnel that the inappropriate use of force could subject them to U.S. and local or HN prosecution and civil liability.
