
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### Mortuary Affairs.,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/ directives/corres/pdf/ 130022p.pdf

(8)(i) CAAF who die while in support of U.S. forces shall be covered by the DoD mortuary affairs program as described in DoD Directive 1300.22 (see). Every effort shall be made to identify remains and account for un-recovered remains of contractors and their dependents who die in military operations, training accidents, and other multiple fatality incidents. The remains of CAAF who are fatalities resulting from an incident in support of military operations deserve and shall receive the same dignity and respect afforded military remains.

(ii) The DoD may provide mortuary support for the disposition of remains and personal effects at the request of the Department of State. The USD(P&R) shall coordinate this support with the Department of State to include cost reimbursement, where appropriate. The disposition of non-CAAF contractors (LNs and TCNs) shall be given the same dignity and respect afforded U.S. personnel. The responsibility for coordinating the transfer of these remains to the HN or affected nation resides with the geographic CCDR in coordination and conjunction with the Department of State through the embassies or the International Red Cross, as appropriate, and in accordance with applicable contract provisions.
