
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.6 Procedures.
####### Redeployment Center Procedures.

(3)In most instances, the deployment center/site that prepared the CAAF for deployment will serve as the return processing center. As part of CAAF redeployment processing, the deployment center/site personnel will screen contractor records, recover Government-issued identification cards and equipment, and conduct debriefings as appropriate. The amount of time spent at the return processing center will be the minimum required to complete the necessary administrative procedures.

(i) A special effort will be made to collect all CACs from returning deployed contractors.

(ii) Contractor employees are required to return any issued clothing and equipment. Lost, damaged, or destroyed clothing and equipment shall be reported in accordance with procedures of the issuing facility. Contractor employees shall also receive a post-deployment medical briefing on signs and symptoms of diseases to watch for, such as tuberculosis. As some countries hosting an intermediate staging base may not permit certain items to enter their borders, some clothing and equipment, whether issued by the contractor, purchased by the employee, or provided by the Government, may not be permitted to exit the AOR. In this case, alternate methods of accounting for Government-issued equipment and clothing will be used according to CCDR or JFC guidance and contract language.
