
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.7 Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
####### General.

(a)

(1) DoD contracts requiring the deployment of CAAF shall include medical and dental fitness requirements as specified in this section. Under the terms and conditions of their contracts, defense contractors shall provide personnel who meet such medical and dental requirements as specified in their contracts.

(2) The geographic CCDR will establish theater-specific medical qualifications. When exceptions to these standards are requested through the contracting officer, the geographic CCDR will establish a process for reviewing such exceptions and ensuring that a mechanism is in place to track and archive all approved and denied waivers, including the medical condition requiring the waiver.

(3) The geographic CCDR shall also ensure that processes and procedures are in place to remove contractor personnel in theater who are not medically qualified, once so identified by a healthcare provider. The geographic CCDR shall ensure appropriate language regarding procedures and criteria for requiring removal of contractor personnel identified as no longer medically qualified is developed, is posted on the CCDR OCS Web site, and also ensure contracting officers incorporate the same into all contracts for performance in the AOR.

(4) Unless otherwise stated in the contract, all pre-, during-, and post-deployment medical evaluations and treatment are the responsibility of the contractor.
