
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.7 Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
####### Medical and Dental Evaluations.,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/620004p.pdf

(b)(1) All CAAF deploying in support of a contingency operation must be medically, dentally, and psychologically fit for deployment as stated in DoD Directive 6200.04 (see). Fitness specifically includes the ability to accomplish the tasks and duties unique to a particular operation and the ability to tolerate the environmental and operational conditions of the deployed location. Under the terms and conditions of their contracts, defense contractors will provide medically, dentally, and psychologically fit contingency contractor personnel to perform contracted duties.

(2) Just as military personnel must pass a complete health evaluation, CAAF shall have a similar evaluation based on the functional requirements of the job. All CAAF must undergo a medical and dental assessment within 12 months prior to arrival at the designated deployment center or Government-authorized contractor-performed deployment processing facility. This assessment should emphasize diagnosing cardiovascular, pulmonary, orthopedic, neurologic, endocrinologic, dermatologic, psychological, visual, auditory, dental, and other systemic disease conditions that may preclude performing the functional requirements of the contract, especially in the austere work environments encountered in some contingency operations.

(3) In accordance with DoD Instruction 6490.03, contracts shall require that CAAF complete a pre-deployment health assessment in the DMSS at the designated deployment center or a Government-authorized contractor-performed deployment processing facility. These assessments will only be used by the DoD to accomplish population-wide assessments for epidemiological purposes, and to help identify trends related to health outcomes and possible exposures. They will not be used for individual purposes in diagnosing conditions or informing individuals they require a medical followup. Diagnosing conditions requiring medical referral is a function of the contractor.

(4) In general, CAAF who have any of the medical conditions in paragraph (j) of this section, based on an individual assessment pursuant to DoD Instruction 6490.03, should not deploy.

(5) Individuals who are deemed not medically qualified at the deployment center or at any period during the deployment process based upon an individual assessment, or who require extensive preventive dental care (see paragraph (j)(2)(xxv) of this section) will not be authorized to deploy.
