
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.7 Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
####### Armed Forces Repository of Specimen Samples for the Identification of Remains (AFRSSIR).,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/515430p.pdf

(h)For identification of remains purposes, all CAAF who are U.S. citizens shall obtain a dental panograph and provide a specimen sample suitable for DNA analysis prior to or during deployment processing. The DoD Components shall ensure that all contracts require CAAF who are U.S. citizens to provide specimens for AFRSSIR as a condition of employment according to DoD Instruction 5154.30 (see). Specimens shall be collected and managed as provided in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(3) of this section.

(1) All CAAF who are U.S. citizens processing through a deployment center will have a sample collected and forwarded to the AFRSSIR for storage. Contracts shall require contractors to verify in SPOT or its successor that AFRSSIR has received the sample or that the DNA reference specimen sample has been collected by the contractor.

(2) If CAAF who are U.S. citizens do not process through a deployment center or the defense contractor is authorized to process its own personnel, the contract shall require that the contractor make its own arrangements for collection and storage of the DNA reference specimen through a private facility, or arrange for the storage of the specimen by contacting AFRSSIR. Regardless of what specimen collection and storage arrangements are made, all defense contractors deploying CAAF who are U.S. citizens must provide the CAAF name and Social Security number, location of the sample, facility contact information, and retrieval plan to AFRSSIR. If AFRSSIR is not used and a CAAF who is a U.S. citizen becomes a casualty, the defense contractor must be able to retrieve identification media for use by the Armed Forces Medical Examiner (AFME) or other competent authority to conduct a medical-legal investigation of the incident and identification of the victim(s). These records must be retrievable within 24 hours for forwarding to the AFME when there is a reported incident that would necessitate its use for human remains identification purposes. The defense contractor shall have access to:

(i) Completed DD Form 93 or equivalent record.

(ii) Location of employee medical and dental records, including panograph.

(iii) Location of employee fingerprint record.
