
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.7 Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
####### Conditions Usually Precluding Medical Clearance.

(j)(1) This section is not intended to be comprehensive. A list of all possible diagnoses and their severity that should not be approved would be too expansive to list in this part. In general, individuals with the conditions in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (j)(2)(xxx) of this section, based on an individual assessment pursuant to DoD Instruction 6490.03, will not normally be approved for deployment. The medical evaluator must carefully consider whether climate; altitude; nature of available food and housing; availability of medical, behavioral health, and dental services; or other environmental and operational factors may be hazardous to the deploying person's health because of a known physical or mental condition.

(2) Medical clearance for deployment of persons with any of the conditions in this section shall be granted only after consultation with the appropriate Combatant Command surgeon. The Combatant Command surgeon makes recommendations and serves as the geographic CCDR advisor; however, the geographic CCDR is the final approval or disapproval authority except as provided in paragraph (k)(3) of this section. The Combatant Command surgeon can determine if adequate treatment facilities and specialist support is available at the duty station for:

(i) Physical or psychological conditions resulting in the inability to effectively wear IPE, including protective mask, ballistic helmet, body armor, and CBRN protective ensemble, regardless of the nature of the condition that causes the inability to wear the equipment if wearing such equipment may be reasonably anticipated or required in the deployed location.

(ii) Conditions that prohibit immunizations or use of FHPPs required for the specific deployment. Depending on the applicable threat assessment, required FHPPs, vaccines, and countermeasures may include atropine, epinephrine and/or 2-pam chloride auto-injectors, certain antimicrobials, antimalarials, and pyridostigmine bromide.

(iii) Any chronic medical condition that requires frequent clinical visits, that fails to respond to adequate conservative treatment, or that necessitates significant limitation of physical activity.
