
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.7 Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
####### e.g.,

(iv) Any medical condition that requires durable medical equipment or appliances or that requires periodic evaluation and/or treatment by medical specialists not readily available in theater (CPAC machine for sleep apnea).

(v) Any unresolved acute or chronic illness or injury that would impair duty performance in a deployed environment during the duration of the deployment.

(vi) Active tuberculosis or known blood-borne diseases that may be transmitted to others in a deployed environment. (For HIV infections, see paragraph (j)(2)(xvii) of this section.)

(vii) An acute exacerbation of a physical or mental health condition that could affect duty performance.

(viii) Recurrent loss of consciousness for any reason.

(ix) Any medical condition that could result in sudden incapacitation including a history of stroke within the last 24 months, seizure disorders, and diabetes mellitus type I or II, treated with insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents.

(x) Hypertension not controlled with medication or that requires frequent monitoring to achieve control.

(xi) Pregnancy.

(xii) Cancer for which the individual is receiving continuing treatment or that requires periodic specialty medical evaluations during the anticipated duration of the deployment.

(xiii) Precancerous lesions that have not been treated and/or evaluated and that require treatment and/or evaluation during the anticipated duration of the deployment.

(xiiii) Any medical condition that requires surgery or for which surgery has been performed that requires rehabilitation or additional surgery to remove devices.

(xv) Asthma that has a Forced Expiratory Volume-1 (FEV-1) of less than or equal to 50 percent of predicted FEV-1 despite appropriate therapy, that has required hospitalization at least 2 times in the last 12 months, or that requires daily systemic oral or injectable steroids.

(xvi) Any musculoskeletal condition that significantly impairs performance of duties in a deployed environment.

(xvii) HIV antibody positive with the presence of progressive clinical illness or immunological deficiency. The Combatant Command surgeon should be consulted in all instances of HIV seropositivity before medical clearance for deployment.

(xviii) Hearing loss. The requirement for use of a hearing aid does not necessarily preclude deployment. However, the individual must have sufficient unaided hearing to perform duties safely.

(xviiii) Loss of vision. Best corrected visual acuity must meet job requirements to safely perform duties.

(xx) Symptomatic coronary artery disease.

(xxi) History of myocardial infarction within 1 year of deployment.

(xxii) History of coronary artery bypass graft, coronary artery angioplasty, carotid endarterectomy, other arterial stenting, or aneurysm repair within 1 year of deployment.

(xxiii) Cardiac dysrhythmias or arrhythmias, either symptomatic or requiring medical or electrophysiologic control (presence of an implanted defibrillator and/or pacemaker).

(xxiv) Heart failure.

(xxv) Individuals without a dental exam within the last 12 months or who are likely to require dental treatment or reevaluation for oral conditions that are likely to result in dental emergencies within 12 months.
