
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 158 - OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT
###### ยง 158.7 Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
####### Exceptions to Medical Standards (Waivers).

(k)If a contractor believes an individual CAAF employee with one of the conditions listed in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (j)(2)(xxx) of this section can accomplish his or her tasks and duties and tolerate the environmental and operational conditions of the deployed location, the contractor may request a waiver for that individual through the contracting officer or designee.

(1) Waivers are unlikely for contractor personnel and an explanation should be given as to why other persons who meet the medical standards could not be identified to fulfill the deployed duties. Waivers and requests for waivers will include a summary of a detailed medical evaluation or consultation concerning the medical condition(s). Maximization of mission accomplishment and the protection of the health of personnel are the ultimate goals. Justification will include statements indicating the CAAF member's experience, position to be placed in, any known specific hazards of the position, anticipated availability and need for care while deployed, and the benefit expected to accrue from the waiver.

(2) Medical clearance to deploy or continue serving in a deployed environment for persons with any of the conditions in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (j)(2)(xxx) of this section must have the concurrence by the Combatant Command surgeon, or his designee, who will recommend approval or disapproval to the geographic CCDR. The geographic CCDR, or his designee, is the final decision authority for approvals and disapprovals.

(3) For CAAF employees working with Special Operations Forces personnel who have conditions in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (j)(2)(xxx) of this section, medical clearance may be granted after consultation with the appropriate Theater Special Operations Command (TSOC) surgeon. The TSOC surgeon, in coordination with the Combatant Command surgeon and senior in-theater medical authority, will ascertain the capability and availability of treatment facilities and specialist support in the general duty area versus the operational criticality of the particular SOF member. The TSOC surgeon will recommend approval or disapproval to the TSOC Commander. The TSOC Commander is the final approval or disapproval authority.
