
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 159 - PRIVATE SECURITY CONTRACTORS (PSCs) OPERATING IN CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS, HUMANITARIAN OR PEACE OPERATIONS, OR OTHER MILITARY OPERATIONS OR EXERCISES
###### ยง 159.5 Responsibilities.
####### https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/110022p.pdf

(1) Provide guidance and procedures, as necessary and consistent with the principles established by DoD Directive 3020.49, DoD Instruction 3020.41, DoD Instruction 1100.22, "Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix" (available at); DFARS, 48 CFR 225.302, and this part, for the selection, training, accountability, and equipping of such PSC personnel and the conduct of PSCs and PSC personnel within their AOR. Individual training and qualification standards shall meet, at a minimum, one of the Military Departments' established standards. Within a Combatant Command (CCMD) with a designated geographic AOR, a sub unified commander or JFC shall be responsible for developing and issuing implementing procedures as warranted by the situation, operation, and environment, in consultation with the relevant COM in designated areas of combat operations or other significant military operations.

(2) Through the Contracting Officer, the PSC should acknowledge that its personnel understand their obligation to comply with the terms and conditions of applicable covered contracts.

(3) Issue written authorization to the PSC identifying individual PSC personnel who are authorized to be armed. Rules for the Use of Force shall be included with the written authorization, if not previously provided. Rules for the Use of Force shall conform to the guidance in DoD Directive 5210.56 and the CJCS Instruction 3121.01B, "Standing Rules of Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for U.S. Forces." Offerors' and contractors' access to the Rules for the Use of Force may be controlled in accordance with the terms of FAR, 48 CFR 52.204-2, "Security Requirements"; DFARS, 48 CFR 252.204-7000, "Disclosure of Information"; or both.

(4) Ensure that the procedures, orders, directives, and instructions prescribed in ยง 159.6 are available through a single location (including an internet website, consistent with security considerations and requirements).

(f) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:

(1) Ensure that all private security-related requirement documents are in compliance with the procedures listed in ยง 159.6 and the guidance and procedures issued by the CCMD of the applicable geographic AOR.

(2) Ensure private security-related solicitations and contracts contain the appropriate clauses in accordance with the applicable FAR and DFARS clauses and include additional mission-specific requirements as appropriate.
