
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 159 - PRIVATE SECURITY CONTRACTORS (PSCs) OPERATING IN CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS, HUMANITARIAN OR PEACE OPERATIONS, OR OTHER MILITARY OPERATIONS OR EXERCISES
###### ยง 159.6 Procedures.
####### Standing Combatant Command (CCMD) guidance and procedures.,https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/231101p.pdf?ver=2020-07-02-143157-007,https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/520008rm.pdf

(a)Each CCDR with a geographic AOR shall develop and publish guidance and procedures for PSCs and PSC personnel operating during contingency operations, humanitarian or peace operations, or other military operations or exercises within their AOR, consistent with applicable law; this part; applicable Military Department publications; and other applicable DoD issuances including DoD Directive 3020.49, DoD Instruction 1100.22, "Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix," FAR, DFARS, DoD Instruction 3020.41, DoD Directive 2311.01E, "DoD Law of War Program" (available at); DoD 5200.08-R, "Physical Security Program" (available at); CJCS Instruction 3121.01B,, and DoD Directive 5210.56. The guidance and procedures shall:

(1) Contain, at a minimum, procedures to implement the following processes, and identify the organization responsible for managing these processes:

(i) Registering, processing, accounting for and keeping appropriate records of PSCs and PSC personnel in accordance with DoD Instruction 3020.41.

(ii) PSC verification that PSC personnel meet all the legal, training, and qualification requirements for authorization to carry a weapon in accordance with the terms and conditions of their contract and host country law. Weapons accountability procedures will be established and approved prior to the weapons authorization.

(iii) Arming of PSC personnel. Requests for permission to arm PSC personnel shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the appropriate Staff Judge Advocate to the CCDR of the geographic AOR (or a designee) to ensure there is a legal basis for approval. The request will then be approved or denied by the CCDR of the geographic AOR or a specifically identified designee, no lower than the flag officer level. Requests to arm non-DOD PSC personnel shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with ยง 159.4(c). Requests for permission to arm all PSC personnel shall include:

(A) A description of where PSC personnel will operate, the anticipated threat, and what property or personnel such personnel are intended to protect, if any.

(B) A description of how the movement of PSC personnel will be coordinated through areas of increased risk or planned or ongoing military operations, including how PSC personnel will be rapidly identified by members of the U.S. Armed Forces.

(C) A communication plan, to include a description of how relevant threat information will be shared between PSC personnel and U.S. military forces and how appropriate assistance will be provided to PSC personnel who become engaged in hostile situations. DoD contractors performing private security functions are only to be used in accordance with DoD Instruction 1100.22, "Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix,"that is, they are limited to a defensive response to hostile acts or demonstrated hostile intent.

(D) Documentation of individual training covering weapons familiarization and qualification, rules for the use of force, limits on the use of force including whether defense of others is consistent with host nation Status of Forces Agreements or local law, the distinction between the rules of engagement applicable to military forces and the prescribed rules for the use of force that control the use of weapons by civilians, and the Law of Armed Conflict.

(E) Written acknowledgment by the PSC and its individual PSC personnel, after investigation of background of PSC personnel by the contractor, verifying such personnel are not prohibited under U.S. law to possess firearms.

(F) Written acknowledgment by the PSC and individual PSC personnel that:
