
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 34 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
###### Subpart B - Post-award Requirements
####### Termination and Enforcement
######## ยง 34.52 Enforcement.
######### Remedies for noncompliance.

(a)If a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award, whether stated in a Federal statute, regulation, assurance, application, or notice of award, the grants officer may, in addition to imposing any of the special conditions outlined in ยง 34.4, take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances:

(1) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the recipient or more severe enforcement action by the grants officer and DoD Component.

(2) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance.

(3) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award. In the case of termination, the recipient will be reimbursed for allowable costs incurred prior to termination, with the possible exception of those for activities and actions described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) Withhold further awards for the project or program.

(5) Take other remedies that may be legally available.
