
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart A - Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
####### ยง 161.3 Definitions.
######## Transitional Health Care (THC).

A healthcare system, formerly known as Transition Assistance Management Program (TAMP), instituted in section 502 of Public Law 101-510. It includes pre-separation and separation services, the Continued Health Care Benefit Program, a voluntary insurance program for sponsors and eligible dependents separating from active service; pre-separation counseling service for separating uniformed services members; and various other transitional initiatives. Uniformed service members separated as uncharacterized entry-level separations do not qualify for THC. Section 706 of Public Law 108-375 replaced the TAMP with the THC program. Section 651 of Public Law 110-181 included the 2-year commissary and exchange privilege for involuntarily separated uniformed service members. The DoD added MWR to the benefit set and extended the same benefits to the eligible dependents. To qualify for benefits under this program, individuals must be separated with service characterized as honorable or general under honorable conditions meeting the separation reasons identified in 10 U.S.C. 1145. The THC program is a permanent program and made the medical eligibility 180 days for all eligible uniformed service members and eligible dependents. Enlisted uniformed service members discharged for reasons of misconduct, discharge in lieu of court-martial, or other reasons for which service normally is characterized as under other than honorable conditions are not eligible for transition benefits. Officers discharged as a result of resignation in lieu of trial by court-martial, or misconduct or moral or professional dereliction if the discharge could be characterized as under other than honorable conditions are not eligible for transition benefits. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1145, the qualifying periods of active duty include:

(1) A member who is involuntarily separated from active duty.

(2) A member of a Reserve Component who is separated from active duty to which called or ordered in support of a contingency operation if the active duty is for a period of more than 30 days.

(3) A member who is separated from active duty for which the member is involuntarily retained in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12305 in support of a contingency operation.

(4) A member who is separated from active duty served pursuant to a voluntary agreement of the member to remain on active duty for a period of less than 1 year in support of a contingency operation.

(5) A member who receives a sole survivorship discharge (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1174); or

(6) A member who is separated from active duty who agrees to become a member of the SelRes. Section 734 of Public Law 110-417, which took effect on October 14, 2008 extended THC benefits to a uniformed service member who is separated from active duty who agrees to become a member of the SelRes of the Ready Reserve of a Reserve Component.
