
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter A - Acquisition
##### PART 2 - PILOT PROGRAM POLICY
###### ยง 2.5 Criteria for designation of participating programs.

(a) Candidate programs must have an approved requirement, full program funding assured prior to designation, and low risk. Nomination of a candidate program to participate in the Defense Acquisition Pilot Program should occur as early in the program's life-cycle as possible. Developmental programs will only be considered on an exception basis.

(b) Programs in which commercial or non-developmental items can satisfy the military requirement are preferred as candidate programs. A nominated program will address which standard commercial, industrial practices will be used in the pilot program and how those practices will be applied.

(c) Nomination of candidate programs must be accompanied by a list of waivers being requested to Statutes, FAR, DFARS, DoD Directivesand Instructions,and where applicable, DoD Component regulations. Waivers being requested must be accompanied by rationale and justification for the waiver. The justification must include:

(1) The provision of law proposed to be waived or limited.

(2) The effects of the provision of law on the acquisition, including specific examples.

(3) The actions taken to ensure that the waiver or limitation will not reduce the efficiency, integrity, and effectiveness of the acquisition process used for the defense acquisition program; and

(4) A discussion of the efficiencies or savings, if any, that will result from the waiver or limitation.

(d) No nominated program shall be accepted until the Under Secretary of Defense has determined that the candidate program is properly planned.
