
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 34 - ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
###### Subpart C - After-the-Award Requirements
####### § 34.61 Closeout procedures.

(a) The cognizant grants officer shall, at least six months prior to the expiration date of the award, contact the recipient to establish:

(1) All steps needed to close out the award, including submission of financial and performance reports, liquidation of obligations, and decisions on property disposition.

(2) A schedule for completing those steps.

(b) The following provisions shall apply to the closeout:

(1) The responsible grants officer and payment office shall expedite completion of steps needed to close out awards and make prompt, final payments to a recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the award being closed out.

(2) The recipient shall promptly refund any unobligated balances of cash that the DoD Component has advanced or paid and that is not authorized to be retained by the recipient for use in other projects. For unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts, see 32 CFR 22.820.

(3) When authorized by the terms and conditions of the award, the grants officer shall make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received.

(4) The recipient shall account for any real property and personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with §§ 34.21 through 34.25.

(5) If a final audit is required and has not been performed prior to the closeout of an award, the DoD Component shall retain the right to recover an appropriate amount after fully considering the recommendations on disallowed costs resulting from the final audit.
