
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart A - Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
####### ยง 161.5 Responsibilities.
######## http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/832003p.pdf

(8) Establish procedures that will uniquely identify personnel with specific associations with the Department of Defense and maintain the integrity of the unique personnel identifier in coordination with the DoD Components in accordance with DoD Directive 8320.03, "Unique Identification (UID) Standards for a Net-Centric Department of Defense" (available at).

(b) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs (ASD(RA)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R), shall develop policies and establish guidance for the National Guard and Reserve Component communities that affect benefits, entitlements, identity, and ID cards.

(c) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MC&FP)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R), shall develop policy and procedures to determine eligibility for access to DoD programs for MWR; commissaries; exchanges; lodging; children and youth; DoD schools; family support; voluntary and post-secondary education; and other military community and family benefits that affect identity and ID cards.

(d) The Director, Defense Human Resources Activity (DHRA), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R) and in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (h) of this section, shall, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25:

(1) Develop policies and procedures for the oversight, funding, personnel staffing, direction, and functional management of the PIP Program.

(2) Coordinate with the Principal Under Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)), and the ASD(RA) on changes to enrollment and eligibility policy and procedures pertaining to personnel, medical, and dental issues that affect the PIP Program.

(3) Develop policies and procedures to support the functional requirements of the PIP Program, DEERS, and the DEERS client applications.

(4) Secure funding in support of new requirements to support the PIP Program or the enrollment and eligibility functions of DEERS and RAPIDS.

(5) Approve the addition or elimination of population categories eligible for ID cards in accordance with applicable law.

(6) Establish the type and form of ID card issued to eligible populations categories and administer pilot programs to determine the suitable form of ID card for newly identified populations.

(7) Determines and maintains a list of forms of documentation that are acceptable for the purpose of eligibility verification, in accordance with applicable law.

(8) Through the Director, Defense Manpower Data Center:

(i) Provides and maintains training on the examination and inspection of documentation for the purpose of eligibility verification for DEERS enrollment, record management, and ID card issuance.

(ii) Supports and maintains the development of automated data feeds to DEERS that serve as authoritative eligibility sources for applicable DoD ID card-eligible personnel.

(iii) Supports and maintains the development of the Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) as the application used to incorporate and collect eligibility documentation.

(e) The USD(AT&L) shall:
