
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart A - Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
####### ยง 161.5 Responsibilities.
######## http://www.opm.gov/investigate/resources/final_credentialing_standards.pdf

(2) Establish policy for military, civilian, and contractor employee background investigation, submission, and adjudication across the Department of Defense, in compliance with Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 and Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, "Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Cards Under HSPD-12" (available at).

(g) The DoD CIO shall:

(1) In coordination with the USD(I), USD(P&R), and USD(AT&L), establish policy and oversight for CAC life-cycle compliance with Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 201-1.

(2) Provide guidance regarding the use of DoD and non-DoD identification credentials on DoD information systems, including the Federal PIV cards, for authenticating to DoD network accounts and DoD private Web sites.

(3) Ensure that the DoD Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) conforms to all applicable FIPS to the greatest extent possible.

(h) The OSD and DoD Component heads other than the Secretaries of the Military Departments, shall:

(1) Develop and implement Component-level procedures for DoD directed policies and statutory requirements to support benefits eligibility through DEERS.

(2) Develop and implement Component-level ID card life-cycle procedures to comply with the provisions of this Instruction.

(3) Ensure all DoD employees, uniformed service members, and all other eligible CAC applicants, including contractor employees and other affiliate CAC applicants, have met the background investigation requirements referenced in paragraph (a)(3) of ยง 161.6 of this part prior to approving CAC sponsorship and registration. Background investigation status must be verified and documented by the sponsor or sponsoring organization in conjunction with application for CAC issuance.
