
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart A - Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
####### ยง 161.5 Responsibilities.
######## http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/520001_vol4.pdf

(4) Establish processes and procedures as part of the normal check-in and check-out process for collection of the CAC for all categories of DoD personnel and contractor employees when there is a separation, retirement, termination, contract termination or expiration, or CAC revocation. Since CACs contain personally identifiable information (PII), they shall be treated and controlled in accordance with 32 CFR part 310, and DoD 5200.1-M, Volume 4, "DoD Information Security Program: Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)" (available at). CACs shall be returned to any RAPIDS issuance location for proper disposal in a timely manner once surrendered by the CAC holder.

(5) Provide appropriate space and staffing for all DoD ID card issuing operations, as well as reliable telecommunications to and from the Defense Information Systems Agency managed Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network.

(6) Provide funding for CAC cardstock, printer consumables, and electromagnetically opaque sleeves to Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC).

(7) Protect cardstock and consumables in accordance with the guidelines and standards issued and maintained by DMDC.

(8) In accordance with FIPS Publication 201-2, provide electromagnetic opaque sleeves or other comparable technologies to protect against any unauthorized contactless access to the cardholder unique identification number stored on the CAC.

(9) Manage the distribution and locations of CAC personal identification number (PIN) reset workstations.

(10) To the maximum extent possible, and in accordance with DoD Components' designated accrediting authority guidelines, ensure networked workstations are properly configured and available for CAC holders to use the User Maintenance Portal-Post Issuance Portal (UMP-PIP) service.

(11) Oversee supervision of TASS TAs and TA security managers and ensure the number of contractors overseen by any TA is manageable.

(12) Comply with the provisions of this part and provide timely and accurate support to the provisions of this part.

(13) Ensure that the policies and procedures in subpart D of this part are implemented to protect the privacy of individuals in the collection, use, maintenance, and dissemination of personally identifiable information, in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.

(i) The Secretaries of the Military Departments; Director, Division of Commissioned Corps Personnel and Readiness, USPHS; and Administrator, NOAA, shall:

(1) Appoint project officers from a level that represents the Service position of the active, National Guard, and Reserve Components for personnel policy to serve on the Joint Uniformed Services Personnel Advisory Committee.

(2) Comply with the provisions of this part and other related policy and procedural guidance from the Department of Defense.

(3) Coordinate with the Director, DoDHRA, through the Joint Uniformed Services Personnel Advisory Committee, to determine if the list of acceptable eligibility documentation needs to be amended to add new documents or remove outdated documents.

(4) Ensure that the policies and procedures in this subpart are implemented to protect the privacy of individuals in the collection, use, maintenance, and dissemination of personally identifiable information, in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.
