
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart A - Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
####### ยง 161.6 Procedures.
######## Retrieval and revocation.

(7)ID cards shall be retrieved by the sponsor or sponsoring organization when the ID card has expired, when it is damaged or compromised, or when the card holder is no longer affiliated with the DoD or no longer meets the eligibility requirements for the card. The active status of an ID card shall be revoked within the DEERS and RAPIDS infrastructure and the PKI certificates on the CAC shall be revoked.

(b) The guidelines and restrictions of this paragraph apply to all forms of DoD ID cards.

(1) Any person willfully altering, damaging, lending, counterfeiting, or using these cards in any unauthorized manner is subject to fine or imprisonment or both, as prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 499, 506, 509, 701, and 1001. Section 701 of 18 U.S.C. prohibits photographing or otherwise reproducing or possessing DoD ID cards in an unauthorized manner, under penalty of fine or imprisonment or both. Unauthorized or fraudulent use of ID cards would exist if bearers used the card to obtain benefits and privileges to which they are not entitled. Examples of authorized photocopying include photocopying of DoD ID cards to facilitate medical care processing, check cashing, voting, tax matters, compliance with 50 U.S.C. appendix 501 (also known as "The Service member's Civil Relief Act"), or administering other military-related benefits to eligible beneficiaries. When possible, the ID card will be electronically authenticated in lieu of photographing the card.

(2) International agreements (including status-of-forces agreements) and host-nation law may limit and/or define the types of support available to personnel in overseas areas. Although an ID card may be used to verify eligibility in the United States for access to, for example, commissary or exchange facilities, the use of such facilities overseas may be limited to persons who are stationed or performing temporary duty in a foreign country under official orders in support of a mutual defense mission with the host nation. ID cards shall be issued only for the purposes identified in and in accordance with this Instruction, and the Heads of the DoD Components shall use other means, such as ration cards, to implement provisions in international agreements or to prevent violations of applicable host-nation law. ID cards shall not be issued for the sole purpose of implementing provisions of international agreements or restrictions based on applicable host-nation law.

(3) All ID cards are property of the U.S. Government and shall be returned upon separation, resignation, firing, termination of contract or affiliation with the DoD, or upon any other event in which the individual no longer requires the use of such ID card.

(4) To prevent any unauthorized use, ID cards that are expired, invalidated, stolen, lost, or otherwise suspected of potential or actual unauthorized use shall be revoked in DEERS along with the PKI certificates on the CACs immediately revoked.

(5) There are instances where graphical representations of ID cards are necessary to facilitate the DoD mission. When used and distributed, the replicas must not be the same size as the ID card, must have the word "SAMPLE" written on them, and shall not contain an individual's PII. All SAMPLE ID cards must be maintained in a controlled environment and shall not serve as a valid ID.

(6) Individuals within the DoD who have multiple personnel category codes (e.g., an individual who is both a reservist and a contractor) shall be issued a separate ID card in each personnel category for which they are eligible. Multiple current ID cards of the same form (e.g., CAC) shall not be issued or exist for an individual under a single personnel category code.

(7) ID cards shall not be amended, modified, or overprinted by any means. No stickers or other adhesive materials are to be placed on either side of an ID card. Holes shall not be punched into ID cards, except when a CAC has been requested by the next of kin for an individual who has perished in the line of duty. A CAC provided to next of kin shall have the status of the card revoked in DEERS, have the certificates revoked, and have a hole punched through the integrated circuit chip before it is released to the next of kin.

(8) An ID card shall be in the personal custody of the individual to whom it was issued at all times. If required by military authority, it shall be surrendered for ID or investigation.
