
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Sponsorship and eligibility.

(a)In accordance with this part, sponsorship shall incorporate the processes for confirming eligibility for an ID card. The sponsor is the person affiliated with the DoD or other Federal agency who takes responsibility for verifying and authorizing the applicant's need for an ID card. Applicants for a CAC shall be sponsored by a DoD Government official or employee.

(1) The population categories and specific ID cards for which applicants are eligible are listed in Appendix 1 of this section. The majority of these populations are eligible to be sponsored for an ID card based on either their employment status with the DoD or their authorization to receive DoD benefits and entitlements. Examples of these population categories include, but are not limited to: Uniformed services personnel; DoD civilian employees; military retirees; certain DoD beneficiaries; and the eligible dependents for these categories.

(2) Specific populations, listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of Appendix 1 of this section who are eligible to submit for the "U.S. DoD/Uniformed Service ID Card" may only be sponsored if they meet additional criteria. Examples of these population categories include DoD contractors, non-DoD Federal civilians, State employees, and other non-DoD personnel that have an affiliation with the DoD other than through employment or contract. Eligibility for these approved population categories is based on the DoD Government sponsor's determination of the type and frequency of access required to DoD facilities or networks. For the populations described in this paragraph, the applicant's sponsor must confirm that the applicant meets one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section:
