
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Background Investigation.,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/ directives/corres/pdf/ 520046p.pdf

(c)In accordance with this subpart and DoDI 5200.46, "DoD Investigative and Adjudicative Guidance for Issuing the Common Access Card (CAC)" (available at:), a background investigation is required for those individuals eligible for a CAC. A background investigation is not currently required for those eligible for other forms of DoD ID cards. The use of the CAC, as the DoD Federal personal identity verification (PIV) card, is governed and supported by additional policies when compared to non-CAC ID cards. Sponsored CAC applicants shall not be issued a CAC without the required background investigation stipulated in DoDI 5200.46 and FIPS Publication 201-2.

(1) A background investigation shall be initiated by the sponsoring organization before a CAC can be issued. The mechanisms required to verify completion of background investigation activities for DoD, military, and civilian CAC populations are managed within the DoD human resources and personnel security communities and are linked to the CAC issuance process. An automated means is not currently in place to confirm the vetting for populations other than DoD military and civilian personnel such as CAC-eligible contractors and non-DoD Federal civilian affiliates. When data is not available within the CAC issuance infrastructure on the background investigation status for an applicant, the sponsor shall be responsible for confirming that the required background investigation procedures comply with the DoD Instruction 5200.46 and FIPS Publication 201-2 before a CAC is authorized for issuance.
