
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Identity documents.

(1)Applicants for initial ID card issuance shall submit two identity documents in original form as proof of identity. A VO at a RAPIDS workstation shall inspect and verify the documents presented by the applicant before ID card issuance. The identity documents must come from the list of acceptable primary and secondary documents included in the FIPS Publication 201-2 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements, or, for non-U.S. persons, other sources as outlined within paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. Copies of the identity documentation may be accepted so long as they are certified documents. In accordance with FIPS Publication 201-2 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements, the identity documents shall be neither expired nor cancelled. The primary identity document shall be a State or Federal Government-issued picture ID. The identity documents shall be inspected for authenticity and scanned and stored in the DEERS in accordance with the DMDC, "Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide" upon issuance of an ID card. The requirement for the primary identity document to have a photo cannot be waived for initial ID card issuance, consistent with applicable statutory requirements. Identity documentation requirements for renewal or re-issuance are provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. When it has been determined that a CAC applicant has purposely misrepresented or not provided the applicant's true identity, the case shall be referred by the relevant RAPIDS Service Project office (SPO) to the sponsoring DoD or other Uniformed Service Component organization. The DoD or other Uniformed Service Component organization concerned shall initiate an investigation or provide appeals procedures as appropriate. Exceptions to the identity documentation requirements for initial ID card issuance are provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:
