
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Documentation for non-U.S. persons.

(ii)At foreign locations, eligible non-U.S. persons may not possess identity documentation from the FIPS Publication 201-2 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements required for ID card issuance. These individuals shall still provide personal ID as required by the intent of this paragraph (d)(1). Non-U.S. persons within the continental United States (CONUS) shall present a valid (unexpired) foreign passport as the primary form of identity source documentation. DoD organizations based outside the CONUS should work with the local consular affairs office to determine guidelines for the appropriate identity documentation for eligible non-U.S. persons in accordance with agreements with host nations. It is recommended that a foreign passport be used as the primary form of identity source documentation for these individuals. The requirement for the primary identity document to have a photo cannot be waived. Additional documentation used to verify identity must be original or certified true copies. All documentation not in English must have a certified English translation.
