
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Biometrics.

(4)In accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25, ID card applicants shall provide two fingerprint biometric scans and a facial image, to assist with authenticating the applicant's identity and to bind the information maintained on that individual in DEERS and to the ID card issued by RAPIDS. These requirements shall be integrated into the ID card issuance processes in the following manner:

(i) A digitized, full-face passport-type photograph will be captured for the facial image and stored in DEERS and shall have a plain white or off-white background. No flags, posters, or other images shall appear in the photo. All ID cards issued will display a photograph.

(ii) Two fingerprints are captured for storage within DEERS for applicable ID card applicants. The right and left index fingers shall normally be designated as the primary and secondary finger, respectively. However, if those fingers cannot be imaged, the primary and secondary designations shall be taken in the following order of priority: Right thumb, left thumb, right middle finger, left middle finger, right ring finger, left ring finger, right little finger, left little finger.

(iii) If two fingerprints cannot be captured, the facial image will be the alternative for authenticating ID card applicants and ID card holders during the issuance process. Additionally, when verification or capture of biometrics is not possible, authorization will be provided by the RAPIDS SSM's digital signature. This transaction shall be subject to audit by DMDC and the uniformed services.
