
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Cross-servicing.

(1)The uniformed services agree to cross-service the issuance of ID cards when affiliation and eligibility can be verified in DEERS. When eligibility cannot be verified through DEERS, presentation of documentation shall be required. The uniformed services shall restrict cross-servicing for verification of the DD Form 1172-2 and eligibility documentation to the parent uniformed service for the categories in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section:

(i) Initial application for permanently incapacitated individuals over age 21 and temporarily incapacitated children over age 21.

(ii) All dependent parents and parents-in-law.

(iii) Illegitimate child of a male sponsor, whose paternity has not been judicially determined.

(iv) Illegitimate child of spouse or sponsor.

(v) Unremarried and unmarried former spouses applying for initial issuance of an ID card.

(vi) Retiree from other services, and former members not currently enrolled in DEERS.

(vii) Surviving dependents of Reserve Retirees on the sponsor's 60th birthday.

(viii) Abused dependents.

(ix) Wards.
