
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Renewal and reissuance.

(3)Consistent with applicable law, the applicant for ID renewal or reissuance shall be required to surrender the current DoD ID card that is up for renewal or reissuance except as indicated for lost and stolen ID cards in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section. To authenticate renewal or reissuance applicants, the VO shall visually compare the applicant against the facial image stored in DEERS. For applicants who have fingerprint biometrics stored in DEERS, live fingerprint biometrics samples shall be checked against the applicant's DEERS record. If the biometric check confirms the identity of the renewal or reissuance applicant then no additional documentation is required to verify identity other than the ID card that is being renewed or reissued (documentation may still be required to verify or re-verify eligibility as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section). As a general practice for renewal or re-issuance, two fresh fingerprint biometric captures may be stored for applicable personnel through the initial procedures in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section to support DMDC's biometric update schedule.

(i) An ID card holder may apply for a renewal starting 90 days prior to the expiration of a valid ID. The SPO can provide exceptions to this requirement.

(ii) An ID card shall be reissued when printed information requires changes (e.g., pay grade, rank, change in eligibility), when any of the media (including printed data, magnetic stripe, bar codes, or integrated circuit chip) becomes illegible or inoperable, or when a CAC is known or suspected to be compromised.

(iii) An ID card shall be reissued when it is reported lost or stolen. The individual reporting a lost or stolen ID card shall be required to provide a valid (unexpired) State or Federal Government-issued picture ID as noted in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, consistent with applicable law, when available. If the individual is unable to present the required identity documentation, a biometric verification shall be used as proof of identity as described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section. The VO shall verify the cardholder's identity against the biometric information stored in DEERS and confirm the expiration date of the missing ID card. The individual shall also be required to present documentation from the local security office or ID card sponsor confirming that the ID card has been reported lost or stolen. This documentation must be scanned and stored in DEERS. For dependents, the DD Form 1172-2 serves as the supporting documentation for a lost or stolen card. For individuals sponsored through TASS, the replacement ID card shall have the same expiration date as the lost or stolen card.

(A) If no identity documentation is available but biometric information (facial image or fingerprint when applicable) in the DEERS database can be verified by the VO, an ID card can be reissued to the individual upon the additional approval of a SSM. This transaction shall be digitally signed and audited.

(B) If biometric information cannot be verified, the requirements for initial issuance shall apply or a temporary card may be issued in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
