
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.7 ID card life-cycle procedures.
######## Retrieval and revocation.

(g)In accordance with this part, ID cards shall be retrieved by the sponsor or sponsoring organization when the ID card has expired, when it is damaged or compromised, or when the card holder is no longer affiliated with the DoD or no longer meets the eligibility requirements for the card. The active status of the card shall be terminated within the DEERS and RAPIDS infrastructure. The CAC, as the DoD Federal PIV card, is governed and supported by additional policies and infrastructure when compared to non-CAC ID cards. This section provides additional guidance on CAC retrieval and revocation:

(1) CACs shall be retrieved as part of the normal organizational or command-level check-out processes. The active status of the CAC shall also be terminated in special circumstances (e.g., absent without leave, unauthorized absence, missing in action) in accordance with organization or command-level security policies.

(2) The DoD sponsor or sponsoring organization is ultimately responsible for retrieving CACs from their personnel who are no longer supporting their organization or activity. CAC retrieval will be documented and treated as personally identifiable information, in accordance with DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, and 32 CFR part 310 and receipted to a RAPIDS site for disposition in a timely manner.
