
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.8 ID card life-cycle roles and responsibilities.
######## DD Form 1172-2.

(c)The DD Form 1172-2 shall be used to collect the information necessary to register ID card and CAC applicants in DEERS via RAPIDS who are not enrolled through an authorized personnel data feed or are not registered through TASS. The DD Form 577, "Appointment/Termination Record-Authorized Signature," shall be used to verify the sponsoring individual's signature, when verification through RAPIDS is unavailable. This form is to be used primarily for DEERS enrollment and verification of initial and continued association for dependents and DoD affiliates (e.g., foreign national military). The DD Form 1172-2 shall also be used to add benefits conditions for eligible personnel in accordance with DMDC, "Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide" and subpart C of this part. Retention and disposition of the DD Form 1172-2 shall be in accordance with the uniformed services' regulatory instructions. In the absence of electronic verification of sponsorship for the enrollment or reenrollment of dependents, the sponsor signing block 65 in Section 5 of the DD Form 1172-2 for the ID card applicant:

(1) Shall be a uniformed services member, retiree, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or an individual entitled to DoD benefits in their own right, without requiring relationship to another sponsor, as described in subpart C of this part.

(2) Must be a DoD ID card or CAC holder.

(3) Shall establish the applicant's initial and continued relationship to the sponsor, affiliation with DoD, and need for a CAC card in accordance with this subpart and DoD Component-level procedures.
