
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart B - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
####### ยง 161.8 ID card life-cycle roles and responsibilities.
######## TA.,https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/appj/cvs/login,ยง 161.7

(3)TAs shall be sponsors for eligible populations within TASS and will utilize TASS to register data for the DD Form 1172-2, re-verify CAC holder affiliation, and revoke CACs in accordance with this part and the DMDC "Contractor Verification System TASS (CVS) TASM/TA and Applicant User Guides, Version 3.03" (available at). Sponsoring an applicant is a multi-step process which includes establishing the individual's eligibility in accordance with paragraph (a) of ยง 161.7 of this subpart and verifying that the individual has the necessary background investigation completed to be issued a CAC in accordance with paragraph (c) ofof this subpart. A TASS TA:

(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.

(ii) Must be a uniformed services member, a DoD civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a non DoD Federal agency employee approved by DHRA.

(iii) Must be capable of sending and receiving digitally signed and encrypted email.

(iv) Must be a CAC holder.

(v) Shall complete the training provided by DMDC for the TA role.

(vi) Shall manage no more than 100 active contractors at any given time within TASS. Exceptions to this limit can be authorized by the DoD Component concerned to address specific contract requirements that substantiate a need for a larger contractor-to-TA ratio. The DoD Component SPOC shall document any authorized exceptions to the 100-contractors limit and shall, at a minimum, conduct annual audits on the oversight functions of these specific TAs.

(vii) Shall coordinate with their contracting personnel when establishing the contractor's initial and continued affiliation with DoD and need for CACs in accordance with agency or Component-level procedures.

(viii) Shall coordinate with their contracting, human resources, or personnel security organizations to confirm that the appropriate background check has been completed for CAC applicants.

(ix) Shall re-verify a CAC holder's need for a CAC every 6 months (180 days) within TASS.

(x) Shall revoke the CAC within the TASS upon termination of employment or completion of affiliation with the DoD.

(xi) Shall ensure that the CAC is retrieved upon the CAC holder's termination of employment or completion of affiliation with the DoD.
