
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart C - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: Benefits for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
####### ยง 161.20 Benefits for civilian personnel.

Civilian personnel may be eligible for certain benefits described in this section based on their affiliation with DoD, Service-specific guidelines, or other authorizing conditions. The definition of "civilian personnel" (e.g., civilian employee, DoD contractor, Red Cross employee) is specific to each benefit set described.

(a) Civilian personnel in the United States may be issued a DoD ID card as a condition of employment or assignment in accordance with subpart B of this part. Civilian personnel in the United States are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 29 to this subpart.

(b) Civilian personnel residing on a military installation in the United States are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 30 to this subpart.

(c) DoD civilian personnel stationed or employed outside the United States and outside U.S. Territories and Possessions, and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 31 to this subpart.

(d) Non-DoD Government agency civilian personnel stationed or employed outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions, and their dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 32 to this subpart.

(e) Civilian personnel stationed or employed in U.S. Territories and Possessions and their dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 33 to this subpart.

(f) DoD OCONUS hires are foreign nationals in host countries who are employed by U.S. forces, consistent with any agreement with the host country as defined in Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. They are entered into DEERS for the purposes of issuing a CAC and are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 34 to this subpart.

(g) Full-time paid personnel of the Red Cross assigned to duty with the uniformed services in the United States and residing on a military installation and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 35 to this subpart.

(h) Full-time paid personnel of the Red Cross assigned to duty with the uniformed services outside the United States and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 36 to this subpart.

(i) Full-time paid personnel of the United Service Organizations (USO) serving outside the United States and their accompanying dependents when residing in the same household are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 37 to this subpart.

(j) Full-time paid personnel of the USS serving outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions, and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 38 to this subpart.

(k) MSC civil service Marine personnel deployed on MSC-owned and operated vessels outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 39 to this subpart.

(l) Ship's officers and members of the crews of NOAA vessels are eligible for benefits in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 3074 as shown in Table 40 to this subpart. Ship's officers are not commissioned officers, but civilian employees of NOAA.

(m) Officers and crews of vessels, lighthouse keepers, and depot keepers of the former Lighthouse Service are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 41 to this subpart.

(n) Presidential appointees who have been confirmed by the Senate (PASs) are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 42 to this subpart.

(o) Contract surgeons overseas during the period of their contract are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 43 to this subpart.

(p) State employees of the National Guard may be identified in DEERS for the purpose of issuing a CAC to access DoD networks. There are no benefits assigned and no dependent benefits are extended as shown in Table 44 to this subpart.
