
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter F - Security
##### PART 161 - IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS
###### Subpart D - DoD Identification (ID) Cards: Eligibility Documentation Required for Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) Enrollment, Record Management, and ID Card Issuance
####### ยง 161.23 Procedures.
######## Eligibility documentation,Basic requirements.

(a)-(1)(i) ID card applicants must provide documentation as initial verification of eligibility for benefits or as proof of relationship to the sponsor. The sponsor is the prime beneficiary who derives eligibility based on individual status rather than dependence upon or relationship to another person, in accordance with ยง 161.7(a). When possible, DEERS records will be established and updated by authoritative data feeds.

(ii) An individual's DEERS record is established through the in-person presentation of identity documentation and, in some cases, eligibility documentation. Documentation verifying an ID card applicant's identity is always required in accordance with ยง 161.7(d)(1). Eligibility documentation may also be required to update a DEERS record to reflect a change in benefits or status.

(A) Identity and eligibility documentation is reviewed for authenticity by a RAPIDS verifying official (VO) and incorporated into the individual's DEERS record as necessary.

(B) The sponsor or DoD beneficiary must provide documentation to establish or terminate the relationship to a dependent within 30 days of the change.

(C) The VO ensures that the DD Form 1172-2 is signed by the sponsor.
