
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 174 - REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND ADDRESSING IMPACTS OF REALIGNMENT
###### Subpart D - Real Property
####### ยง 174.9 Economic development conveyances.
######## i.e.,

(i) Cash, including a share of the revenues that the local redevelopment authority receives from third-party buyers or lessees from sales and leases of the conveyed property (a share of the revenues generated from the redevelopment project);

(ii) Goods and services;

(iii) Real property and improvements; and

(iv) Such other consideration as the Secretary considers appropriate.

(2) The consideration may be accepted over time.

(3) All cash consideration for property at a military installation where the date of approval of closure or realignment is before January 1, 2005, shall be deposited in the account established under Section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Pub. L. 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note). All cash consideration for property at a military installation where the date of approval of closure or realignment is after January 1, 2005, shall be deposited in the account established under Section 2906A(a) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Pub. L. 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).

(4) The Secretary concerned may use in-kind consideration received from an LRA at any location under control of the Secretary concerned.

(i) The LRA and the Secretary concerned may agree on a schedule for sale of parcels and payment participation.

(j) Additional provisions shall be incorporated in the conveyance documents to protect the Department's interest in obtaining the agreed upon consideration, which may include such items as predetermined release prices, accounting standards, or other appropriate clauses designed to ensure payment and protect against fraudulent transactions. Every agreement for an EDC shall contain provisions allowing the Secretary concerned to recoup from the LRA such portion of the proceeds from a sale or lease by the LRA as the Secretary concerned determines appropriate if the LRA does not use the proceeds to support economic redevelopment of or related to the installation during the period specified in paragraph (d)(8) of this section. The Secretary concerned and an LRA may enter into a mutually agreed participation agreement which may include input by the Secretary concerned on the LRA's disposal of EDC parcels.

(k) The Secretary concerned should take account of property value but is not required to formally determine the estimated fair market value of the property for any EDC. The consideration negotiated should be based on a business plan and development pro-forma that assumes the uses in the redevelopment plan. The Secretary concerned may determine the nature and extent of any additional information needed for purposes of an informed negotiation. This may include, but is not limited to, an economic and market analysis, construction estimates, a real estate pro forma analysis, or an appraisal. To the extent not prohibited by law, information used should be shared with the LRA.

(l) After evaluating the application based upon the criteria specified in paragraph (f) of this section, and negotiating terms and conditions, the Secretary concerned shall present the proposed EDC to the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment) for formal coordination before announcing approval of the application.
