
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 174 - REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND ADDRESSING IMPACTS OF REALIGNMENT
###### Subpart D - Real Property
####### ยง 174.12 Leasing of transferred real property by Federal agencies.
######## e.g.

(c) If the subject property cannot be transferred pursuant to such a leasing arrangement (, the relevant Federal agency prefers ownership, the LRA and the Federal agency cannot agree on terms of the lease, or the Secretary concerned determines that such a lease would not be in the Federal interest), such property shall remain in Federal ownership unless and until the Secretary concerned determines that it is surplus.

(d) If a building or structure is proposed for transfer pursuant to this section, that which is leased by the Federal agency may be all or a portion of that building or structure.

(e) Transfers pursuant to this section must be to an LRA.

(f) Either existing Federal tenants or Federal agencies desiring to locate onto the property after operational closure may make use of such a leasing arrangement. The Secretary concerned may not enter into such a leasing arrangement unless:

(1) In the case of a Defense Agency, the Secretary concerned is acting in an Executive Agent capacity on behalf of the Agency that certifies that such a leasing arrangement is in the interest of that Agency; or,

(2) In the case of a Military Department, the Secretary concerned certifies that such a leasing arrangement is in the best interest of the Military Department and that use of the property by the Military Department is consistent with the obligation to close or realign the installation in accordance with the recommendations of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission.

(g) Property eligible for such a leasing arrangement is not surplus because it is still needed by the Federal Government. Even though the LRA would not otherwise have to include such property in its redevelopment plan, it should include the property in its redevelopment plan anyway to take into account the planned Federal use of such property.

(h) The terms of the LRA's lease to the Federal Government should afford the Federal agency rights as close to those associated with ownership of the property as is practicable. The requirements of the General Services Administration (GSA) Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 570) are not applicable to the lease, but provisions in that regulation may be used to the extent they are consistent with this part. The terms of the lease are negotiable subject to the following:

(1) The lease shall be for a term of no more than 50 years, but may provide for options for renewal or extension of the term at the request of the Federal Government. The lease term should be based on the needs of the Federal agency.

(2) The lease, or any renewals or extensions thereof, shall not require rental payments.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(2) of this section, if the lease involves a substantial portion of the installation, the Secretary concerned may obtain facility services for the leased property and common area maintenance from the LRA or the LRA's assignee as a provision of the lease.

(A) Such services and common area maintenance shall be provided at a rate no higher than the rate charged to non-Federal tenants of the transferred property.

(B) Such services and common area maintenance shall not include-
