
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 174 - REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND ADDRESSING IMPACTS OF REALIGNMENT
###### Subpart D - Real Property
####### ยง 174.12 Leasing of transferred real property by Federal agencies.
######## ii

() Firefighting or security-guard functions.

(C) The Federal agency may be responsible for services such as janitorial, grounds keeping, utilities, capital maintenance, and other services normally provided by a landlord. Acquisition of such services by the Federal agency is to be accomplished through the use of Federal Acquisition Regulation procedures or otherwise in accordance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.

(4) The lease shall include a provision prohibiting the LRA from transferring fee title to another entity during the term of the lease, other than one of the political jurisdictions that comprise the LRA, without the written consent of the Federal agency occupying the leased property.

(5)(i) The lease shall include an option specifying that if the Federal agency no longer needs the property before the expiration of the term of the lease, the remainder of the lease term may be satisfied by the same or another Federal agency that needs property for a similar use. ("Similar use" is a use that is comparable to or essentially the same as the use under the original lease, as determined by the Secretary concerned.)

(ii)(B) If the tenant is a DoD Component, before notifying GSA of the availability of the leasehold, it shall determine whether any other DoD Component has a requirement for the leasehold; in doing so, it shall consult with the LRA. If another DoD Component has a requirement for the leasehold, that DoD Component shall be allowed to assume the leasehold for the remainder of its term. If no DoD Component has a requirement for the leasehold, the tenant shall notify GSA in accordance with paragraph (h)(5)(ii)(A) of this section.

(A) The Federal tenant shall notify the GSA of the availability of the leasehold. GSA will then decide whether to exercise this option after consulting with the LRA or other property owner. The GSA shall have 60 days from the date of notification in which to identify a Federal agency to serve out the term of the lease and to notify the LRA or other property owner of the new tenant. If the GSA does not notify the LRA or other property owner of a new tenant within such 60 days, the leasehold shall terminate on a date agreed to by the Federal tenant and the LRA or other property owner.

(B) If the GSA decides not to exercise this option after consulting with the LRA or other property owner, the leasehold shall terminate on a date agreed to by the Federal tenant and the LRA or other property owner.

(6) The terms of the lease shall provide that the Federal agency may repair and improve the property at its expense after consultation with the LRA.

(i) Property subject to such a leasing arrangement shall be conveyed in accordance with the existing EDC procedures. The LRA shall submit the following in addition to the application requirements outlined in ยง 174.9(e) of this part:

(1) A description of the parcel or parcels the LRA proposes to have transferred to it and then to lease to a Federal agency;

(2) A written statement signed by an authorized representative of the Federal agency that it agrees to accept the lease of the property; and,

(3) A statement explaining why such a leasing arrangement is necessary for the long-term economic redevelopment of the installation property.

(j) The exact amount of consideration, or the formula to be used to determine that consideration, as well as the schedule for payment of consideration must be agreed upon in writing before transfer pursuant to this section.
