
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 174 - REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND ADDRESSING IMPACTS OF REALIGNMENT
###### Subpart E - Personal Property
####### § 174.13 Personal property.
######## i.e.

(7) The property is not owned by the Department of Defense,, it is owned by a Federal agency outside the Department of Defense or by non-Federal persons or entities such as a State, a private corporation, or an individual; or,

(8) The property is needed elsewhere in the national security interest of the United States as determined by the Secretary concerned. This authority may not be re-delegated below the level of an Assistant Secretary. In exercising this authority, the Secretary may transfer the property to any DoD Component or other Federal agency.

(f) Personal property not subject to the exemptions in paragraph (e) of this section may be conveyed to the LRA as part of an EDC for the real property if the Secretary concerned makes a finding that the personal property is necessary for the effective implementation of the redevelopment plan.

(g) Personal property may also be conveyed separately to the LRA under an EDC for personal property. This type of EDC can be made if the Secretary concerned determines that the transfer is necessary for the effective implementation of a redevelopment plan with respect to the installation. Such determination shall be based on the LRA's timely application for the property, which should be submitted to the Secretary upon completion of the redevelopment plan. The application must include the LRA's agreement to accept the personal property after a reasonable period and will otherwise comply with the requirements of §§ 174.9 and 174.10 of this part. The transfer will be subject to reasonable limitations and conditions on use.

(h) Personal property that is not needed by a DoD Component or a tenant Federal agency or conveyed to an LRA (or a state or local jurisdiction in lieu of an LRA), or conveyed as related personal property together with the real property, will be transferred to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office for disposal in accordance with applicable regulations.

(i) Useful personal property not needed by the Federal Government and not qualifying for transfer to the LRA under an EDC may be donated to the community or LRA through the appropriate State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP) under 41 CFR part 102-37 surplus program guidelines. Personal property donated under this procedure must meet the usage and control requirements of the applicable SASP.
