
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 176 - REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE - COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AND HOMELESS ASSISTANCE
###### § 176.30 LRA application.
####### Homeless assistance submission.

(b)This component of the application shall include the following:

(1) Information about homelessness in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.

(i) A list of all the political jurisdictions which comprise the LRA.

(ii) A description of the unmet need in the continuum of care system within each political jurisdiction, which should include information about any gaps that exist in the continuum of care for particular homeless subpopulations. The source for this information shall depend upon the size and nature of the political jurisdictions(s) that comprise the LRA. LRAs representing:

(A) Political jurisdictions that are required to submit a Consolidated Plan shall include a copy of their Homeless and Special Needs Population Table (Table 1), Priority Homeless Needs Assessment Table (Table 2), and narrative description thereof from that Consolidated Plan, including the inventory of facilities and services that assist the homeless in the jurisdiction.

(B) Political jurisdictions that are part of an urban county that is required to submit a Consolidated Plan shall include a copy of their Homeless and Special Needs Population Table (Table 1), Priority Homeless Needs Assessment Table (Table 2), and narrative description thereof from that Consolidated Plan, including the inventory of facilities and services that assist the homeless in the jurisdiction. In addition, the LRA shall explain what portion of the homeless population and subpopulations described in the Consolidated Plan are attributable to the political jurisdiction it represents.

(C) A political jurisdiction not described by § 176.30(b)(1)(ii)(A) or § 176.30(b)(1)(ii)(B) shall submit a narrative description of what it perceives to be the homeless population within the jurisdiction and a brief inventory of the facilities and services that assist homeless persons and families within the jurisdiction. LRAs that represent these jurisdictions are not required to conduct surveys of the homeless population.

(2) Notices of interest proposing assistance to homeless persons and/or families.

(i) A description of the proposed activities to be carried out on or off the installation and a discussion of how these activities meet a portion or all of the needs of the homeless by addressing the gaps in the continuum of care. The activities need not be limited to expressions of interest in property, but may also include discussions of how economic redevelopment may benefit the homeless;

(ii) A copy of each notice of interest from representatives of the homeless for use of buildings and property and a description of the manner in which the LRA's application addresses the need expressed in each notice of interest. If the LRA determines that a particular notice of interest should not be awarded property, an explanation of why the LRA determined not to support that notice of interest, the reasons for which may include the impact of the program contained in the notice of interest on the community as described in § 176.30(b)(2)(iii); and,

(iii) A description of the impact that the implemented redevelopment plan will have on the community. This shall include information on how the LRA's redevelopment plan might impact the character of existing neighborhoods adjacent to the properties proposed to be used to assist the homeless and should discuss alternative plans. Impact on schools, social services, transportation, infrastructure, and concentration of minorities and/or low income persons shall also be discussed.

(3) Legally binding agreements for buildings, property, funding, and/or services.

(i) A copy of the legally binding agreements that the LRA proposes to enter into with the representative(s) of the homeless selected by the LRA to implement homeless programs that fill gaps in the existing continuum of care. The legally binding agreements shall provide for a process for negotiating alternative arrangements in the event that an environmental analysis conducted under § 176.45(b) indicates that any property identified for transfer in the agreement is not suitable for the intended purpose. Where the balance determined in accordance with § 176.30(b)(4) provides for the use of installation property as a homeless assistance facility, legally binding agreements must provide for the reversion or transfer, either to the LRA or to another entity or entities, of the buildings and property in the event they cease to be used for the homeless. In cases where the balance proposed by the LRA does not include the use of buildings or property on the installation, the legally binding agreements need not be tied to the use of specific real property and need not include a reverter clause. Legally binding agreements shall be accompanied by a legal opinion of the chief legal advisor of the LRA or political jurisdiction or jurisdictions which will be executing the legally binding agreements that the legally binding agreements, when executed, will constitute legal, valid, binding, and enforceable obligations on the parties thereto;

(ii) A description of how buildings, property, funding, and/or services either on or off the installation will be used to fill some of the gaps in the current continuum of care system and an explanation of the suitability of the buildings and property for that use; and,

(iii) Information on the availability of general services such as transportation, police, and fire protection, and a discussion of infrastructure such as water, sewer, and electricity in the vicinity of the proposed homeless activity at the installation.

(4) An assessment of the balance with economic and other development needs.

(i) An assessment of the manner in which the application balances the expressed needs of the homeless and the needs of the communities comprising the LRA for economic redevelopment and other development; and

(ii) An explanation of how the LRA's application is consistent with the appropriate Consolidated Plan(s) or any other existing housing, social service, community, economic, or other development plans adopted by the jurisdictions in the vicinity of the installation.

(5) A description of the outreach undertaken by the LRA. The LRA shall explain how the outreach requirements described at § 176.20(c)(1) and § 176.20(c)(3) have been fulfilled. This explanation shall include a list of the representatives of the homeless the LRA contacted during the outreach process.
