
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 176 - REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES AND COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE - COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AND HOMELESS ASSISTANCE
###### ยง 176.35 HUD's review of the application.
####### Need.

(1)Takes into consideration the size and nature of the homeless population in the communities in the vicinity of the installation, the availability of existing services in such communities to meet the needs of the homeless in such communities, and the suitability of the buildings and property covered by the application for use and needs of the homeless in such communities. HUD will take into consideration the size and nature of the installation in reviewing the needs of the homeless population in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.

(2) Impact of notices of interest. Takes into consideration any economic impact of the homeless assistance under the plan on the communities in the vicinity of the installation, including:

(i) Whether the plan is feasible in light of demands that would be placed on available social services, police and fire protection, and infrastructure in the community; and,

(ii) Whether the selected notices of interest are consistent with the Consolidated Plan(s) of any other existing housing, social service, community economic, or other development plans adopted by the political jurisdictions in the vicinity of the installation.

(3) Legally binding agreements. Specifies the manner in which the buildings, property, funding, and/or services on or off the installation will be made available for homeless assistance purposes. HUD will review each legally binding agreement to verify that:

(i) They include all the documents legally required to complete the transactions necessary to realize the homeless use(s) described in the application;

(ii) They include all appropriate terms and conditions;

(iii) They address the full range of contingencies including those described at ยง 176.30(b)(3)(i);

(iv) They stipulate that the buildings, property, funding, and/or services will be made available to the representatives of the homeless in a timely fashion; and,

(v) They are accompanied by a legal opinion of the chief legal advisor of the LRA or political jurisdiction or jurisdictions which will be executing the legally binding agreements that the legally binding agreements will, when executed, constitute legal, valid, binding, and enforceable obligations on the parties thereto.
