
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 179 - MUNITIONS RESPONSE SITE PRIORITIZATION PROTOCOL (MRSPP)
###### ยง 179.5 Responsibilities.
####### e.g.,

(g) Develop sequencing decisions at installations and FUDS with input from appropriate regulators and stakeholders (community members of an installation's restoration advisory board or technical review committee), and document this development in the MAP. Final sequencing may be impacted by Component program management considerations. If the sequencing of any MRS is changed from the sequencing reflected in the current MAP, the Component shall provide information to the appropriate regulators and stakeholders documenting the reasons for the sequencing change, and shall request their review and comment on that decision.

(h) Ensure that information provided by regulators and stakeholders that may influence the priority assigned to an MRS or sequencing decision concerning an MRS is included in the Administrative Record and the Information Repository.

(i) Review each MRS priority at least annually and update the priority as necessary to reflect new information. Reapplication of the rule is required under any of the following circumstances:

(1) Upon completion of a response action that changes site conditions in a manner that could affect the evaluation under this rule.

(2) To update or validate a previous evaluation at an MRS when new information is available.

(3) To update or validate the priority assigned where that priority has been previously assigned based on evaluation of only one or two of the three hazard evaluation modules.

(4) Upon further delineation and characterization of an MRA into MRSs.

(5) To categorize any MRS previously classified as "evaluation pending."
