
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter H - Closures and Realignment
##### PART 179 - MUNITIONS RESPONSE SITE PRIORITIZATION PROTOCOL (MRSPP)
###### ยง 179.6 Procedures.
####### No known or suspected CWM hazard.

(iii)This category is reserved for MRSs that do not require evaluation under the CHE module.

(4) The CHE rating shall be considered with the EHE module and HHE module ratings to determine the MRS priority.

(5) MRSs lacking information for assessing a CHE module rating shall be programmed for additional study and evaluated as soon as sufficient data are available. Until a CHE module rating is assigned, the MRS shall be rated as "evaluation pending" for the CHE module.

(c) Health Hazard Evaluation (HHE) module.

(1) The HHE provides a consistent Department-wide approach for evaluating the relative risk to human health and the environment posed by MC. The HHE builds on the RRSE framework that is used in the Installation Restoration Program (IRP) and has been modified to address the unique requirements of MRSs. The HHE module shall be used for evaluating the potential hazards posed by MC and other chemical contaminants. The HHE module is intended to evaluate MC at sites. Any incidental nonmunitions-related contaminants may be addressed incidental to a munitions response under the MMRP.

(2) The module has three factors:

(i) Contamination Hazard Factor (CHF), which indicates MC, and any nonmunitions-related incidental contaminants present; this factor contributes a level of High (H), Middle (M), or Low (L) based on Significant, Moderate, or Minimal contaminants present, respectively. (See appendix A to this part, table 21.)

(ii) Receptor Factor (RF), which indicates the receptors; this factor contributes a level of H, M, or L based on Identified, Potential, or Limited receptors, respectively. (See appendix A, table 21.)

(iii) Migration Pathway Factor (MPF), which indicates environmental migration pathways, and contributes a level of H, M, or L based on Evident, Potential or Confined pathways, respectively. (See appendix A, table 21.)

(3) The H, M, and L levels for the CHF, RF, and MPF are combined in a matrix to obtain composite three-letter combination levels that integrate considerations of all three factors. (See appendix A, table 22.)

(4) The three-letter combination levels are organized by frequency, and the resulting frequencies result in seven HHE ratings. (See appendix A, table 23.)

(i) HHE Rating A (Highest) is assigned to MRSs with an HHE combination level of high for all three factors.

(ii) HHE Rating B is assigned to MRSs with a combination level of high for CHF and RF and medium for MPF (HHM).

(iii) HHE Rating C is assigned to MRSs with a combination level of high for the CHF and RF and low for MPF (HHL), or high for CHF and medium for the RF and MPF (HMM).

(iv) HHE Rating D is assigned to MRSs with a combination level of high for the CHF, medium for the RF, and low for the MPF (HML), or medium for all three factors (MMM).

(v) HHE Rating E is assigned to MRSs with a combination level of high for the CHF and low for the RF and MPF (HLL), or medium for the CHF and RF and low for the MPF (MML).

(vi) HHE Rating F is assigned to MRSs with a combination level of medium for the CHF and low for the RF and MPF (MLL).

(vii) HHE Rating G (Lowest) is assigned to MRSs with a combination level of low for all three factors (LLL).

(5) The HHE three-letter combinations are replaced by the seven HHE ratings. (See appendix A, table 24.)

(6) There are also three other potential outcomes for the HHE module:
