
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter L - Environment
##### PART 187 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF MAJOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACTIONS
###### ยง 187.4 Policy.

(a) Executive Order 12114 is based on the authority vested in the President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States. The objective of the Order is to further foreign policy and national security interests while at the same time taking into consideration important environmental concerns.

(b) The Department of Defense acts with care in the global commons because the stewardship of these areas is shared by all the nations of the world. The Department of Defense will take account of environmental considerations when it acts in the global commons in accordance with procedures set out in Enclosure 1 and its attachment.

(c) The Department of Defense also acts with care within the jurisdiction of a foreign nation. Treaty obligations and the sovereignty of other nations must be respected, and restraint must be exercised in applying United States laws within foreign nations unless Congress has expressly provided otherwise. The Department of Defense will take account of environmental considerations in accordance with Enclosure 2 and its attachments when it acts in a foreign nation.

(d) Foreign policy considerations require coordination with the Department of State on communications with foreign governments concerning environmental agreements and other formal arrangements with foreign governments concerning environmental matters under this part.

(e) Executive Order 12114, implemented by this part prescribes the exclusive and complete procedural measures and other actions to be taken by the Department of Defense to further the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act with respect to the environment outside the United States.
