
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter L - Environment
##### PART 187 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF MAJOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACTIONS
###### Enclosure 2 to Part 187 - Requirements for Environmental Considerations - Foreign Nations and Protected Global Resources
####### Actions included.

B.1. The requirements of this enclosure apply only to the following actions:

a. Major Federal actions that significantly harm the environment of a foreign nation that is not involved in the action. The involvement of the foreign nation may be directly by participation with the United States in the action, or it may be in conjunction with another participating nation. The focus of this category is on the geographical location of the environmental harm and not on the location of the action.

b. Major Federal actions that are determined to do significant harm to the environment of a foreign nation because they provide to that nation: (1) A product, or involve a physical project that produces a principal product, emission, or effluent, that is prohibited or strictly regulated by Federal law in the United States because its toxic effects on the environment create a serious public health risk; or (2) a physical project that is prohibited or strictly regulated in the United States by Federal law to protect the environment against radioactive substances. Included in the category of "prohibited or strictly regulated" are the following: asbestos, vinyl chloride, acrylonitrile, isocyanates, polychlorinated biphenyls, mercury, beryllium, arsenic, cadmium, and benzene.

c. Major Federal actions outside the United States that significantly harm natural or ecological resources of global importance designated for protection by the President or, in the case of such a resource protected by international agreement binding on the United States, designated for protection by the Secretary of State. Such determinations by the President or the Secretary of State to be listed in Attachment 1 to this enclosure, entitled, "Protected Global Resources".

2. The actions prescribed by this enclosure are the exclusive and complete requirement for taking account of environmental considerations with respect to Federal actions that do significant harm to the environment of foreign nations and protected global resources as described in subsection B.1., of this enclosure. No action is required under this enclosure with respect to Federal actions that affect only the environment of a participating or otherwise involved foreign nation and that do not involve providing products or physical projects producing principal products, emissions, or effluents that are prohibited or strictly regulated by Federal law in the United States, or resources of global importance that have been designated for protection.
