
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter L - Environment
##### PART 187 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF MAJOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACTIONS
###### Enclosure 2 to Part 187 - Requirements for Environmental Considerations - Foreign Nations and Protected Global Resources
####### General Exemptions.

a.The following actions are exempt from the procedural and other requirements of this enclosure under general exemptions established for all agencies by Executive Order 12114:

(1) Actions that the DoD component concerned determines do not do significant harm to the environment outside the United States or to a designated resource of global importance.

(2) Actions taken by the President. These include: Signing bills into law; signing treaties and other international agreements; the promulgation of Executive Orders; Presidential proclamations; and the issuance of Presidental decisions, instructions, and memoranda. This includes actions taken within the Department of Defense to prepare or assist in preparing recommendations, advice, or information for the President in connection with one of these actions by the President. It does not include actions taken within the Department of Defense to implement or carry out these instruments and issuances after they are promulgated by the President.

(3) Actions taken by or pursuant to the direction of the President or a cabinet officer in the course of armed conflict. The term "armed conflict" refers to: hostilities for which Congress has declared war or enacted a specific authorization for the use of armed forces; hostilities or situations for which a report is prescribed by section 4(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, 50 U.S.C.A. 1543(a)(1) (Supp. 1978); and other actions by the armed forces that involve defensive use or introduction of weapons in situations where hostilities occur or are expected. This exemption applies as long as the armed conflict continues.

(4) Actions taken by or pursuant to the direction of the President or a cabinet officer when the national security or national interest is involved. The determination that the national security or national interest is involved in actions by the Department of Defense must be made in writing by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics).

(5) The activities of the intelligence components utilized by the Secretary of Defense under Executive Order 12036, 43 FR 3674 (1978). These components include the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the offices for the collection of specialized intelligence through reconnaissance programs, the Army Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, the Office of Naval Intelligence, and the Air Force Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

(6) The decisions and actions of the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs), the Defense Security Assistance Agency, and the other responsible offices within DoD components with respect to arms transfers to foreign nations. The term "arms transfers" includes the grant, loan, lease, exchange, or sale of defense articles or defense services to foreign governments or international organizations, and the extension or guarantee of credit in connection with these transactions.

(7) Votes and other actions in international conferences and organizations. This includes all decisions and actions of the United States with respect to representation of its interests at international organizations, and at multilateral conferences, negotiations, and meetings.

(8) Disaster and emergency relief actions.

(9) Actions involving export licenses, export permits, or export approvals, other than those relating to nuclear activities. This includes: Advice provided by DoD components to the Department of State with respect to the issuance of munitions export licenses under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2778 (1976); advice provided by DoD components to the Department of Commerce with respect to the granting of export licenses under the Export Administration Act of 1969, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2413 (1970 & Supp. V 1975); and direct exports by the Department of Defense of defense articles and services to foreign governments and international organizations that are exempt from munitions export licenses under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2778 (1976). The term "export approvals" does not mean or include direct loans to finance exports.

(10) Actions relating to nuclear activities and nuclear material, except actions providing to a foreign nation a nuclear production or utilization facility, as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or a nuclear waste management facility.
