
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter L - Environment
##### PART 187 - ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF MAJOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACTIONS
###### Enclosure 2 to Part 187 - Requirements for Environmental Considerations - Foreign Nations and Protected Global Resources
####### Limitations.

6.The requirements with respect to the preparation, content, and distribution of environmental reviews in the international context must remain flexible. The specific procedures must be determined on a case-by-case basis and may be modified where necessary to:

a. Enable the component to act promptly. Considerations such as national security and foreign government involvement may require prompt action that must take precedence in the environmental review process;

b. Avoid adverse impacts on relations between the United States and foreign governments and international organizations;

c. Avoid infringement or the appearance of infringement on the sovereign responsibilities of another government. The collection of information and the preparation and distribution of environmental documentation for actions in which another nation is involved or with respect to the environment and resources of another nation, unless done with proper regard to the sovereign authority of that nation, may be viewed by that nation as an interference in its internal affairs and its prerogative to evaluate requirements with respect to the environment; and

d. Ensure consideration of:

(1) Requirements of governmental confidentiality. This refers to the need to protect sensitive foreign affairs information and information received from another government with the understanding that it will be protected from disclosure regardless of its classification;

(2) National security requirements. This refers to the protection of classified information;

(3) Availability of meaningful information. Information on the environment of foreign nations may be unavailable, incomplete, or not susceptible to meaningful evaluation, and this may reduce or change substantially the normal content of the environmental review;

(4) The extent of the participation of the DoD component concerned and its ability to affect the decision made. The utility of the environmental analysis and the need for an in-depth review diminishes as the role of the Department of Defense and control over the decision lessens; and

(5) International commercial, commercial confidentiality, competitive, and export promotion factors. This refers to the requirements to protect domestic and foreign trade secrets and confidential business information from disclosure. Export promotion factors includes the concept of not unnecessarily hindering United States exports.
