
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter L - Environment
##### PART 188 - DOD ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORY ACCREDITATION PROGRAM (ELAP)
###### ยง 188.6 Procedures.
####### i.e.,

(iv) Once the EDQW component principals have completed review of the application package, the DoD EDQW chair will notify the AB, either granting recognition or citing specific reasons for not doing so (indicating which areas of the application package are deficient).

(v) Once recognition has been granted, the DoD EDQW chair will post the name and contact information of the AB on DENIX.

(vi) With unanimous concurrence, the EDQW component principals may revoke recognition if the AB:

(A) Violates any of the conditions or criteria for recognition.

(B) Fails to operate in accordance with its documented quality system.

(vii) Should it become necessary to revoke an AB's recognition, the DoD EDQW chair will notify the AB stating specific reasons for the revocation and remove the AB's name from the list of DoD ELAP-recognized ABs.

(viii) If recognition is revoked, the AB must immediately cease to perform all DoD ELAP assessments.

(ix) ABs who have been denied recognition, or ABs whose recognition has been revoked, may appeal that decision.

(A) Within 15 calendar days of its receipt of a notice denying or revoking recognition, the AB must submit to the DoD EDQW chair a written statement with supporting documentation contesting the denial or revocation.

(B) The submission must demonstrate that:
