
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter L - Environment
##### PART 188 - DOD ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORY ACCREDITATION PROGRAM (ELAP)
###### ยง 188.6 Procedures.
####### Procedures.

(4)(i) If a project-specific laboratory approval is requested, the DoD EDQW will request and review a copy of the project's quality assurance project plan (QAPP).

(ii) If, after review of the QAPP, the DoD EDQW determines that an existing DoD ELAP-accredited laboratory is available to provide the required services, the laboratory contact information will be provided to the project manager requesting assistance.

(iii) If, after review of the QAPP, the DoD EDQW determines that no existing DoD ELAP-accredited laboratory is available to provide the required services, the DoD EDQW will:

(A) Work with the project team to determine whether the use of alternative procedures by an existing DoD ELAP-accredited laboratory is feasible;

(B) Determine if the required services can be added to the scope of accreditation of an existing DoD ELAP-accredited laboratory; or

(C) Work with the project team to identify a candidate laboratory for project-specific laboratory approval.

(iv) If a project-specific approval is needed, the DoD EDQW will:

(A) Determine the type of assessment required (on-site, document review, etc.).

(B) Determine if additional funding is required to support the assessment. If additional funding is required, the DoD EDQW will provide a cost estimate and work with the project manager to establish funding.

(v) If the DoD EDQW determines that a project-specific laboratory approval is warranted and resources (including funding and technical expertise) are available to support the assessment, the DoD EDQW chair will coordinate with the EDQW component principals to appoint an assessment team with appropriate technical backgrounds.

(vi) The DoD EDQW chair will designate an assessment team leader. The assessment team leader will:

(A) Request the documentation needed to perform the assessment.

(B) Assign responsibilities for individual members of the assessment team, if appropriate.

(C) Coordinate the document reviews.

(D) Lead the assessment team in the performance of the on-site assessment, if required.

(E) Provide a report to the DoD EDQW chair. The report will identify whether:
