
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 191 - THE DOD CIVILIAN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) PROGRAM
###### ยง 191.5 Responsibilities.
####### Heads of DoD Components,

(b) Theor their designees, shall:

(1) Ensure that all EEO policies are disseminated widely and that they are understood and implemented at all levels within their Components.

(2) Ensure that their Components comply with EEOC and OPM guidance and this part and that minorities, women, and people with disabilities receive full and fair consideration for civilian employment in all grade levels, occupations, and major organizations, with special emphasis on mid-level and higher grades and executive-level jobs, including the Senior Executive Service (SES) and SES candidate pools.

(3) Treat equal opportunity and affirmative action programs as essential elements of readiness that are vital to accomplishment of the national security mission.

(4) Designate a Director of Civilian Equal Opportunity and allocate sufficient staff and other resources to ensure a viable EEO program under this Directive. This includes assignment of staff to be responsible for EEO and affirmative action programs generally and SEP Managers for the SEPs established under this part at the Component level.

(5) Establish DoD SEPs, for the FWP, HEP, PPD, AEP, AIEP, and BEP at Headquarters level and at all field activities levels unless exemptions are granted to field activities. Authority to grant exceptions to field activities of DoD Components is delegated to the Component Heads who, in turn, may redelegate this authority.

(6) Require that EEO be included in critical elements in the performance appraisals of all supervisors, managers, and other Component personnel, military and civilian, with EEO responsibilities.

(7) Ensure fair, impartial, and timely investigation and resolution of complaints of discrimination in employment, including complaints of sexual harassment.

(8) Set realistic Component goals and motivate subordinate managers and supervisors to set and meet their own goals until overall DoD and Component goals are met and sustained.

(9) Evaluate employment policies, practices, and patterns within their respective Components and identify and correct and institutional barriers that restrict opportunities for recruitment, employment, advancement, awards, or training for minorities, women, and people with disabilities and ensure that EEO officers and civilian personnel officers provide leadership in eliminating these barriers.

(10) Ensure that installations and activities establish focused external recruitment programs to produce employment applications from minorities, women, and people with disabilities who are qualified to compete effectively with internal DoD candidates for employment at all levels and in all occupations.

(11) Establish a continuing EEO educational program (including training in the prevention of sexual harassment) for civilian and military personnel who supervise civilian employees.

(12) Establish EEO Awards Programs to recognize individuals and organizational units for outstanding achievement in one or all of the major EEO areas covered by this part.

(13) Review all award and management training programs to ensure that minorities, women, and people with disabilities are considered, consistent with their qualifications and program criteria.

(14) At military installations having a civilian work force and military units, ensure that the Civilian EEO Program is managed by and conducted for civilian personnel only and that the Military Equal Opportunity Program is managed by and conducted for military personnel only. Any exceptions to this policy must be authorized by the Component head.
