
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 191 - THE DOD CIVILIAN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) PROGRAM
###### ยง 191.6 Procedures.

(a) Officials designated in this Directive shall allocate resources necessary to develop methods and procedures to ensure that all elements of this part are fully implemented and are in compliance with the spirit and intent of the DoD Human Goals Charter, laws, executive orders, regulatory requirements, and other Directive and Instructions governing the Civilian EEO Program within the Department of Defense.

(b) Heads of DoD Components, in accordance with EEOC and OPM guidance and subject to oversight by and supplemental guidance from the ASD(FM&P), or designee shall:

(1) Develop procedures for and implement an affirmative action program for minorities and women, consistent with section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; E.O. 11478; guidance from EEOC; and guidance from OPM.

(2) Develop procedures for and implement an affirmative action program for people with disabilities consistent with section 501 of Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and guidance from EEOC.

(3) Develop procedures for and implement an affirmative action program for disabled veterans, consistent with DoD Directive 1341.6.This program shall be consistent with the program established in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and coordinated with the Component's PPD manager.

(4) Develop procedures for and implement systems for investigation and resolution of complaints of employment discrimination under section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; sections 501, 503, and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended and DoD Directive 1020.1; section 402 of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended; guidance from EEOC; and applicable case law.

(5) Develop procedures for and implement a Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program for minorities and women and a comparable special recruitment program for people with disabilities in accordance with the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978; EEOC instruction concerning affirmative action programs for people with disabilities; guidance from OPM; external recruitment programs to obtain employment applications from minorities, women, and people with disabilities who are competitive with internal DoD candidates for employment at all levels.

(6) Develop procedures for and implement all SEPs established under this part at the Component level. These SEPs shall be integral parts of the Civilian EEO Program and shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this part and applicable EEOC and OPM guidance.

(7) Develop procedures for and implement a program to eliminate sexual harassment in Component work places, consistent with DoD Policy on Sexual Harassment memorandums, and to ensure compliance with the Equal Pay Act.

(8) Develop procedures for and implement a program of employment preference for spouses of military personnel, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1404.12.

(9) Develop procedures for and implement a selective placement program for people with disabilities in accordance with guidance from OPM. This program shall be consistent with the program established in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and coordinated with the Component's PPD manager.

(10) Develop procedures for and implement staffing initiatives, training and development programs, and upward mobility programs designed to increase the representation of qualified minorities, women, and people with disabilities on certificates of eligibility and accompanying lists of individuals eligible for special appointments that are provided to selecting officials at all levels within the Component. These programs should include SES candidate programs and shall be targeted in career field in which there is underrepresentation and a likelihood of vacancies (e.g., science and engineering positions).

(11) Develop procedures for and implement a program to evaluate all supervisors and managers with EEO responsibilities on their contributions to and support of the Component's EEO program. Specifically, Component SES and General Manager personnel, when appropriate, shall have their EEO responsibilities defined as a critical element in their performance appraisals in accordance with the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.

(12) Develop procedures for an implement a program to participate in and conduct ceremonies, where appropriate, at all levels of the Component to observe nationally proclaimed or other specially-designated community activities that particularly affect minorities, women, and people with disabilities and that support the Civilian EEO Program. Military and civilian personnel should both participate whenever possible. Example of special observances include Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday, Black History Month, National Women's History Week, Women's Equality Day, Hispanic Heritage Week, National Disability Employment Awareness Month, and the Decade of Disabled Persons.

(13) Develop procedures for and implement a program to revise documents and change practices and policies that discriminate against civilian personnel on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, mental or physical disability, or age.

(14) Develop procedures for and implement and affirmative action program for the continued Federal employment of minorities, women, and people with disabilities who have lost their jobs in DoD Components because of contracting decisions made under OMB Circular No. A-76. (Under OMB Circular Federal employees have, in general, the right of first refusal of employment under these contracts.)

(15) Develop procedures for and implement a program for computer support of employees with disabilities consistent with DoD participation in activities of the Council on Accessible Technology in accordance with General Services Administration Order ADM 5420.71A.
