
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 191 - THE DOD CIVILIAN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) PROGRAM
###### ยง 191.8 Defense equal opportunity council and EEO boards.

(a) The DEOC shall be chaired by the ASD (FM&P) and shall coordinate policy for and review civilian and military equal opportunity programs, monitor progress of program elements, and advise the secretary of Defense on pertinent matters. One of the mandates of the DEOC shall be to pursue an aggressive course of action to increase the numbers of minorities, women, and people with disabilities in management and executive positions at grades 13 and above, including the SES and, at the request of the Secretary of Defense, Schedule C, and other noncareer executive positions in the SES and on the Executive Schedule. Members of the DEOC shall include the assistant Secretary of Defense (Reserve Affairs), Director of Administration and Management, and the Assistant Secretaries with responsibility for personnel policy and reserve affairs in the Military Departments.

(b) The Civilian EEO Review Board shall be chaired by the ASD(FM&P), or designee. The Board shall support the DEOC and shall be made up of designated EEO and personnel representatives from the DoD Components and such other individuals as may be necessary to carry out the work of the DEOC and implement this part. The Board shall work with career management officials, other key management officials, and union representatives in developing policies, programs, and objectives.

(c) The DoD SEP Boards shall be chaired by the DoD SEP Managers. These Boards shall be comprised of designated SEP Managers from the DoD Components and such other individuals as may be necessary to advise and assist in EEO activities and policy development in the Department of Defense. The Boards shall work with career management officials, other key management officials, and union representatives in developing policies, programs, and objectives.

(d) The DEOC, Civilian EEO Review Board, and each SEP Board established at the DoD level shall have a Charter that describes its organization, management, functions, and operating procedures, consistent with DoD Directive 5105.18.

(e) Civilian EEO Review Boards and SEP Boards may be established at Component, command, and installation levels as well as the DoD level to assist in program activities.

(f) Members of covered groups should be represented on Civilian EEO Review Boards, SEP Boards, and subcommittees at all levels; and consideration should be given to participation by military personnel and by Federal employees who are union representatives.
