
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 191 - THE DOD CIVILIAN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) PROGRAM
###### ยง 191.9 Information requirements.

(a) The ASD(FM&P) shall:

(1) Submit an annual report to the Secretary of Defense on the status of the DoD EEO program. This report shall be developed from existing documents, such as affirmative action plan accomplishment reports, civil rights budget reports, semiannual discrimination complaint reports, and Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program reports, plus statistical data obtained from the Defense Manpower Data Center and reports of visits to DoD installations.

(2) Submit consolidated DoD annual reports on discrimination complaints to the EEOC in accordance with EEOC guidance. This reporting requirement is assigned Interagency Report Control Number 0288-EEO-NA.

(b) Heads of DoD Components shall:

(1) Submit annual reports on discrimination complaints to the ASD(FM&P), or designee, in accordance with guidance from the EEOC. This reporting requirement is assigned Interagency Report Control Number 0288-EEO-NA.

(2) Submit copies of affirmative action program plan, affirmative action program plan updates, and affirmative action plan accomplishment reports for minorities, women, and people with disabilities to the ASD(FM&P), or designee, in addition to copies of annual reports for the Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program.

(3) Ensure that designated officials submit information for an annual report on computer support of employees with disabilities and for reports on individual computer accommodations for employees with disabilities. These reporting requirements are assigned RCS DD-FM&P (A) 1731 and RCS DD-FM&P (AR) 1732.
