
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### ยง 192.4 Policy.
####### National Housing Policy.

(a)Federal law prohibits discrimination in housing in the United States against any person because of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, handicap, or familial status.

(1) Title VIII of P.L. 90-284 contains the following:

(i) The fair housing provisions.

(ii) Outlines the responsibilities of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with regard to Public Law 90-284.

(iii) Requires all Executive Departments and Agencies to administer housing and urban development programs and activities under their jurisdiction in a manner that shall reflect "affirmatively" the furthering of title VIII.

(2) Title IX of Public Law 90-284 makes it a crime to intimidate willfully or interfere with any person by force or threat because of that person's activities in support of fair housing.

(3) Title 42 U.S.C. 1982 prohibits discrimination in housing in the United States. This statute protects DoD personnel.

(4) Public Law 100-430 amends title VIII of Public Law 90-284 by revising the procedures for the enforcement of fair housing requirements and adding protected classes of individuals.

(5) Title VIII of Public Law 90-284, as amended by Public Law 100-430, does not limit the applicability of any reasonable local, State, or Federal restrictions regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling. Additionally, provisions of such title VIII regarding familial status do not apply with respect to housing intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or older or intended and operated for occupancy, but at least one person 55 years of age or older. For guidance regarding housing occupied by those 55 years of age or older, use the statutory provision at section 805 b(2)(c), 102 Stat. 1623, of Public Law 100-430.
