
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### ยง 192.4 Policy.
####### DoD Fair Housing Policy.

(b)The Department of Defense intends that Federal fair housing law shall be supported and that DoD personnel shall have equal opportunity for available housing regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, handicap, or familial status.

(1) That policy includes the objective of eliminating discrimination against DoD personnel in off-base housing. That objective is not achieved simply by finding a place to live in a particular part of town or in a particular facility for a specific person.

(2) The intent is achieved when a person meeting the ordinary standards of character and financial responsibility is able to obtain off-base housing equally as any other person anywhere in the area surrounding a military installation, without suffering discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, handicap or familial status.

(i) The accomplishment of this objective shall not be hampered by requiring the submission of a formal complaint of discrimination. A suspected discriminatory act, with or without the filing of a formal complaint, is a valid basis for investigation and, if discrimination is substantiated, imposition of restrictive sanctions.

(ii) On substantiation that an agent practiced discrimination, restrictive sanctions shall be imposed for a minimum of 180 days.

(iii) The fact that Public Law 90-284, 42 U.S.C. 1982, and Public Law 100-430 may or may not provide a remedy in a given case of discrimination affecting DoD personnel does not relieve a commander of the responsibility to ensure equal treatment and equal opportunity for such personnel or to impose restrictive sanctions against the agent and/or facility, when appropriate.

(iv) Military installations shall develop information programs to apprise Service members of the DoD policy and program for equal opportunity in off-base housing. Commanders should use local community resources, such as civil rights organizations, religious and service groups, and local information media, in support of their programs.
