
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### ยง 192.5 Responsibilities.
####### Secretaries of the Military Departments

Theshall:

(a) Ensure nondiscrimination in referring DoD personnel to off-base housing facilities.

(b) Continue efforts (as described in DoD 4165.63-Mto identify and solicit nondiscriminatory assurances for housing facilities within the commuting area, which are considered to be suitable for occupancy by Service members.

(c) Ensure that an office and staff required by DoD 4165.63-M are available in conjunction with the cognizant staff judge advocate or other legal authority to advise Service members on the following:

(1) The procedures in this part.

(2) The application of Public Law 90-284, 42 U.S.C. 1982, and Public Law 100-430 in specific situations.

(3) The rights of individuals to pursue remedies through civilian channels, without recourse and in addition to the procedures prescribed in this part, including the right to:

(i) Make a complaint directly to the Department of HUD and/or to the Department of Justice (DoJ) in the United States.

(ii) Bring a private civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.

(d) Periodically review off-base housing procedures and policies to ensure effectiveness and compliance with this part. (Appendix A to this part is a checklist to help commanders with this review.)

(e) Cooperate with other Government Agencies investigating housing discrimination complaints filed by Service members.

(f) Ensure that each Military Service reports any housing discrimination cases and their results in the Annual Military Equal Opportunity Assessment Report required by DoD Instruction 1350.3.
