
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### Appendix B to Part 192 - Procedures and Reports

DoD personnel seeking off-base housing shall be processed as follows:

1. Seen by an HRS when available (optional for DoD civilian personnel).

2. Provided assistance in seeking temporary and permanent off-base housing, as follows:

a. Counseling on the equal opportunity in off-base housing program with particular emphasis placed on reporting any indication of discrimination against DoD personnel in their search for housing.

b. Counseling and personal assistance shall include the following services:

(1) Offering to check by telephone the availability of selected listings. A record shall be made and retained for future reference of the date, time, and nature of any conversation confirming the availability of a facility. The race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, or familial status of the applicant shall not be divulged. Caution must be exercised to ensure that a pattern of "confirmation only for minorities" does not develop.

(2) Offering the services of a command representative (such as a unit sponsor or other designated person, when available) to accompany and assist the applicant in the search for housing.

(3) Explaining various discriminatory methods that may be employed by agents. For instance, an agent may arbitrarily refuse to accept or consider the applicant as a tenant, falsely indicate the unit sought has been rented to another applicant, or refuse to make the unit available under the same terms and conditions as are ordinarily applied to applicants for the facilities. In such instances the following shall apply:

(a) The agent shall be queried on the reasons why the unit is not available. After all reasonable steps have been taken to ascertain whether any valid nondiscriminatory reason can be shown for the agent's rejection of the applicant, and if there appears to be no such reason, a reasonable effort shall be made to persuade the agent to make the unit available to the applicant.

(b) The incident shall be reported immediately by the command representative and the applicant to the HRS for appropriate command action.

Commanders shall ensure that all DoD personnel are informed of the scope and provisions of the DoD Equal Opportunity in Off-Base Housing Program and advised to report immediately to the HRS (when available) any form of discrimination encountered when seeking housing within a Civilian Community. Incidents should be reported to base agencies or command representatives when an HRS is not available (i.e., equal opportunity officer, unit commander, supervisor). A verbal or written statement of discriminatory policy by an agent is considered to be an act or incident of discrimination, and the investigative procedures outlined in this appendix shall be followed.
