
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### Appendix B to Part 192 - Procedures and Reports
####### Inquiry into Complaint.

1.Complaints of off-base housing discrimination must receive prompt attention. An inquiry into the complaint shall begin within 3 working days after receipt of the complaint. The inquiry may be informal, but must be detailed sufficiently to determine if discrimination occurred. Upon receipt of a discrimination complaint, the HRS (if there is no HRS, a command designated representative) shall take the following action:

a. Immediately notify the commander.

b. Promptly interview the complainant to determine the details and circumstances of the alleged discriminatory act.

c. Immediately telephone or visit the facility and/or agent concerned, if the complaint is received shortly after the time of the alleged act and it concerns the change in availability of a vacancy (i.e., "just rented," etc.). Attempt to determine if a vacancy exists without making reference to the complaint received. Request the commander to authorize the use of verifiers, as necessary. (See this appendix, subsection B.2.)

d. Advise the complainant of the provisions and procedures in this Instruction and of the right to pursue further actions through HUD, DoJ, and local or State agencies. Coordinate efforts with the Office of Judge Advocate or other cognizant legal counsel to determine to what extent legal assistance can be provided to the complainant. Assist the complainant in completing seven signed, dated, and notarized copies of HUD Form 903, "Housing Discrimination Complaint." The fact that a complainant might report an act of alleged discriminatory treatment, but declines completing a HUD Form 903, does not relieve the command of responsibility for making further inquiry and taking such subsequent actions, as may be appropriate.

e. Document the complainant's action for future reference and inform the commander of the results of the HRS preliminary inquiry and actions taken. The commander shall take action to assist the complainant in obtaining suitable housing. If, due to previous discriminatory practices in the community, suitable housing cannot be obtained by the complainant in a reasonable amount of time, the complainant and the commander may use this fact to justify a request for priority in obtaining military housing or for humanitarian reassignment. Reassignment action is a last resort and must be justified fully through command personnel channels.
