
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### Appendix B to Part 192 - Procedures and Reports
####### Use of Verifiers.

2.Verifiers are authorized to determine if a vacancy exists and whether or not rental or such practices are discriminatory. Verifiers shall not be used only for determining sincerity or normal practices of an agent about whom the HRS has not received a housing discrimination complaint.

a. When selecting and using verifiers, the following applies:

(1) Verification of the vacancy shall be made expediently after alleged act of discrimination.

(2) Verifiers may be volunteers. (The equal opportunity office is a possible source for identifying individuals to be used as verifiers.)

(3) The purpose of verification is to isolate the attribute of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap, or familial status that is the suspected basis for the alleged discrimination against the complainant. Except for those attributes that are considered to be the source of the discrimination complaint, the verifier should possess attributes that are similar to the complainant. If two verifiers are used, one may possess similar attributes to the complainant. Ideally, two verifiers should be used.

b. Instructions provided to the verifiers by HRS personnel should include the following:

(1) Explanation of the equal opportunity in off-base housing and off-base housing referral programs.

(2) Verifiers are to obtain information only on agent and/or facility operating policies, practices, and procedures for subsequent determination of complaint validity.

(3) Verifiers are not to make a verbal or written contract for the housing unit, pay any money, or say they want the housing unit.

(4) Verifiers shall be knowledgeable concerning family composition, pets, and housing requirements of the complainant; they shall ask for identical housing requirements.

(5) The following information shall be obtained by the verifier, if possible:
