
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### Appendix B to Part 192 - Procedures and Reports
####### Concerning the Prospective Tenants/Purchasers.

(b)If possible, ascertain criteria and qualifications that must be met (credit rating, salary, marital status, deposit, written application, etc.) and obtain a complete description of all procedures for becoming a tenant/purchaser including all steps from initial inquiry to moving in. Does the agent's subjective impression of the applicant appear to play any part in the decision to rent the unit?

(6) The verifier's statement shall be completed immediately after the verification visit, if possible. It shall be accurate, objective, and factual. Include the following in the statement:

(a) Date, time of visit, persons contacted, positions of persons contacted. Include any other pertinent information obtained during visit; i.e., length of time employed at facility, in addition to the information in this appendix, subparagraph B.2.b.(5), above.

(b) When reconstructing a conversation, write in the first person and try to use direct quotes. Do not use pronouns such as "he," "she," or "they." Clearly identify who said what to whom.

(c) Sign and date statement. Give full name, address, telephone number (duty or home), race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap or familial status, as relevant to the complaint.
