
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### Appendix B to Part 192 - Procedures and Reports
####### Commander's Decision.

4.The responsibility for imposition of restrictive sanctions rests with the commander and cannot be delegated. The commander's decision shall be based on a full and impartial review of all facts and the policies and requirements as stated in this part. The commander's options include the following:

a. If the commander determines that more information is required, or for any reason further inquiry is deemed necessary, an officer shall be appointed from sources other than the HRS to conduct a formal inquiry or investigation, as the situation warrants. The officer, if not an attorney, shall be afforded the advice and assistance of a Staff Judge Advocate or other cognizant legal counsel.

b. If, in the commander's judgment, the inquiry or investigation fails to support the complaint the case shall be considered closed and the commander shall:

(1) Inform the complainant in writing of all actions taken and advise the complainant of rights to pursue further actions to include the following:

(a) The right to submit a complaint to the HUD and the DoJ.

(b) The right to bring a private civil action in a State or Federal court of competent jurisdiction.

(c) The availability of legal assistance from their local Staff Judge Advocate or other cognizant legal counsel in pursuing civil redress.

(2) Summarize in the report file the practices giving rise to the complaint, the actions and results of the inquiry or investigation, and if discriminatory practices were found, written assurances from the agent on future facility and/or agent practices. The following statement, completed by the complainant, shall be included, as part of the case file: "I am (am not) satisfied with the efforts taken by the commander on my behalf to achieve satisfactory resolution of my off-base housing discrimination complaint." If the complainant indicates a lack of satisfaction, the reasons must be included in the case file.

(3) Inform the agent of the results of the inquiry by command correspondence if an informal hearing was held. Such correspondence should reiterate DoD policy and requirements for equal opportunity in off-base housing.

(4) Forward unsubstantiated complaint reports and HUD Form 903 to the HUD and the DoJ if requested by the complainant.

(5) Retain a copy of the report file for 2 years for future reference.

c. If the inquiry or investigation supports the complainant's charge of discrimination and the discriminatory act is determined by the commander to conflict with DoD policy, the commander shall:

(1) Impose restrictive sanctions against the agent and/or facility for a minimum of 180 days. Sanctions shall remain in effect until the requirements in this appendix, subparagraphs B.6.a.(1) or B.6.a.(2), below, are met. Restrictive sanctions shall be imposed when a suspected discriminatory act, despite the absence of a formal complaint, is investigated and found valid. The fact that a validated discrimination complaint and/or incident has been or is scheduled to be forwarded to another Agency (the HUD, the DoJ, etc.) is not cause for withholding sanction action pending the outcome of that Agency's further review or investigation. When imposing a restrictive sanction, the commander shall:

(a) Remove the facility listing(s) from HRO files.

(b) Impose restrictive sanctions against all facilities owned or operated by the agent concerned.

(c) Place the facility on the restrictive sanction list maintained by the HRS. The restrictive sanction list shall be prepared on official letterhead stationery, signed by the commander, and include the authority for and conditions of the restrictive sanctions.

(d) Inform the agent concerned by command correspondence that:

(1) Restrictive sanctions have been imposed.

(2) The reasons, nature, and minimum duration of the restrictions.

(3) The action required for the removal of sanctions at the conclusion of the minimum period.

(e) Provide all DoD personnel reporting to the HRS with a copy of the restrictive sanction list, and advise members of the Armed Forces that they may not rent, lease, purchase, or reside in any of the listed facilities. Obtain a signed acknowledgment of receipt of the restrictive sanction list from the HRS using a DD Form 1746, "Application for Assignment to Housing."

(f) Advise other military installations of the restrictive sanction action taken when the sanctioned facility is located within the commuting area of their military installations.

(2) Inform the complainant in writing of all actions taken and advise the complainant that his or her case will receive continuing action to include, if the complainant requests, forwarding the case file to the HUD and/or the DoJ for action.

(3) Before forwarding the report to the respective Military Department, prepare a memorandum outlining the following:

(a) The base efforts made to obtain housing relief for the complainant.

(b) The impact of restrictive sanctions on the off-base housing program and DoD personnel and their dependents.

(c) Any other considerations deemed relevant.

(4) Include a statement completed by the complainant for the case file. (See this appendix, subparagraph B.4.b.(3), above.)

(5) If the act of discrimination falls within existing regulations, forward a copy of the complaint and investigation report directly to the HUD within 180 days after the occurrence of the alleged discriminating act, using HUD Form 903. The original report shall be sent to the appropriate HUD Regional Office or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, 451 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20410. A copy of the complaint and investigation report shall be forwarded to the Civil Rights Division, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530.

(6) When more than one complaint alleging discrimination in the same facility or by the same agent has been received, consolidate the complaints for the inquiry, legal review, and commander's memorandum.

d. When a commander receives a complaint alleging further discrimination in a facility or by an agent after a completed case file has been closed, the commander shall forward the summary of the facts on the subsequent complaint, outlined in this enclosure, subparagraph B.4.c.(6), above. Include brief comments indicating the extent to which the new complaint affects the previous action.
