
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### Appendix B to Part 192 - Procedures and Reports
####### Followup Actions.

5.After forwarding the report and all required attachments to the HUD and the DoJ, the commander shall take the following actions:

a. Cooperate with the HUD, the DoJ, and the local and State agency representatives during their investigation and processing of the case, should those entities seek assistance.

b. Periodically determine the status of the case by maintaining liaison with the HUD office concerned. Contact shall be maintained until such time as the case is resolved by the HUD.

c. Ensure that the complainant is kept informed directly by the HUD and/or the DoJ.

d. Ensure that DoD personnel comply with the restrictive sanctions imposed on the facility and/or the agent. Housing personnel will comply with the following:

(1) Military personnel moving into or changing their place of residence in the commuting area of a military installation or activity may not enter into a rental, purchase, or lease arrangement with an agent or a facility that is under restrictive sanction.

(2) Implement procedures for ensuring that DoD personnel seeking housing are made aware of, and are counselled on, current restrictive sanctions.

(3) Sanctions are not applicable to the DoD personnel who may be residing in a facility when the sanction is imposed or to the extension or renewal of a rental or lease agreement originally entered into before the imposition of the sanction. Relocation of a military tenant within a restricted facility is prohibited without the written approval of the commander.

(4) If it is determined that a member of the Armed Forces has intentionally taken residency in a restricted facility contrary to instructions received by Housing Referral personnel, the commander shall take appropriate disciplinary action against that number.

(5) Periodically publish a current listing of restricted facilities in the base bulletin (or other appropriate means of internal distribution). Minimally, such publication shall occur when there has been an addition or deletion to the list.
