
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 192 - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN OFF-BASE HOUSING
###### Appendix B to Part 192 - Procedures and Reports
####### "Privacy Act" and "Freedom of Information Act" Inquiries.

7.Requests for information from reports of housing discrimination shall be processed in accordance with 32 CFR parts 285 and 286a.

Commanders of installations or activities outside the United States shall ensure that all DoD personnel, on reporting to the HRS, are clearly informed of the scope and provisions of the DoD Equal Opportunity in Off-Base Housing Program and advised to report immediately to the HRS any form of discrimination encountered as a tenant, prospective tenant, or purchaser. Incidents reported to base agencies or representatives other than the HRS (i.e., equal opportunity officer, unit commander, supervisor) shall be brought to the immediate attention of the HRS for appropriate action. On receiving a complaint of discrimination, the commander and HRS shall:

1. Consult with the Staff Judge Advocate or other cognizant legal counsel to determine if the laws of the country concerned (or any subdivision thereof) prohibit any of the actions outlined in this appendix, section B., above.

2. Take actions outlined in this appendix, section B, above, except that a HUD Form 903 shall not be completed because reports of cases arising outside the United States are not forwarded to the HUD or the DoJ. Complainants should understand that the fair housing provisions of the P.L. 90-284, "Civil Rights Act," Title 42, United States, 1982, and Public Law 100-430, "Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988," September 13, 1988, are not applicable in areas outside the United States.

3. Determine, with legal advice, whether redress for the discriminatory act should be sought from authorities in the host country. Redress shall be based on the laws of the country (or subdivision thereof) concerned.

1. A copy of each complaint and investigative report that substantiates a housing discrimination shall be submitted to the appropriate Military Department (manpower and reserve affairs and/or the equal opportunity office) not later than 45 days from the date the case is completed. Under normal circumstances, the commander of the installation concerned shall complete the required investigation and processing complaints within 45 days from the date that a housing complaint is filed by a complainant.

2. A copy of complaint and investigative reports that do not substantiate allegations of housing discrimination shall be kept on file at the installation level for a 24-month period beginning from the date the case was completed.
