
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 193 - HIGHWAYS FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE
###### ยง 193.4 Authorities and responsibilities.

(a) The Secretary of the Army, as the Single Manager for Military Traffic, Land Transportation, and Common-User Ocean Terminals (see DoD Directive 5160.53, Single Manager Assignment for Military Traffic, Land Transportation, and Common-User Ocean Terminals, March 24, 1967 (32 FR 5295)), is hereby designated as the Executive Agent for the Department of Defense (hereinafter referred to as the Executive Agent), in matters pertaining to public highways to serve the national defense in meeting both peacetime and mobilization highway transportation needs in the United States, its territories and possessions; and highway needs of other Federal agencies, when appropriate. The Executive Agent, or his designee, under the policy guidance of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Installations and Logistics), will:

(1) Coordinate the defense transportation interest in public highways, including the implementation of subsection (h), section 210 of Title 23 U.S. Code, and integrate foreseen DoD highway needs and operational requirements into the highway programs of the United States, its territories and possessions.

(2) Review and analyze DoD access road needs, and, when appropriate, those of other Federal agencies from the standpoint of approved transportation engineering practices, statutory provisions, and policies and procedures of the Bureau of Public Roads, Department of Transportation.

(3) Represent the DoD in matters pertaining to highways to serve the national defense in liaison with the Bureau of Public Roads, the American Association of State Highway Officials, and other appropriate Government and non-Government agencies.

(4) Certify on behalf of the Secretary of Defense to the appropriate Government agency, the public highway needs of the DoD and, when appropriate, the needs of other Federal agencies, as being important to the national defense. (See section 210, Title 23, U.S. Code.)

(5) Advise and assist the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) in matters pertaining to the (i) preparation and justification of budget requirements for defense access road needs, and (ii) transfer of funds appropriated for this purpose to the Bureau of Public Roads.

(6) Develop and maintain an efficient relationship between the design of military vehicles and State and Federal standards for the design of public highways to ensure the effective and efficient utilization of such highways by military vehicles.

(7) Provide highway traffic engineering services to DoD components, when requested.

(8) Insure effective cooperation between the Department of Defense and state highway authorities in matters pertaining to special defense utilization of public highways.

(b) The other DoD Components will:

(1) Maintain official liaison with the Executive Agent in matters pertaining to the provision of public highways to serve the national defense and the access road needs of new or expanded DoD installations and activities.

(2) Furnish the Executive Agent with information and data on current and potential access-road and highway-system needs on request.

(c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments, or their designees, are authorized to act for the Secretary of Defense under the provisions of subsection (h) of section 210, Title 23, U.S. Code, in determining, in connection with the funding of contracts for the construction of classified military installations and facilities for ballistic missiles, that construction estimates and the bids of contractors did not include allowances for repairing road damages.

(d) The Secretaries of the Military Departments and the Directors of DoD Agencies will program, budget, and finance for the responsibilities assigned by this part and their access road requirements (see Pub. L. 90-180, Military Construction Appropriation Act, fiscal year 1968, and successor statutes) in accordance with applicable program and financial guidelines and procedures.
