
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 197 - HISTORICAL RESEARCH IN THE FILES OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (OSD)
###### ยง 197.4 Policy.

It is OSD policy that:

(a) Pursuant to Executive Order 13526, anyone requesting access to classified material must possess the requisite security clearance.

(b) Members of the public seeking the declassification of DoD documents under the provisions of section 3.5 of Executive Order 13526 will contact the appropriate OSD Component as listed in DoD Manual 5230.30.

(c) Records and information requested by FPA and approved historical researchers will be accessed at a facility under the control of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), NARA's Archives II in College Park, Maryland, a Presidential library, or an appropriate U.S. military facility or a DoD activity in accordance with Vol 3 of DoD Manual 5200.01, "DoD Information Security Program," February 24, 2012, as amended.

(d) Access to records and information will be limited to the specific records within the scope of the proposed research request over which OSD has authority and to any other records for which the written consent of other agencies with authority has been granted in accordance with Vol 3 of DoD Manual 5200.01, "DoD Information Security Program," February 24, 2012, as amended.

(e) Access to unclassified OSD Component records and information will be permitted consistent with the restrictions of the exemptions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (also known and referred to in this part as the "Freedom of Information Act" (FOIA), 32 CFR part 286, ยง 197.5 of this part, and consistent with 32 CFR part 310. The procedures for access to classified information will be used if the requested unclassified information is contained in OSD files whose overall markings are classified.

(f) Except as otherwise provided in DoD Manual 5200.01 volume 3, no person may have access to classified information unless that person has been determined to be trustworthy and access is essential to the accomplishment of a lawful and authorized purpose.

(g) Persons outside the Executive Branch who are engaged in approved historical research projects may be granted access to classified information, consistent with the provisions of Executive Order 13526 and DoD Manual 5200.01 volume 1 provided that the OSD official with classification jurisdiction over that information grants access.

(h) Contractors working for Executive Branch agencies may be allowed access to classified OSD Component files provided the contractors meet all the required criteria for such access as an historical researcher including the appropriate level of personnel security clearance set forth in paragraphs (a) and (i) of this section. No copies of OSD records and information may be released directly to the contractors. The Washington Headquarters Services Records and Declassification Division (WHS/RDD) will be responsible for ensuring that the contractor safeguards the documents and the information is only used for the project for which it was requested per section 4.1 of Executive Order 13526, "Classified National Security Information," December 29, 2009.

(i) All DoD-employed requesters, to include DoD contractors, must have critical nuclear weapons design information (CNWDI) to access CNWDI information. All other non DoD and non-Executive Branch personnel must have a Department of Energy-issued "Q" clearance to access CNWDI information in accordance with DoD Manual 5220.22, "National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM)," February 28, 2006, as amended.

(j) The removal of federal records and information from OSD custody is not authorized; this includes copies and email according to 36 CFR 1230.10. Copies of records and information that are national security classified will remain under the control of the agency.

(k) Access for FPAs is limited to records they originated, reviewed, signed, or received while serving as Presidential appointees, unless there is another basis for providing access in accordance with Vol 3 of DoD Manual 5200.01, "DoD Information Security Program," February 24, 2012, as amended.

(l) Authorization is required from all agencies whose classified information is, or is expected to be, in the requested files prior to granting approval for access. Separate authorizations for access to records and information maintained in OSD Component office files or at the federal records centers will not be required in accordance with Vol 3 of DoD Manual 5200.01, "DoD Information Security Program," February 24, 2012, as amended.
