
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 197 - HISTORICAL RESEARCH IN THE FILES OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (OSD)
###### ยง 197.6 Procedures.
####### Procedures for historical researchers permanently assigned within the Executive Branch working on official projects.

(a)(1) In accordance with ยง 197.5, the WHS-serviced Components heads, when requested, will:

(i) Make a written determination that the requested access is essential to the accomplishment of a lawful and authorized U.S. Government purpose, stating whether the requested records can be made available. If disapproved, cite specific reasons.

(ii) Provide the location of the requested records, including accession and box numbers if the material has been retired to the Washington National Records Center (WNRC).

(iii) Provide a point of contact for liaison with the OSD Records Administrator if any requested records are located in OSD Component working files.

(2) The historical researcher or requestor will:

(i) Submit a request for access to OSD files to: OSD Records Administrator, WHS/Records and Declassification Division, 4800 Mark Center Drive, Suite 02F09-02, Alexandria, VA 22350-3100.

(ii) All requests must be signed by an appropriate official and must contain:

(A) The name(s) of the researcher(s) and any assistant(s), level of security clearance, and the federal agency, institute, or company to which the researcher is assigned.

(B) A statement on the purpose of the project, including whether the final product is to be classified or unclassified.

(C) An explicit description of the information being requested and, if known, the originating office, so that the identification and location of the information may be facilitated.

(D) Appropriate higher authorization of the request.

(E) Ensure researcher's security manager or personnel security office verifies his or her security clearances in writing to the OSD Records Administrator's Security Manager.

(iii) Maintain the file integrity of the records being reviewed, ensuring that no records are removed and that all folders are replaced in the correct box in their proper order.

(iv) Make copies of any documents pertinent to the project, ensuring that staples are carefully removed and that the documents are re-stapled before they are replaced in the folder.

(v) Submit the completed manuscript for review prior to public presentation or publication to:

(vi) If the requester is an official historian of a federal agency requiring access to DoD records at the National Archives facilities or a Presidential library, the requested must be addressed directly to the pertinent facility with an information copy sent to the OSD Records Administrator. The historian's security clearances must be verified to the National Archives or the Presidential library.

(3) The use of computers, laptops, computer tablets, personal digital assistants, recorders, or similar devices listed in ยง 197.6(f) is prohibited. Researchers will use letter-sized paper (approximately 8by 11 inches), writing on only one side of the page. Each page of notes must pertain to only one document.

(4) The following applies to all notes taken during research:

(i) All notes are considered classified at the level of the document from which they were taken.

(ii) Indicate at the top of each page of notes the document:

(A) Originator.

(B) Date.

(C) Subject (if the subject is classified, indicate the classification).

(D) Folder number or other identification.

(E) Accession number and box number in which the document was found.

(F) Security classification of the document.

(iii) Number each page of notes consecutively.

(iv) Leave the last 1inches on the bottom of each page of notes blank for use by the reviewing agencies.

(v) Ensure the notes are legible, in English, and in black ink.

(vi) All notes must be given to the staff at the end of each day. The facility staff will forward the notes to the OSD Records Administrator for an official review and release to the researcher.

(5) The OSD Records Administrator will:

(i) Process all requests from Executive Branch employees requesting access to OSD Component files for official projects.

(ii) Determine which OSD Component originated the requested records and, if necessary, request an access determination from the OSD Component and the location of the requested records, including but not limited to electronic information systems, databases or accession number and box numbers if the hardcopy records have been retired offsite.

(iii) Request authorization for access from other OSD Component as necessary.

(A) Official historians employed by federal agencies may have access to the classified information of any other agency found in DoD files, as long as authorization for access has been obtained from these agencies.

(B) If the requester is not an official historian, authorization for access must be obtained from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), National Security Council (NSC), Department of State (DOS), and any other non-DoD agency whose classified information is expected to be found in the files to be accessed.

(iv) Make a written determination as to the researcher's trustworthiness based on the researcher having been issued a security clearance.

(v) Compile all information on the request for access to classified information, to include evidence of an appropriately issued personnel security clearance, and forward the information to the DA, ODCMO; OSD Component or designee, who will make the access determination.

(vi) Notify the researcher of the authorization and conditions for access to the requested records or of the denial of access and the reason(s).

(vii) Ensure that all conditions for access and release of information for use in the project are met.

(viii) Make all necessary arrangements for the researcher to visit the review location and review the requested records.

(ix) Provide all requested records and information under OSD control in electronic formats consistent with 36 CFR part 1236. For all other information, a staff member will be assigned to supervise the researcher's copying of pertinent documents at the assigned facility.

(x) If the records are maintained in the OSD Component's working files, arrange for the material to be converted to electronic format for the researchers to review.

(xi) Notify the National Archives, Presidential library, or military facility of the authorization and access conditions of all researchers approved to research OSD records held in those facilities.
