
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 197 - HISTORICAL RESEARCH IN THE FILES OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (OSD)
###### ยง 197.6 Procedures.
####### Procedures for the DOS Foreign Relations of the United States (FRUS) series.

(b)(1) The DOS historians will:

(i) Submit requests for access to OSD files. The request should list the names and security clearances for the historians doing the research and an explicit description, including the accession and box numbers, of the files being requested. Submit request to: OSD Records Administrator, WHS/Records and Declassification Division, 4800 Mark Center Dr, Suite 02F09-02, Alexandria, VA 22380-2100.

(ii) Submit to the OSD Records Administrator requests for access for members of the Advisory Committee on Historical Diplomatic Documentation to documents copied by the DOS historians for the series or the files reviewed to obtain the documents.

(iii) Request that the DOS Diplomatic Security staff verify all security clearances in writing to the OSD Records Administrator's Security Manager.

(iv) Give all document copies to the OSD Records Administrator staff member who is supervising the copying as they are made.

(v) Submit any OSD documents desired for use or pages of the manuscript containing OSD classified information for declassification review prior to publication to the Chief, Security Review Division at: WHS/Chief, Security Review Division, Office of Security Review, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1155.

(2) The OSD Records Administrator will:

(i) Determine the location of the records being requested by the DOS for the FRUS series according to Title IV of Public Law 102-138, "The Foreign Relations of the United States Historical Series."

(ii) Act as a liaison with the CIA, NSC, and any other non-OSD agency for access by DOS historians to records and information and such non-DoD agency classified information expected to be interfiled with the requested OSD records.

(iii) Obtain written verification from the DOS Diplomatic Security staff of all security clearances, including "Q" clearances.

(iv) Make all necessary arrangements for the DOS historians to access, review, and copy documents selected for use in their research in accordance with procedures in accordance with ยง 197.6(a).

(v) Provide a staff member to supervise document copying in accordance with the guidance provided in ยง 197.6(d) of this part.

(vi) Compile a list of the documents that were copied by the DOS historians.

(vii) Scan and transfer copies to DOS in NARA an approved electronic format.

(viii) Submit to the respective agency a list of CIA and NSC documents copied and released to the DOS historians.

(ix) Process DOS Historian Office requests for members of the Advisory Committee on Historical Diplomatic Documentation with appropriate security clearances to have access to documents copied and used by the DOS historians to compile the FRUS series volumes or to the files that were reviewed to obtain the copied documents. Make all necessary arrangements for the Advisory Committee to review any documents that are at the WNRC.
