
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 197 - HISTORICAL RESEARCH IN THE FILES OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (OSD)
###### ยง 197.6 Procedures.
####### Procedures for historical researchers not permanently assigned to the Executive Branch.

(c)(1) The WHS-serviced Components heads, when required, will:

(i) Recommend to the DA, ODCMO, or his or her designee, approval or disapproval of requests to access OSD information. State whether access to, release, and clearance of the requested information is in the interest of national security and whether the information can be made available. If disapproval is recommended, specific reasons should be cited.

(ii) Provide the location of the requested information, including but not limited to the office, component, information system or accession and box numbers for any records that have been retired to the WNRC.

(iii) Provide a point of contact for liaison with the OSD Records Administrator if any requested records are located in OSD Component working files.

(2) The OSD Records Administrator will:

(i) Process all requests from non-Executive Branch researchers for access to OSD or WHS-serviced Components files. Certify via the WHS Security Officer that the requester has the appropriate clearances.

(ii) Determine which OSD Component originated the requested records and, as necessary, obtain written recommendations for the research to review the classified information.

(iii) Obtain prior authorization to review their classified information from the DOS, CIA, NSC, and any other agency whose classified information is expected to be interfiled with OSD records.

(iv) Obtain agreement from the researcher(s) and any assistant(s) that they will comply with conditions governing access to the classified information (see Figure to ยง 197.6).

(v) If the requester is an FPA, submit a memorandum after completion of the actions described in this part to WHS, Human Resources Directorate, Security Operations Division, requesting the issuance (including an interim) or reinstatement of an inactive security clearance for the FPA and any assistant and a copy of any signed form letters. The Security Division will contact the researcher(s) and any assistant(s) to obtain the forms required to reinstate or initiate the personnel security investigation to obtain a security clearance. Upon completion of the adjudication process, notify the OSD Records Administrator in writing of the reinstatement, issuance, or denial of a security clearance.

(vi) Make a written determination as to the researcher's trustworthiness based on his or her having been issued a security clearance.

(vii) Compile all information on the request for access to classified information, to include either evidence of an appropriately issued or reinstated personnel security clearance. Forward the information to the DA, ODCMO or designee, who will make the final determination on the applicant's eligibility for access to classified OSD or WHS-serviced Component files. If the determination is favorable, the DA, ODCMO or designee will then execute an authorization for access, which will be valid for not more than 2 years.

(viii) Notify the researcher of the approval or disapproval of the request. If the request has been approved, the notification will identify the files authorized for review and specify that the authorization:

(A) Is approved for a predetermined time period.

(B) Is limited to the designated files.

(C) Does not include access to records and/or information of other federal agencies, unless such access has been specifically authorized by those agencies.

(ix) Make all necessary arrangements for the researcher to visit the WNRC and review any requested records that have been retired there, to include written authorization, conditions for the access, and a copy of the security clearance verification.

(x) If the requested records are at the WNRC, make all necessary arrangements for the scanning of documents.

(xi) If the requested records are maintained in OSD or WHS-serviced Component working files, make arrangements for the researcher to review the requested information and, if authorized, copy pertinent documents in the OSD or WHS-serviced Component's office. Provide the OSD Component with a copy of the written authorization and conditions under which the access is permitted.

(xii) Compile a list of all the documents requested by the researcher.

(xiii) Coordinate the official review on all notes taken and documents copied by the researcher.

(xiv) If the classified information to be reviewed is on file at the National Archives, a Presidential library, or other facility, notify the pertinent facility in writing of the authorization and conditions for access.

(3) The researcher will:

(i) Submit a request for access to OSD Component files to OSD Records Administrator, WHS/Records and Declassification Division, 4800 Mark Center Drive, Suite 02F09-02, Alexandria VA 22350-3100. The request must contain:

(A) As explicit a description as possible of the information being requested so that identification and location of the information may be facilitated.

(B) A statement as to how the information will be used, including whether the final project is to be classified or unclassified.

(C) A statement as to whether the researcher has a security clearance, including the level of clearance and the name of the issuing agency.

(D) The names of any persons who will be assisting the researcher with the project. If the assistants have security clearances, provide the level of clearance and the name of the issuing agency.

(E) A signed copy of their agreement (see Figure) to safeguard the information and to authorize a review of any notes and manuscript for a determination that they contain no classified information. Each project assistant must also sign a copy of the letter.

(F) The forms necessary to obtain a security clearance, if the requester is an FPA without an active security clearance. Each project assistant without an active security clearance will also need to complete these forms. If the FPA or assistant have current security clearances, their personnel security office must provide verification in writing to the OSD Records Administrator's Security Manager.

(ii) Maintain the integrity of the files being reviewed, ensuring that no records are removed and that all folders are replaced in the correct box in their proper order.

(iii) If copies are authorized, give all copies to the custodian of the files at the end of each day. The custodian will forward the copies of the documents to the OSD Records Administrator for a declassification review and release to the requester.

(A) For records at the WNRC, if authorized, provide the requested information in an electronic format. Review will occur only in the presence of an OSD Records Administrator staff member.

(B) Ensure that all staples are carefully removed and that the documents are re-stapled before the documents are replaced in the folder.

(C) Submit all classified and unclassified notes made from the records to the custodian of the files at the end of each day of research. The custodian will transmit the notes to the OSD Records Administrator for an official review and release to the researcher at the completion of researcher's project.
