
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 197 - HISTORICAL RESEARCH IN THE FILES OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (OSD)
###### ยง 197.6 Procedures.
####### Procedures for document review for the FRUS series.

(d)(1) When documents are being reviewed, a WHS/RDD staff member must be present at all times.

(2) The records maybe reviewed at a Presidential Library Archives II, College Park Maryland, WNRC, Suitland, Maryland, or an appropriate military facility. All requested information will remain under the control of the WHS/RDD staff until a public release review is completed, and then provided in electronic formats.

(3) If the requested records have been reviewed in accordance with the automatic declassification provisions of Executive Order 13526, any tabs removed during the research and copying must be replaced in accordance with DoD Manual 5200.01 volume 2.

(4) The number of boxes to be reviewed will determine which of the following procedures will apply. The WHS/RDD staff member will make that determination at the time the request is processed. When the historian completes the review of the boxes, he or she must contact the WHS/RDD to establish a final schedule for scanning the documents. To avoid a possible delay, a tentative schedule will be established at the time that the review schedule is set.

(i) For 24 boxes or fewer, review and scanning will take place simultaneously. Estimated time to complete scanning is 7 work days.

(ii) For 25 boxes or more, the historian will review the boxes and mark the documents that are to be scanned using WHS/RDD authorized reproduction tabs.

(iii) If the review occurs at facilities that OSD does not control ownership of the document, the documents must be given to the WHS/RDD staff member for transmittal for processing.

(5) WHS/RDD will notify the historian when the documents are ready to be picked up. All administrative procedures for classified material transfers will be followed in accordance with DoD Manual 5200.01 volume 1 and DoD 5220.22-M and appropriate receipt for unclassified information will be used.
