
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 197 - HISTORICAL RESEARCH IN THE FILES OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (OSD)
###### ยง 197.6 Procedures.
####### Procedures for copying documents.

(e)(1) The records will be reviewed and copied at a Presidential Library, Archives II, College Park Maryland, WNRC, Suitland, Maryland, or an appropriate U.S. military facility.

(2) If the requested records have been reviewed in accordance with the automatic declassification provisions of Executive Order 13526 any tabs removed during the research and copying must be replaced in accordance with DoD Manual 5200.01 volume 2.

(3) The researcher will mark the documents that he or she wants to copy using WHS/RDD authorized reproduction tabs.

(4) Any notes taken during the review process must be given to the WHS/RDD staff member present for transmittal to the WHS/RDD.

(5) All reproduction charges are to the responsibility of the researcher.

(6) All documents requested will be copied to an approved electronic format by WHS/RDD staff after official review.

(i) The researcher will need to bring paper, staples, staple remover, and stapler.

(ii) When the researcher completes the review of the boxes, he or she must contact the WHS/RDD to establish a final schedule for scanning the requested documents.

(iii) When the documents are scanned, the WHS/RDD will notify the researcher.

(iv) All questions pertaining to the review, copying, or transmittal of OSD documents must be addressed to the WHS/RDD staff member.
