
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.2 Definitions.
####### Reliable evidence.

(1) As used in ยง 199.4(g)(15), the term reliable evidence means only:

(i) Well controlled studies of clinically meaningful endpoints, published in refereed medical literature.

(ii) Published formal technology assessments.

(iii) The published reports of national professional medical associations.

(iv) Published national medical policy organization positions; and

(v) The published reports of national expert opinion organizations.

(2) The hierarchy of reliable evidence of proven medical effectiveness, established by (1) through (5) of this paragraph, is the order of the relative weight to be given to any particular source. With respect to clinical studies, only those reports and articles containing scientifically valid data and published in the refereed medical and scientific literature shall be considered as meeting the requirements of reliable evidence. Specifically not included in the meaning of reliable evidence are reports, articles, or statements by providers or groups of providers containing only abstracts, anecdotal evidence or personal professional opinions. Also not included in the meaning of reliable evidence is the fact that a provider or a number of providers have elected to adopt a drug, device, or medical treatment or procedure as their personal treatment or procedure of choice or standard of practice.
