
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.2 Definitions.
####### Supplemental insurance plan.

A health insurance policy or other health benefit plan offered by a private entity to a CHAMPUS beneficiary, that primarily is designed, advertised, marketed, or otherwise held out as providing payment for expenses incurred for services and items that are not reimbursed under CHAMPUS due to program limitations, or beneficiary liabilities imposed by law. CHAMPUS recognizes two types of supplemental plans, general indemnity plans, and those offered through a direct service health maintenance organization (HMO).

(1) An indemnity supplemental insurance plan must meet all of the following criteria:

(i) It provides insurance coverage, regulated by state insurance agencies, which is available only to beneficiaries of CHAMPUS.

(ii) It is premium based and all premiums relate only to the CHAMPUS supplemental coverage.

(iii) Its benefits for all covered CHAMPUS beneficiaries are predominantly limited to non-covered services, to the deductible and cost-shared portions of the pre-determined allowable charges, and/or to amounts exceeding the allowable charges for covered services.

(iv) It provides insurance reimbursement by making payment directly to the CHAMPUS beneficiary or to the participating provider.

(v) It does not operate in a manner which results in lower deductibles or cost-shares than those imposed by law, or that waives the legally imposed deductibles or cost-shares.

(2) A supplemental insurance plan offered by a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) must meet all of the following criteria:

(i) The HMO must be authorized and must operate under relevant provisions of state law.

(ii) The HMO supplemental plan must be premium based and all premiums must relate only to CHAMPUS supplemental coverage.

(iii) The HMO's benefits, above those which are directly reimbursed by CHAMPUS, must be limited predominantly to services not covered by CHAMPUS and CHAMPUS deductible and cost-share amounts.

(iv) The HMO must provide services directly to CHAMPUS beneficiaries through its affiliated providers who, in turn, are reimbursed by CHAMPUS.

(v) The HMO's premium structure must be designed so that no overall reduction in the amount of the beneficiary deductibles or cost-shares will result.
