
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.3 Eligibility.
####### Eligibility under the Transitional Assistance Management Program (TAMP).

(e)(1) A member of the armed forces is eligible for transitional health care if the member is:

(i) A member who is involuntarily separated from active duty.

(ii) A member of a Reserve component who is separated from active duty to which called or ordered in support of a contingency operation if the active duty is active duty for a period of more than 30 consecutive days.

(iii) A member who is separated from active duty for which the member is involuntarily retained under 10 U.S.C. 12305 in support of a contingency operation; or

(iv) A member who is separated from active duty served pursuant to a voluntary agreement of the member to remain on active duty for a period of less than 1 year in support of a contingency operation.

(v) A member who receives a sole survivorship discharge (as defined in section 1174(i) of this title).

(vi) A member who is separated from Active Duty who agrees to become a member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve of a reserve component.

(2) A spouse (as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section except former spouses) and child (as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section) of a member described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is also eligible for TAMP benefits under TRICARE.

(3) TAMP benefits under TRICARE begin on the day after the member is separated from active duty, and, if such separation occurred on or after November 6, 2003, end 180 days after such date. TRICARE benefits available to both the member and eligible family members are generally those available to family members of members of the uniformed services under this Part. However, during TAMP eligibility, a member of a Reserve Component as described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, is entitled to dental care to which a member of the uniformed services on active duty for more than 30 days is entitled. Each branch of service will determine eligibility for its members and eligible family members and provide data to DEERS.
