
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.3 Eligibility.
####### 2

(iv) Marriage of a child, except when the marriage is terminated by death, divorce, or annulment before the child is 21 or 23 if an incapacitated child as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(H)() of this section.

(v) Marriage of a widow or widower, except for the child of the widow or widower who was the stepchild of the deceased member or former member at the time of death. The stepchild continues CHAMPUS eligibility as other classes of dependent children.

(vi) Attainment of entitlement to hospital insurance benefits (Part A) under Medicare except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3), (f)(3)(vii), (f)(3)(viii), and (f)(3)(ix) of this section. (This also applies to individuals living outside the United States where Medicare benefits are not available.)

(vii) Attainment of age 65, except for dependents of active duty members, beneficiaries not entitled to part A of Medicare, beneficiaries entitled to Part A of Medicare who have enrolled in Part B of Medicare, and as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. For those who do not retain CHAMPUS, CHAMPUS eligibility is lost at 12:01 a.m. on the first day of the month in which the beneficiary becomes entitled to Medicare.

(viii) End stage renal disease. All beneficiaries, except dependents of active duty members, lose their CHAMPUS eligibility when Medicare coverage becomes available to a person because of chronic renal disease unless the following conditions have been met. CHAMPUS eligibility will continue if:

(A) The individual is under 65 years old;

(B) The individual became eligible for Medicare under the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 426-1(a);

(C) The individual is enrolled in Part B of Medicare; and

(D) The individual has applied and qualified for continued CHAMPUS eligibility through the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS).

(ix) Individuals with certain disabilities. Each case relating to Medicare eligibility resulting from being disabled requires individual investigation. All beneficiaries except dependents of active duty members lose their CHAMPUS eligibility when Medicare coverage becomes available to a disabled person unless the following conditions have been met. CHAMPUS eligibility will continue if:

(A) The individual is under 65 years old;

(B) The individual became eligible for Medicare under the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 426(b)(2);

(C) The individual is enrolled in Part B of Medicare except that in the case of a retroactive determination of entitlement to Medicare Part A hospital insurance benefits for a person under 65 years of age there is no requirement to enroll in Medicare Part B from the Medicare Part A entitlement date until the issuance of such retroactive determination; and

(D) The individual has applied and qualified for continued CHAMPUS eligibility through the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS).
