
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Physical examinations.

(6)The Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, may require a beneficiary to submit to one or more medical (including psychiatric) examinations to determine the beneficiary's entitlement to benefits for which application has been made or for otherwise authorized medically necessary services and supplies required in the diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury (including maternity and well-baby care). When a medical examination has been requested, CHAMPUS will withhold payment of any pending claims or preauthorization requests on that particular beneficiary. If the beneficiary refuses to agree to the requested medical examination, or unless prevented by a medical reason acceptable to OCHAMPUS, the examination is not performed within 90 days of initial request, all pending claims for services and supplies will be denied. A denial of payments for services or supplies provided before (and related to) the request for a physical examination is not subject to reconsideration. The medical examination and required beneficiary travel related to performing the requested medical examination will be at the expense of CHAMPUS. The medical examination may be performed by a physician in a Uniformed Services medical facility or by an appropriate civilian physician, as determined and selected by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee who is responsible for making such arrangements as are necessary, including necessary travel arrangements.
