
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Nonavailability Statements within a 40-mile catchment area.

(9)Unless required by action of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)) under this paragraph (a)(9), nonavailability statements are not required. If they are required by ASD(HA) action, in some geographic locations, CHAMPUS beneficiaries not enrolled in TRICARE Prime may be required to obtain a nonavailability statement from a military medical treatment facility in order to receive specifically identified health care services from a civilian provider. If the required care cannot be provided through the Uniformed Service facility, the hospital commander, or a designee, will issue a Nonavailability Statement (NAS) (DD Form 1251). Failure to secure such a statement may waive the beneficiary's rights to benefits under CHAMPUS/TRICARE.

(i) With the exception of maternity services, the ASD(HA) may require an NAS prior to TRICARE cost-sharing for additional services from civilian sources if such services are to be provided to a beneficiary who lives within a 40-mile catchment area of an MTF where such services are available and the ASD(HA):

(A) Demonstrates that significant costs would be avoided by performing specific procedures at the affected MTF or MTFs; or

(B) Determines that a specific procedure must be provided at the affected MTF or MTFs to ensure the proficiency levels of the practitioners at the MTF or MTFs; or

(C) Determines that the lack of NAS data would significantly interfere with TRICARE contract administration; and

(D) Provides notification of the ASD(HA)'s intent to require an NAS under this authority to covered beneficiaries who receive care at the MTF or MTFs that will be affected by the decision to require an NAS under this authority; and

(E) Provides at least 60-day notification to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate of the ASD(HA)'s intent to require an NAS under this authority, the reason for the NAS requirement, and the date that an NAS will be required.

(ii) Rules in effect at the time civilian medical care is provided apply. The applicable rules and regulations regarding Nonavailability Statements in effect at the time the civilian care is rendered apply in determining whether a NAS is required.

(iii) The Director, TMA is responsible for issuing the procedural rules and regulations regarding Nonavailability Statements. Such rules and regulations should address:

(A) When and for what services a NAS is required. However, a NAS may not be required for services otherwise available at an MTF located within a 40-mile radius of the beneficiary's residence when another insurance plan or program provides the beneficiary's primary coverage for the services. This requirement for an NAS does not apply to beneficiaries enrolled in TRICARE Prime, even when those beneficiaries use the point-of-service option under ยง 199.17(n)(3) of this part; and

(B) When and how notifications will be made to a beneficiary who is not enrolled in TRICARE Prime as to whether or not he or she resides in a geographic area that requires obtaining a NAS; and

(C) What information relating to claims submissions, including the documentation, if any, that is required to document that a valid NAS was issued. However, when documentation of a NAS is required, then that documentation shall be valid for the adjudication of CHAMPUS claims for all related care otherwise authorized by this part which is received from a civilian source while the beneficiary resided within the Uniformed Service facility catchment area which issued the NAS.

(iv) In the case of any service subject to a NAS requirement under this paragraph (a)(9) and also subject to a preadmission (or other pre-service) authorization requirement under ยง 199.4 or ยง 199.15 of this part, the administrative processes for the NAS and pre-service authorization may be combined.

(10) [Reserved]

(11) Quality and Utilization Review Peer Review Organization program. All benefits under the CHAMPUS program are subject to review under the CHAMPUS Quality and Utilization Review Peer Review Organization program pursuant to Sec 199.15.

(12) [Reserved]
