
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Inpatient, appropriate level required.

(iv)For purposes of inpatient care, the level of institutional care for which Basic Program benefits may be extended must be at the appropriate level required to provide the medically necessary treatment except for patients requiring skilled nursing facility care. For patients for whom skilled nursing facility care is adequate, but is not available in the general locality, benefits may be continued in the higher level care facility. General locality means an area that includes all the skilled nursing facilities within 50 miles of the higher level facility, unless the higher level facility can demonstrate that the skilled nursing facilities are inaccessible to its patients. The decision as to whether a skilled nursing facility is within the higher level facility's general locality, or the skilled nursing facility is inaccessible to the higher level facility's patients shall be a CHAMPUS contractor initial determination for the purposes of appeal under ยง 199.10 of this part. CHAMPUS institutional benefit payments shall be limited to the allowable cost that would have been incurred in the skilled nursing facility, as determined by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee. If it is determined that the institutional care can be provided reasonably in the home setting, no CHAMPUS institutional benefits are payable.
