
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Skilled nursing facility (SNF) services.

(xiv)Covered services in SNFs are the same as provided under Medicare under section 1861(h) and (i) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(h) and (i)) and 42 CFR part 409, subparts C and D, except that the Medicare limitation on the number of days of coverage under section 1812(a) and (b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395d(a) and (b)) and 42 CFR 409.61(b) shall not be applicable under TRICARE. Skilled nursing facility care for each spell of illness shall continue to be provided for as long as medically necessary and appropriate. For a SNF admission to be covered under TRICARE, the beneficiary must have a qualifying hospital stay meaning an inpatient hospital stay of three consecutive days or more, not including the hospital leave day. (The three-day hospital stay requirement is waived for the duration of the President's national emergency for the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak.) The beneficiary must enter the SNF within 30 days of leaving the hospital, or within such time as it would be medically appropriate to begin an active course of treatment, where the individual's condition is such that SNF care would not be medically appropriate within 30 days after discharge from a hospital. The skilled services must be for a medical condition that was either treated during the qualifying three-day hospital stay, or started while the beneficiary was already receiving covered SNF care. Additionally, an individual shall be deemed not to have been discharged from a SNF, if within 30 days after discharge from a SNF, the individual is again admitted to a SNF. Adoption by TRICARE of most Medicare coverage standards does not include Medicare coinsurance amounts. Extended care services furnished to an inpatient of a SNF by such SNF (except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(xiv)(C), (b)(3)(xiv)(F), and (b)(3)(xiv)(G) of this section) include:

(A) Nursing care provided by or under the supervision of a registered professional nurse;

(B) Bed and board in connection with the furnishing of such nursing care;

(C) Physical or occupational therapy or speech-language pathology services furnished by the SNF or by others under arrangements with them by the facility;

(D) Medical social services;

(E) Such drugs, biological, supplies, appliances, and equipment, furnished for use in the SNF, as are ordinarily furnished for the care and treatment of inpatients;

(F) Medical services provided by an intern or resident-in-training of a hospital with which the facility has such an agreement in effect; and

(G) Such other services necessary to the health of the patients as are generally provided by SNFs, or by others under arrangements with them made by the facility.
