
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Criteria for determining medical or psychological necessity.

(i)In determining the medical or psychological necessity of acute inpatient mental health services, the evaluation conducted by the Director, OCHAMPUS (or designee) shall consider the appropriate level of care for the patient, the intensity of services required by the patient, and the availability of that care. The purpose of such acute inpatient care is to stabilize a life-threatening or severely disabling condition within the context of a brief, intensive model of inpatient care in order to permit management of the patient's condition at a less intensive level of care. Such care is appropriate only if the patient requires services of an intensity and nature that are generally recognized as being effectively and safely provided only in an acute inpatient hospital setting. In addition to the criteria set forth in this paragraph (b)(6) of this section, additional evaluation standards, consistent with such criteria, may be adopted by the Director, OCHAMPUS (or designee). Acute inpatient care shall not be considered necessary unless the patient needs to be observed and assessed on a 24-hour basis by skilled nursing staff, and/or requires continued intervention by a multidisciplinary treatment team; and in addition, at least one of the following criteria is determined to be met:

(A) Patient poses a serious risk of harm to self and/or others.

(B) Patient is in need of high dosage, intensive medication or somatic and/or psychological treatment, with potentially serious side effects.

(C) Patient has acute disturbances of mood, behavior, or thinking.
