
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Basis for reimbursement.,1,i.e.,

(D)() Durable equipment may be provided on a rental or purchase basis. Coverage of durable equipment will be based on the price most advantageous to the government taking into consideration the anticipated duration of the medically necessary need for the equipment and current price information for the type of item. The cost analysis must include a comparison of the total price of the item as a monthly rental charge, a lease-purchase price, and a lump-sum purchase price and a provision for the time value of money at the rate determined by the U.S. Department of Treasury. If a beneficiary wishes to obtain an item of durable equipment with deluxe, luxury, immaterial or non-essential features, the beneficiary may agree to accept TRICARE coverage limited to the allowable amount that would have otherwise been authorized for a similar item without those features. In that case, the TRICARE coverage is based upon the allowable amount for the kind of durable equipment normally used to meet the intended purpose (the standard item least costly). The provider shall not hold the beneficiary liable for deluxe, luxury, immaterial, or non- essential features that cannot be considered in determining the TRICARE allowable costs. However, the beneficiary shall be held liable if the provider has a specific agreement in writing from the beneficiary (or his or her representative) accepting liability for the itemized difference in costs of the durable equipment with deluxe, luxury, or immaterial features and the TRICARE allowable costs for an otherwise authorized item without such features.
