
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Drugs and medicines.

(vi)Drugs and medicines that by United States law require a prescription are also referred to as "legend drugs." Legend drugs are covered when prescribed by a physician or other authorized individual professional provider acting within the scope of the provider's license and ordered or prescribed in connection with an otherwise covered condition or treatment, and not otherwise excluded by TRICARE. This includes Rh immune globulin.

(A) Drugs administered by a physician or other authorized individual professional provider as an integral part of a procedure covered under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section (such as chemotherapy) are not covered under this subparagraph inasmuch as the benefit for the institutional services or the professional services in connection with the procedure itself also includes the drug used.

(B) CHAMPUS benefits may not be extended for drugs not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for commercial marketing. Drugs grandfathered by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 may be covered under CHAMPUS as if FDA approved.

(C) Over-the-counter (OTC) drugs (drugs that by United States law do not require a prescription), in general, are not covered. However, insulin is covered for a known diabetic even in states that do not require a prescription for its purchase. In addition, OTC drugs used for smoking cessation are covered when all requirements under the TRICARE smoking cessation program are met as provided in paragraph (e)(30) of this section.

(D) Medically necessary vitamins used for the management of a covered disease or condition pursuant to a prescription, order, or recommendation of a TRICARE authorized provider acting within the provider's scope of license/certificate of practice. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(vi)(D), the term "covered disease or condition" means:
