
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Limited benefits under CHAMPUS.

(i)Benefits under the Basic Program generally are not available for cosmetic, reconstructive, or plastic surgery. However, under certain limited circumstances, benefits for otherwise covered services and supplies may be provided in connection with cosmetic, reconstructive, or plastic surgery as follows:

(A) Correction of a congenital anomaly; or

(B) Restoration of body form following an accidental injury; or

(C) Revision of disfiguring and extensive scars resulting from neoplastic surgery.

(D) Reconstructive breast surgery following a medically necessary mastectomy performed for the treatment of carcinoma, severe fibrocystic disease, other nonmalignant tumors or traumatic injuries.

(E) Penile implants and testicular prostheses for conditions resulting from organic origins (i.e., trauma, radical surgery, disease process, for correction of congenital anomaly, etc.). Also, penile implants for organic impotency.

(F) Generally, benefits are limited to those cosmetic, reconstructive, or plastic surgery procedures performed no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the related accidental injury or surgical trauma occurred, except for authorized postmastectomy breast reconstruction for which there is no time limitation between mastectomy and reconstruction. Also, special consideration for exception will be given to cases involving children who may require a growth period.
