
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Reduction mammoplasties.

(E)Reduction mammoplasties (unless there is medical documentation of intractable pain, not amenable to other forms of treatment, resulting from large, pendulous breasts or unless performed as an integral part of an authorized breast reconstruction procedure under paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section, including reduction of the collateral breast for purposes of ensuring breast symmetry)

(F) Panniculectomy; body sculpture procedures.

(G) Repair of sagging eyelids (without demonstrated and medically documented significant impairment of vision).

(H) Rhinoplasties (without evidence of accidental injury occurring within the previous 6 months that resulted in significant obstruction of breathing).

(I) Chemical peeling for facial wrinkles.

(J) Dermabrasion of the face.

(K) Elective correction of minor dermatological blemishes and marks or minor anatomical anomalies.

(L) Revision of scars resulting from surgery or a disease process, except disfiguring and extensive scars resulting from neoplastic surgery.

(M) Removal of tattoos.

(N) Hair transplants.

(O) Electrolysis.

(P) [Reserved]

(Q)) Penile implant procedure for psychological impotency or as related to sex gender changes, as prohibited by section 1079 of title 10, United States Code.

(R) Insertion of prosthetic testicles as related to sex gender changes, as prohibited by section 1079 of title 10, United States Code.
