
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Care related to non-covered initial surgery or treatment.

(9)(i) Benefits are available for otherwise covered services and supplies required in the treatment of complications resulting from a non-covered incident of treatment (such as nonadjunctive dental care or cosmetic surgery) but only if the later complication represents a separate medical condition such as a systemic infection, cardiac arrest, and acute drug reaction. Benefits may not be extended for any later care or a procedure related to the complication that essentially is similar to the initial non-covered care. Examples of complications similar to the initial episode of care (and thus not covered) would be repair of facial scarring resulting from dermabrasion for acne.

(ii) Benefits are available for otherwise covered services and supplies required in the treatment of complications (unfortunate sequelae) and any necessary follow-on care resulting from a non-covered incident of treatment provided in an MTF, when the initial non-covered service has been authorized by the MTF Commander and the MTF is unable to provide the necessary treatment of the complications or required follow-on care, according to the guidelines adopted by the Director, DHA, or a designee.

(iii) Benefits are available for otherwise covered services and supplies required in the treatment of complications (unfortunate sequelae) and any necessary follow-on care resulting from a non-covered incident of treatment provided in the private sector pursuant to a properly granted waiver under ยง 199.16(f). The Director, DHA, or designee, shall issue guidelines for implementing this provision.
