
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Covered oral surgery.

(iv)Notwithstanding the above limitations on dental care, there are certain oral surgical procedures that are performed by both physicians and dentists, and that are essentially medical rather than dental care. For the purposes of CHAMPUS, the following procedures, whether performed by a physician or dentist, are considered to be in this category and benefits may be extended for otherwise covered services and supplies without preauthorization:

(A) Excision of tumors and cysts of the jaws, cheeks, lips, tongue, and roof and floor of the mouth, when such conditions require a pathological (histological) examination.

(B) Surgical procedures required to correct accidental injuries of the jaws, cheeks, lips, tongue, and roof and floor of the mouth.

(C) Treatment of oral or facial cancer.

(D) Treatment of fractures of facial bones.

(E) External (extra-oral) incision and drainage of cellulitis.

(F) Surgery of accessory sinuses, salivary glands, or ducts.

(G) Reduction of dislocations and the excision of the temporomandibular joints, when surgery is a necessary part of the reduction.

(H) Any oral surgical procedure that falls within the cosmetic, reconstructive, or plastic surgery definition is subject to the limitations and requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
