
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Anesthesia and institutional costs for dental care for children and certain other patients.

(vi)Institutional benefits specified in paragraph (b) of this section may be extended for hospital and in-out surgery settings related to noncovered, nonadjunctive dental care when such outpatient care or inpatient stay is in conjunction with dental treatment for patients with developmental, mental, or physical disabilities or for pediatric patients age 5 or under. For these patients, anesthesia services will be limited to the administration of general anesthesia only. Patients with developmental, mental, or physical disabilities are those patients with conditions that prohibit dental treatment in a safe and effective manner. Therefore, it is medically or psychologically necessary for these patients to require general anesthesia for dental treatment. Patients with physical disabilities include those patients having disabilities as defined in ยง 199.2 as a serious physical disability. Preauthorization by the Director, TRICARE Management Activity, or a designee, is required for such outpatient care or inpatient stays to be covered in the same manner as required for adjunctive dental care described in paragraph (e)(10)(iii) of this section. Regardless of whether or not the preauthorization request for outpatient care or hospital admission is approved and thus qualifies for institutional benefits, the professional service related to the nonadjunctive dental care is not covered, with the exception of coverage for anesthesia services.
