
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### CHAMPUS fiscal intermediary responsibilities.

(iv)CHAMPUS fiscal intermediaries are responsible for implementing utilization control and quality assurance procedures designed to identify possible drug abuse situations. The CHAMPUS fiscal intermediary is directed to screen all drug claims for potential overutilization and irrational prescribing of drugs, and to subject any such cases to extensive review to establish the necessity for the drugs and their appropriateness on the basis of diagnosis or definitive symptoms.

(A) When a possible drug abuse situation is identified, all claims for drugs for that specific beneficiary or provider will be suspended pending the results of a review.

(B) If the review determines that a drug abuse situation does in fact exist, all drug claims held in suspense will be denied.

(C) If the record indicates previously paid drug benefits, the prior claims for that beneficiary or provider will be reopened and the circumstances involved reviewed to determine whether or not drug abuse also existed at the time the earlier claims were adjudicated. If drug abuse is later ascertained, benefit payments made previously will be considered to have been extended in error and the amounts so paid recouped.

(D) Inpatient stays primarily for the purpose of obtaining drugs and any other services and supplies related to drug abuse also are excluded.
