
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### 4

() Counseling services that are required by the beneficiary.

(D) Counseling services provided to the terminally ill individual and the family member or other persons caring for the individual at home. Counseling, including dietary counseling, may be provided both for the purpose of training the individual's family or other care-giver to provide care, and for the purpose of helping the individual and those caring for him or her to adjust to the individual's approaching death. Bereavement counseling, which consists of counseling services provided to the individual's family after the individual's death, is a required hospice service but it is not reimbursable.

(E) Home health aide services furnished by qualified aides and homemaker services. Home health aides may provide personal care services. Aides also may perform household services to maintain a safe and sanitary environment in areas of the home used by the patient. Examples of such services are changing the bed or light cleaning and laundering essential to the comfort and cleanliness of the patient. Aide services must be provided under the general supervision of a registered nurse. Homemaker services may include assistance in personal care, maintenance of a safe and healthy environment, and services to enable the individual to carry out the plan of care. Qualifications for home health aides can be found in 42 CFR 484.36.

(F) Medical appliances and supplies, including drugs and biologicals. Only drugs that are used primarily for the relief of pain and symptom control related to the individual's terminal illness are covered. Appliances may include covered durable medical equipment, as well as other self-help and personal comfort items related to the palliation or management of the patient's condition while he or she is under hospice care. Equipment is provided by the hospice for use in the beneficiary's home while he or she is under hospice care. Medical supplies include those that are part of the written plan of care. Medical appliances and supplies are included within the hospice all-inclusive rates.

(G) Physical therapy, occupational therapy and speech-language pathology services provided for purposes of symptom control or to enable the individual to maintain activities of daily living and basic functional skills.

(H) Short-term inpatient care provided in a Medicare participating hospice inpatient unit, or a Medicare participating hospital, skilled nursing facility (SNF) or, in the case of respite care, a Medicaid-certified nursing facility that additionally meets the special hospice standards regarding staffing and patient areas. Services provided in an inpatient setting must conform to the written plan of care. Inpatient care may be required for procedures necessary for pain control or acute or chronic symptom management. Inpatient care may also be furnished to provide respite for the individual's family or other persons caring for the individual at home. Respite care is the only type of inpatient care that may be provided in a Medicaid-certified nursing facility. The limitations on custodial care and personal comfort items applicable to other CHAMPUS services are not applicable to hospice care.
