
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Pulmonary rehabilitation.

(22)TRICARE benefits are payable for beneficiaries whose conditions are considered appropriate for pulmonary rehabilitation according to guidelines adopted by the Executive Director, TMA, or a designee.

(23) A speech generating device (SGD) as defined in ยง 199.2 of this part is covered as a voice prosthesis. The prosthesis provisions found in paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section apply.

(24) A hearing aid, but only for a dependent of a member of the uniformed services on active duty and only if the dependent has a profound hearing loss as defined in ยง 199.2 of this part. Medically necessary and appropriate services and supplies, including hearing examinations, required in connection with this hearing aid benefit are covered.

(25) Rehabilitation therapy as defined in ยง 199.2 of this part to improve, restore, or maintain function, or to minimize or prevent deterioration of function, of a patient when prescribed by a physician. The rehabilitation therapy must be medically necessary and appropriate medical care, rendered by an authorized provider, necessary to the establishment of a safe and effective maintenance program in connection with a specific medical condition, and must not be custodial care or otherwise excluded from coverage.
