
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### reliable evidence

(C) Unless reliable evidence shows that any medical treatment or procedure has been the subject of well-controlled studies of clinically meaningful endpoints, which have determined its maximum tolerated dose, its toxicity, its safety, and its efficacy as compared with standard means of treatment or diagnosis. (See the definition ofin ยง 199.2 of this part for the procedures used in determining if a medical treatment or procedure is unproven.)

(D) If reliable evidence shows that the consensus among experts regarding the medical treatment or procedure is that further studies or clinical trials are necessary to determine its maximum tolerated doses, its toxicity, its safety, or its effectiveness as compared with the standard means of treatment or diagnosis (see the definition of reliable evidence in ยง 199.2 for the procedures used in determining if a medical treatment or procedure is unproven).

(ii) CHAMPUS benefits for rare diseases are reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the Director, Office of CHAMPUS, or a designee. In reviewing the case, the Director, or a designee, may consult with any or all of the following sources to determine if the proposed therapy is considered safe and effective:

(A) Trials published in refereed medical literature.

(B) Formal technology assessments.

(C) National medical policy organization positions.

(D) National professional associations.

(E) National expert opinion organizations.
