
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.4 Basic program benefits.
####### Criteria for determining that provider knew or could reasonably have been expected to have known that services were excludable.

(5)An institutional or individual provider will be found to have known or been reasonably expected to have known that services were excludable under this subsection under any one of the following circumstances:

(i) The PRO or fiscal intermediary had informed the provider that the services provided were excludable or that similar or reasonably comparable services were excludable.

(ii) The utilization review group or committee for an institutional provider or the beneficiary's attending physician had informed the provider that the services provided were excludable.

(iii) The provider had informed the beneficiary that the services were excludable.

(iv) The provider had received written materials, including notices, manual issuances, bulletins, guides, directives or other materials, providing notification of PRO screening criteria specific to the condition of the beneficiary. Attending physicians who are members of the medical staff of an institutional provider will be found to have also received written materials provided to the institutional provider.

(v) The services that are at issue are the subject of what are generally considered acceptable standards of practice by the local medical community.

(vi) Preadmission authorization was available but not requested, or concurrent review requirements were not followed.
