
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.5 TRICARE Extended Care Health Option (ECHO).
####### ECHO benefit.

(c)Items and services that the Director, TRICARE Management Activity or designee has determined are capable of confirming, arresting, or reducing the severity of the disabling effects of a qualifying condition, includes, but are not limited to:

(1) Diagnostic procedures to establish a qualifying condition or to measure the extent of functional loss resulting from a qualifying condition.

(2) Medical, habilitative, rehabilitative services and supplies, durable equipment and assistive technology (AT) devices that assist in the reduction of the disabling effects of a qualifying condition. Benefits shall be provided in the beneficiary's home or another environment, as appropriate. An AT device may be covered only if it is recommended in a beneficiary's Individual Educational Program (IEP) or, if the beneficiary is not eligible for an IEP, the AT device is an item or educational learning device normally included in an IEP and is preauthorized under ECHO as an integral component of the beneficiary's individual comprehensive health care services plan (including rehabilitation) as prescribed by a TRICARE authorized provider.

(i) An AT device may be covered under ECHO only if it is not otherwise covered by TRICARE as durable equipment, a prosthetic, augmentation communication device, or other benefits under ยง 199.4.

(ii) An AT device may include an educational learning device directly related to the beneficiary's qualifying condition when recommended by an IEP and not otherwise provided by State or local government programs. If an individual is not eligible for an IEP, an educational learning device normally included in the IEP may be authorized as if directly related to the beneficiary's qualifying condition and prescribed by a TRICARE authorized provider as part of the beneficiary's individual comprehensive health care services plan.

(iii) Electronic learning devices may include the hardware and software as appropriate. The Director, DHA, shall determine the types and (or) platforms of electronic devices and the replacement lifecycle of the hardware and its supporting software. All upgrades or replacements shall require a recommendation from the individual's IEP or the individual's comprehensive health care services plan.

(iv) Duplicative or redundant hardware platforms are not authorized.

(v) AT devices damaged through improper use of the device may not be replaced until the device would next be eligible for a lifecycle replacement.

(vi) AT devices do not include equipment or devices whose primary purpose is to assist the individual to engage in sports or recreational activities.

(3) Training that teaches the use of assistive technology devices or to acquire skills that are necessary for the management of the qualifying condition. Such training is also authorized for the beneficiary's immediate family. Vocational training, in the beneficiary's home or a facility providing such, is also allowed.

(4) Special education as provided by the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act and defined at 34 CFR 300.26 and that is specifically designed to accommodate the disabling effects of the qualifying condition.

(5) Institutional care within a state, as defined in ยง 199.2, in private nonprofit, public, and state institutions and facilities, when the severity of the qualifying condition requires protective custody or training in a residential environment. For the purpose of this section protective custody means residential care that is necessary when the severity of the qualifying condition is such that the safety and well-being of the beneficiary or those who come into contact with the beneficiary may be in jeopardy without such care.

(6) Transportation of an ECHO beneficiary receiving benefits under paragraph (c)(5), and a medical attendant when necessary to assure the beneficiary's safety, to or from a facility or institution to receive authorized ECHO services or items.
