
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.6 TRICARE - authorized providers.
####### Dual compensation/Conflict of interest.

(3)Title 5, United States Code, section 5536 prohibits medical personnel who are active duty Uniformed Service members or civilian employees of the Government from receiving additional Government compensation above their normal pay and allowances for medical care furnished. In addition, Uniformed Service members and civilian employees of the Government are generally prohibited by law and agency regulations and policies from participating in apparent or actual conflict of interest situations in which a potential for personal gain exists or in which there is an appearance of impropriety or incompatibility with the performance of their official duties or responsibilities. The Departments of Defense, Health and Human Services, and Transportation have a responsibility, when disbursing appropriated funds in the payment of CHAMPUS benefits, to ensure that the laws and regulations are not violated. Therefore, active duty Uniformed Service members (including a reserve member while on active duty and civilian employees of the United States Government shall not be authorized to be CHAMPUS providers. While individual employees of the Government may be able to demonstrate that the furnishing of care to CHAMPUS beneficiaries may not be incompatible with their official duties and responsibilities, the processing of millions of CHAMPUS claims each year does not enable Program administrators to efficiently review the status of the provider on each claim to ensure that no conflict of interest or dual compensation situation exists. The problem is further complicated given the numerous interagency agreements (for example, resource sharing arrangements between the Department of Defense and the Veterans Administration in the provision of health care) and other unique arrangements which exist at individual treatment facilities around the country. While an individual provider may be prevented from being an authorized CHAMPUS provider even though no conflict of interest or dual compensation situation exists, it is essential for CHAMPUS to have an easily administered, uniform rule which will ensure compliance with the existing laws and regulations. Therefore, a provider who is an active duty Uniformed Service member or civilian employee of the Government shall not be an authorized CHAMPUS provider. In addition, a provider shall certify on each CHAMPUS claim that he/she is not an active duty Uniformed Service member or civilian employee of the Government.

(4) [Reserved]
