
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.6 TRICARE - authorized providers.
####### Skilled nursing facility.

(vi)A skilled nursing facility is an institution (or a distinct part of an institution) that is engaged primarily in providing to inpatients medically necessary skilled nursing care, which is other than a nursing home or intermediate facility, and which:

(A) Has policies that are developed with the advice of (and with provisions for review on a periodic basis by) a group of professionals, including one or more physicians and one or more registered nurses, to govern the skilled nursing care and related medical services it provides.

(B) Has a physician, a registered nurse, or a medical staff responsible for the execution of such policies.

(C) Has a requirement that the medical care of each patient must be under the supervision of a physician, and provides for having a physician available to furnish necessary medical care in case of an emergency.

(D) Maintains clinical records on all patients.

(E) Provides 24-hour skilled nursing service that is sufficient to meet nursing needs in accordance with the policies developed as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(A) of this section, and has at least one registered professional nurse employed full-time.

(F) Provides appropriate methods and procedures for the dispensing and administering of drugs and biologicals.

(G) Has in effect a utilization review plan that is operational and functioning.

(H) In the case of an institution in a state in which state or applicable local law provides for the licensing of this type facility, the institution:
