
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 37 - TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS
###### Appendix D to Part 37 - What Common National Policy Requirements May Apply and Need To Be Included in TIAs?
####### e.g.

Whether your TIA is a cooperative agreement or another type of assistance transaction, as discussed in Appendix B to this part, the terms and conditions of the agreement must provide for recipients' compliance with applicable Federal statutes and regulations. This appendix lists some of the more common requirements to aid you in identifying ones that apply to your TIA. The list is not intended to be all-inclusive, however, and you may need to consult legal counsel to verify whether there are others that apply in your situation (, due to a provision in the appropriations act for the specific funds that you are using or due to a statute or rule that applies to a particular program or type of activity).

One requirement that applies to all TIAs currently requires you to obtain a certification at the time of proposal. That requirement is in a Governmentwide common rule about lobbying prohibitions, which is implemented by the DoD at 32 CFR part 28. The prohibitions apply to all financial assistance. Appendix A to 32 CFR part 22 includes a sample provision that you may use, to have proposers incorporate the certification by reference into their proposals.

DoD policy is to use a certification, as described in the preceding paragraph, only for a national policy requirement that specifically requires one. The usual approach to communicating other national policy requirements to recipients is to incorporate them as award terms or conditions, or assurances. Part 1122 of 2 CFR lists national policy requirements that commonly apply to DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It also has standard wording of general terms and conditions to incorporate the requirements in award documents. Of those requirements, the following six apply to all TIAs. (Note that TIAs must generally use the standard wording in 2 CFR part 1122 for the terms and conditions of these six requirements, but not the standard format.)

1. Requirements concerning debarment and suspension in the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by the DoD at 2 CFR part 1125. The requirements apply to all nonprocurement transactions.

2. Requirements concerning drug-free workplace in the Governmentwide common rule that the DoD has codified at 32 CFR part 26. The requirements apply to all financial assistance.
