
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter C - DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations
##### PART 37 - TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS
###### Appendix D to Part 37 - What Common National Policy Requirements May Apply and Need To Be Included in TIAs?
####### et seq.

4. Prohibitions on discrimination on the basis of age, in the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101,). They apply to all financial assistance and require flow down to subrecipients, as implemented by Department of Health and Human Services regulations at 45 CFR part 90.

5. Prohibitions on discrimination on the basis of handicap, in section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as implemented by Department of Justice regulations at 28 CFR part 41 and DoD regulations at 32 CFR part 56. They apply to all financial assistance recipients and require flow down to subrecipients.

6. Preferences for use of U.S.-flag air carriers in the International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974 (49 U.S.C. 40118), commonly referred to as the "Fly America Act," and implementing regulations at 41 CFR 301-10.131 through 301-10.143, which apply to uses of U.S. Government funds.

Additional national policy requirements may apply in certain circumstances, as follows:

1. If construction work is to be done under a TIA or its subawards, it is subject to the prohibitions in Executive Order 11246, as amended, on discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin. You must include the clause provided in 41 CFR 60-1.4(b) in any "federally assisted construction contract" (as defined in 41 CFR 60-1.3) under this award unless provisions of 41 CFR part 60-1 exempt the contract from the requirement. The clause will require the contractor to comply with equal opportunity requirements in 41 CFR chapter 60.

2. If the research involves human subjects or animals, it is subject to the applicable requirements identified in appendix C of 2 CFR part 1122.

3. If the research involves actions that may affect the human environment, it is subject to the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act in paragraph A.4.a of NP Article II, which is found in appendix B of 2 CFR part 1122. It also may be subject to one or more of the other requirements in paragraphs A.4.b through A.4.f, A.5, and A.6 of NP Article II, which concern flood-prone areas, coastal zones, coastal barriers, wild and scenic rivers, underground sources of drinking water, endangered species, and marine mammal protection.

4. If the project may impact any property listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, it is subject to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (54 U.S.C. 306108) as specified in paragraph 11.a of NP Article IV, which is found in appendix D of 2 CFR part 1122.

5. If the project has potential under this award for irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data, it is subject to the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (54 U.S.C. Chapter 3125) as specified in paragraph 11.b of NP Article IV, which is found in appendix D of 2 CFR part 1122.
