
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.6 TRICARE - authorized providers.
####### Conditions of authorization,Professional license requirement.

(2)-(i)The individual must be currently licensed to render professional health care services in each state in which the individual renders services to CHAMPUS beneficiaries. Such license is required when a specific state provides, but does not require, license for a specific category of individual professional provider. The license must be at full clinical practice level to meet this requirement. A temporary license at the full clinical practice level is acceptable. During the period of national emergency for the global coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, a license is not required in the United States for each state in which the provider practices, so long as the provider holds an equivalent license in another state, the state in which the provider is practicing permits such practice under its interstate licensing requirements or the state licensing requirements have been preempted by Federal law, and the provider is not affirmatively barred or restricted from practicing in any state. During the COVID-19 pandemic, providers overseas are not required to be licensed in each nation in which the provider operates, so long as the provider holds an equivalent license in another nation, the host nation permits such practice under its licensing requirements, and the provider is not on the Department of Health and Human Services sanction list.
