
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 44 - SCREENING THE READY RESERVE
###### Appendix A to Part 44 - Guidance for Employers of Ready Reservists

(a) Employers of Ready Reserve members. Prior to any mobilization action, employers of Ready Reserve members are encouraged to adopt personnel management procedures designed to prevent conflicts between the emergency manpower needs of civilian and military activities that may occur during a military mobilization requiring Ready Reserve participation. Employers are encouraged to assess the internal capabilities of their own positions and the organic capacity to sustain emergency manpower needs prior to a military mobilization which can produce an accurate listing of what they consider key positions to their organization. Employers, via the head of or suitable designee within an agency, company, local government, or organization, are encouraged to use the below key position guidelines as a reference for considering designations and, when applicable, petitioning the respective Military Service if a Ready Reserve member fills a key position. Nothing in this part shall reduce, limit, or eliminate in any manner any right or benefit provided by USERRA. Employers must ensure that key position determinations are not undertaken in a manner that would violate USERRA.

(b) Key position guidelines:

(1) Designate individual positions that are essential in nature to, and within, the organization as "key positions," and require they will not be filled by Ready Reserve members to prevent such positions from being vacated during a mobilization.

(2) Consider the following questions to determine whether an individual position should be designated as a key position:

(i) Can the position be filled in a reasonable time after mobilization? (Note that this factor must not be the sole factor relied on in making a key position determination.)

(ii) Does the position require technical or managerial skills that are possessed uniquely by the incumbent employee?

(iii) Is the position associated directly with defense mobilization?

(iv) Does the position include a mobilization or relocation assignment in a federal agency that has emergency functions, as designated by E.O. 12656?

(v) Is the position directly associated with industrial or manpower mobilization, as designated in E.O.s 12656 and 12919?

(vi) Are there other factors related to the national defense, health, or safety that will make the incumbent of the position unavailable for mobilization? These factors should not be applied more broadly than intended as to encompass an entire class of workers, nor misapplied to conflict with USERRA, its implementing regulations at 20 CFR part 1002, or other federal statutes and regulations.

(3) Conduct an annual review of key positions and employees as noted herein.

(4) Petition to the respective Military Service any findings for adjudication of specific Ready Reserve members filling critical positions, as needed.

(5) When employers consider a Ready Reserve member as filling a key position within their organization, they should petition the applicable Reserve personnel center for discussion and adjudication. An employer may not take any employment action with regard to the position for which approval is sought based upon an employee or potential employee's military service until such time as the petition for approval has been approved by the relevant Service Secretary. Below is the list of Reserve personnel centers to which petitions shall be forwarded:
