
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 45 - MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
###### ยง 45.1 Purpose of this part.
####### Relationship to military and veterans' compensation programs.,e.g.,

(b)Federal law provides a comprehensive system of compensation for military members and their families in cases of death or disability incurred in military service. This system applies to all causes of death or disability incurred in service, whether due to combat injuries, training mishaps, motor vehicle accidents, naturally occurring illnesses, household events, with limited exceptions (when the member is absent without leave or the injury is due to the member's intentional misconduct or willful negligence). This comprehensive compensation system applies to cases of personal injury or death caused by medical malpractice incurred in service as it does to all other causes. This part provides for the possibility of separate compensation in certain cases of medical malpractice but in no other type of case. A medical malpractice claim under this part will have no effect on any other compensation the member or family is entitled to under the comprehensive compensation system applicable to all members. However, a claimant under this part does not receive duplicate compensation for the same harm. Thus, with some limited exceptions, a potential malpractice damages award under this part is reduced or offset by the total value of the compensation the claimant is expected to receive under the comprehensive compensation system, whether or not the claimant ultimately receives such compensation, and the ultimate amount of a settlement under this part will be the amount, if any, that a potential malpractice damages award determined under the terms and conditions of this part exceeds the value of all the compensation and benefits the claimant is otherwise expected to receive from DoD or the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
