
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.6 TRICARE - authorized providers.
####### 2

() Grace period for therapists or counselors in states where licensure/certification is optional. CHAMPUS is providing a grace period for those therapists or counselors who did not obtain optional licensure/certification in their jurisdiction, not realizing it was a CHAMPUS requirement for authorization. The exemption by state law for pastoral counselors may have misled this group into thinking licensure was not required. The same situation may have occurred with the other therapist or counselor categories where licensure was either not mandated by the state or was provided under a more general category such as "professional counselors." This grace period pertains only to the licensure/certification requirement, applies only to therapists or counselors who are already approved as of October 29, 1990, and only in those areas where the licensure/certification is optional. Any therapist or counselor who is not licensed/certified in the state in which he/she is practicing by August 1, 1991, will be terminated under the provisions of ยง 199.9. This grace period does not change any of the other existing requirements which remain in effect. During this grace period, membership or proof of eligibility for full clinical membership in a recognized professional association is required for those therapists or counselors who are not licensed or certified by the state. The following organizations are recognized for therapists or counselors at the level indicated: Full clinical member of the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy; membership at the fellow or diplomate level of the American Association of Pastoral Counselors; and membership in the National Academy of Certified Clinical Mental Health Counselors. Acceptable proof of eligibility for membership is a letter from the appropriate certifying organization. This opportunity for delayed certification/licensure is limited to the counselor or therapist category only as the language in all of the other provider categories has been consistent and unmodified from the time each of the other provider categories were added. The grace period does not apply in those states where licensure is mandatory.
