
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 45 - MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
###### ยง 45.2 Claims payable and not payable in general.
####### Certain other claims not payable.

(f)The generally accepted legal standards under FTCA that are required to be reflected in the adjudication of claims under this Part include certain exclusions that are part of FTCA law.

(1) The due care and discretionary function exceptions apply to claims under this part.

(i) The due care and discretionary function exceptions, 28 U.S.C. 2680(a), bar any claim based upon an act or omission of a DoD health care provider, exercising due care, in the execution of a statute or regulation or based upon the exercise or performance of any discretionary function or duty on the part of DoD or a DoD health care provider.

(ii) The due care exception applies to any DoD health care provider's act, if carried out with due care, or omission, if omitted with due care, in the execution of a statute or regulation. The due care exception applies whether or not the statute or regulation is valid.

(iii) The discretionary function exception applies to the exercise or performance or the failure to exercise or perform any discretionary function. The discretionary function exception applies whether or not the discretion involved was abused. It applies to any DoD health care provider's act or omission that is a permissible exercise of discretion under the applicable statutes, regulations, or directive and, by its nature, is susceptible to policy analysis. The discretionary function exception applies to DoD policy decisions regarding clinical practice, patient triage, force health protection, medical readiness, health promotion, disease prevention, medical screening, health assessment, resource management, hiring and retaining employees, selection of contractors, military standards, fitness for duty, duty limitations, and health information management, among other matters affecting or involving the provision of health care services.

(2) The quarantine exception applies to claims under this part. This exception, consistent with 28 U.S.C. 2680(f), bars any claim for damages caused by the imposition or establishment of a quarantine by any agency of the U.S. Government.

(3) The combatant activities exception applies to claims under this part. This exception, consistent with 28 U.S.C. 2680(j), bars any claim arising out of the combatant activities of the military or naval forces, or the Coast Guard, in time of war.

(4) The FTCA's exclusions under 28 U.S.C. 2674 of interest prior to judgment and punitive damages apply to any claim under this part.

(5) Claims based on intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, other intentional torts, wrongful death/life, strict liability, products liability, informed consent, negligent credentialing, or joint and severable liability theories are not payable under this part.

(6) Breach of medical confidentiality is not actionable under this part.
