
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.6 TRICARE - authorized providers.
####### Corporate services providers,General.

(f)-(1)(i) This corporate services provider class is established to accommodate individuals who would meet the criteria for status as a CHAMPUS authorized individual professional provider as established by paragraph (c) of this section but for the fact that they are employed directly or contractually by a corporation or foundation that provides principally professional services which are within the scope of the CHAMPUS benefit. With authorization of freestanding end stage renal disease (ESRD) facilities as TRICARE institutional providers under paragraph (b)(4)(xxi) of this section, corporate service provider status will not be authorized for the provision of ESRD services.

(ii) Payment for otherwise allowable services may be made to a CHAMPUS-authorized corporate services provider subject to the applicable requirements, exclusions and limitations of this part.

(iii) The Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, may create discrete types within any allowable category of provider established by this paragraph (f) to improve the efficiency of CHAMPUS management.

(iv) The Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, may require, as a condition of authorization, that a specific category or type of provider established by this paragraph (f):

(A) Maintain certain accreditation in addition to or in lieu of the requirement of paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section;

(B) Cooperate fully with a designated utilization and clinical quality management organization which has a contract with the Department of Defense for the geographic area in which the provider does business;

(C) Render services for which direct or indirect payment is expected to be made by CHAMPUS only after obtaining CHAMPUS written authorization; and

(D) Maintain Medicare approval for payment when the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, determines that a category, or type, of provider established by this paragraph (f) is substantially comparable to a provider or supplier for which Medicare has regulatory conditions of participation or conditions of coverage.

(v) Otherwise allowable services may be rendered at the authorized corporate services provider's place of business, or in the beneficiary's home under such circumstances as the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, determines to be necessary for the efficient delivery of such in-home services.

(vi) The Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, may limit the term of a participation agreement for any category or type of provider established by this paragraph (f).

(vii) Corporate services providers shall be assigned to only one of the following allowable categories based upon the predominate type of procedure rendered by the organization;

(A) Medical treatment procedures;

(B) Surgical treatment procedures;

(C) Maternity management procedures;

(D) Rehabilitation and/or habilitation procedures; or

(E) Diagnostic technical procedures.

(viii) The Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, shall determine the appropriate procedural category of a qualified organization and may change the category based upon the provider's CHAMPUS claim characteristics. The category determination of the Director, OCHAMPUS, designee, is conclusive and may not be appealed.
