
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.7 Claims submission, review, and payment.
####### Medical records/medical documentation.

(3)Medical records are of vital importance in the care and treatment of the patient. Medical records serve as a basis for planning of patient care and for the ongoing evaluation of the patient's treatment and progress. Accurate and timely completion of orders, notes, etc., enable different members of a health care team and subsequent health care providers to have access to relevant data concerning the patient. Appropriate medical records must be maintained in order to accommodate utilization review and to substantiate that billed services were actually rendered.

(i) All care rendered and billed must be appropriately documented in writing. Failure to document the care billed will result in the claim or specific services on the claim being denied CHAMPUS cost-sharing.

(ii) A pattern of failure to adequately document medical care will result in episodes of care being denied CHAMPUS cost-sharing.

(iii) Cursory notes of a generalized nature that do not identify the specific treatment and the patient's response to the treatment are not acceptable.

(iv) The documentation of medical records must be legible and prepared as soon as possible after the care is rendered. Entries should be made when the treatment described is given or the observations to be documented are made. The following are documentation requirements and specific time frames for entry into the medical records:

(A) General requirements for acute medical/surgical services:
