
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### § 199.7 Claims submission, review, and payment.
####### Right to additional information.

(5)(i) As a condition precedent to the cost-sharing of benefits under this part or pursuant to a review or audit, whether the review or audit is prospective, concurrent, or retroactive, OCHAMPUS or CHAMPUS contractors may request, and shall be entitled to receive, information from a physician or hospital or other person, institution, or organization (including a local, state, or Federal Government agency) providing services or supplies to the beneficiary for whom claims or requests for approval for benefits are submitted. Such information and records may relate to the attendance, testing, monitoring, examination, diagnosis, treatment, or services and supplies furnished to a beneficiary and, as such, shall be necessary for the accurate and efficient administration of CHAMPUS benefits. This may include requests for copies of all medical records or documentation related to the episode of care. In addition, before a determination on a request for preauthorization or claim of benefits is made, a beneficiary, or sponsor, shall provide additional information relevant to the requested determination, when necessary. The recipient of such information shall hold such records confidential except when:

(A) Disclosure of such information is authorized specifically by the beneficiary;

(B) Disclosure is necessary to permit authorized governmental officials to investigate and prosecute criminal actions; or

(C) Disclosure is authorized or required specifically under the terms of DoD Directive 5400.7 and 5400.11, the Freedom of Information Act, and the Privacy Act (refer to paragraph (m) of § 199.1 of this part).

(ii) For the purposes of determining the applicability of and implementing the provisions of §§ 199.8 and 199.9, or any provision of similar purpose of any other medical benefits coverage or entitlement, OCHAMPUS or CHAMPUS fiscal intermediaries, without consent or notice to any beneficiary or sponsor, may release to or obtain from any insurance company or other organization, governmental agency, provider, or person, any information with respect to any beneficiary when such release constitutes a routine use duly published in thein accordance with the Privacy Act.

(iii) Before a beneficiary's claim of benefits is adjudicated, the beneficiary or the provider(s) must furnish to CHAMPUS that information which is necessary to make the benefit determination. Failure to provide the requested information will result in denial of the claim. A beneficiary, by submitting a CHAMPUS claim(s) (either a participating or nonparticipating claim), is deemed to have given consent to the release of any and all medical records or documentation pertaining to the claims and the episode of care.
