
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.7 Claims submission, review, and payment.
####### Continuing care.

(1)Except for claims subject to the CHAMPUS DRG-based payment system, whenever medical services and supplies are being rendered on a continuing basis, an appropriate claim or claims should be submitted every 30 days (monthly) whether submitted directly by the beneficiary or sponsor or by the provider on behalf of the beneficiary. Such claims may be submitted more frequently if the beneficiary or provider so elects. The Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, also may require more frequent claims submission based on dollars. Examples of care that may be rendered on a continuing basis are outpatient physical therapy, private duty (special) nursing, or inpatient stays. For claims subject to the CHAMPUS DRG-based payment system, claims may be submitted only after the beneficiary has been discharged or transferred from the hospital.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Claims involving the services of marriage and family counselors, pastoral counselors, and supervised mental health counselors. CHAMPUS requires that marriage and family counselors, pastoral counselors, and supervised mental health counselors make a written report to the referring physician concerning the CHAMPUS beneficiary's progress. Therefore, each claim for reimbursement for services of marriage and family counselors, pastoral counselors, and supervised mental health counselors must include certification to the effect that a written communication has been made or will be made to the referring physician at the end of treatment, or more frequently, as required by the referring physician.
