
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.7 Claims submission, review, and payment.
####### Extension of the Active Duty Dependents Dental Plan to areas outside the United States.

(i)The Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) (ASD(HA) may, under the authority of 10 U.S.C. 1076a(h), extend the Active Duty Dependents Dental Plan to areas other than those areas specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for the eligible beneficiaries of members of the Uniformed Services. In extending the program outside the Continental United States, the ASD(HA), or designee, is authorized to establish program elements, methods of administration and payment rates and procedures to providers that are different from those in effect under this section in the Continental United States to the extent the ASD(HA), or designee, determines necessary for the effective and efficient operation of the plan outside the Continental United States. This includes provisions for preauthorization of care if the needed services are not available in a Uniformed Service overseas dental treatment facility and payment by the Department of certain cost-shares and other portions of a provider's billed charges. Other differences may occur based on limitations in the availability and capabilities of the Uniformed Services overseas dental treatment facility and a particular nation's civilian sector providers in certain areas. Otherwise, rules pertaining to services covered under the plan and quality of care standards for providers shall be comparable to those in effect under this section in the Continental United States and available military guidelines. In addition, all provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1076a shall remain in effect.
