
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### General.

(a)(1) This section sets forth provisions for invoking administrative remedies under CHAMPUS in situations involving fraud, abuse, or conflict of interest. The remedies impact institutional providers, professional providers, and beneficiaries (including parents, guardians, or other representatives of beneficiaries), and cover situations involving criminal fraud, civil fraud, administrative determinations of conflicts of interest or dual compensation, and administrative determinations of fraud or abuse. The administrative actions, remedies, and procedures may differ based upon whether the initial findings were made by a court of law, another agency, or the Director, OCHAMPUS (or designee).

(2) This section also sets forth provisions for invoking administrative remedies in situations requiring administrative action to enforce provisions of law, regulation, and policy in the administration of CHAMPUS and to ensure quality of care for CHAMPUS beneficiaries. Examples of such situations may include a case in which it is discovered that a provider fails to meet requirements under this part to be an authorized CHAMPUS provider; a case in which the provider ceases to be qualified as a CHAMPUS provider because of suspension or revocation of the provider's license by a local licensing authority; or a case in which a provider meets the minimum requirements under this part but, nonetheless, it is determined that it is in the best interest of the CHAMPUS or CHAMPUS beneficiaries that the provider should not be an authorized CHAMPUS provider.

(3) The administrative remedies set forth in this section are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedies or sanctions authorized by law or regulation. For example, administrative action under this section may be taken in a particular case even if the same case will be or has been processed under the administrative procedures established by the Department of Defense to implement the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act.

(4) Providers seeking payment from the Federal Government through programs such as CHAMPUS have a duty to familiarize themselves with, and comply with, the program requirements.

(5) CHAMPUS contractors and peer review organizations have a responsibility to apply provisions of this regulation in the discharge of their duties, and to report all known situations involving fraud, abuse, or conflict of interest. Failure to report known situations involving fraud, abuse, or conflict of interest will result in the withholding of administrative payments or other contractual remedies as determined by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee.
