
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Abuse.

(b)The term "abuse" generally describes incidents and practices which may directly or indirectly cause financial loss to the Government under CHAMPUS or to CHAMPUS beneficiaries. For the definition of abuse, see ยง 199.2 of this part. The type of abuse to which CHAMPUS is most vulnerable is the CHAMPUS claim involving the overutilization of medical and health care services. To avoid abuse situations, providers have certain obligations to provide services and supplies under CHAMPUS which are: Furnished at the appropriate level and only when and to the extent medically necessary as determined under the provisions of this part; of a quality that meets professionally recognized standards of health care; and, supported by adequate medical documentation as may reasonably be required under this part by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, to evidence the medical necessity and quality of services furnished, as well as the appropriateness of the level of care. A provider's failure to comply with these obligations can result in sanctions being imposed by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, under this section. Even when administrative remedies are not initiated under this section, abuse situations under CHAMPUS are a sufficient basis for denying all or any part of CHAMPUS cost-sharing of individual claims. The types of abuse or possible abuse situations under CHAMPUS include, but are not limited, to the following:

(1) A pattern of waiver of beneficiary (patient) cost-share or deductible.

(2) Improper billing practices. Examples include, charging CHAMPUS beneficiaries rates for services and supplies that are in excess of those charges routinely charged by the provider to the general public, commercial health insurance carriers, or other federal health benefit entitlement programs for the same or similar services. (This includes dual fee schedules-one for CHAMPUS beneficiaries and one for other patients or third-party payers. This also includes billing other third-party payers the same as CHAMPUS is billed but accepting less than the billed amount as reimbursement. However, a formal discount arrangement such as through a preferred provider organization, may not necessarily constitute an improper billing practice.)

(3) A pattern of claims for services which are not medically necessary or, if medically necessary, not to the extent rendered. For example, a battery of diagnostic tests are given when, based on the diagnosis, fewer tests were needed.

(4) Care of inferior quality. For example, consistently furnishing medical or mental health services that do not meet accepted standards of care.

(5) Failure to maintain adequate medical or financial records.

(6) Refusal to furnish or allow the Government (for example, OCHAMPUS) or Government contractors access to records related to CHAMPUS claims.

(7) Billing substantially in excess of customary or reasonable charges unless it is determined by OCHAMPUS that the excess charges are justified by unusual circumstances or medical complications requiring additional time, effort, or expense in localities when it is accepted medical practice to make an extra charge in such cases.

(8) Unauthorized use of the term "Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS)" in private business. While the use of the term "CHAMPUS" is not prohibited by federal statute, misrepresentation or deception by use of the term "CHAMPUS" to imply an official connection with the Government or to defraud CHAMPUS beneficiaries may be a violation of federal statute. Regardless of whether the actual use of the term "CHAMPUS" may be actionable under federal statute, the unauthorized or deceptive use of the term "CHAMPUS" in private business will be considered abuse for purposes of this Section.
