
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Fraud.

(c)For the definition of fraud, see ยง 199.2 of this part. Examples of situations which, for the purpose of this part, are presumed to be fraud include, but are not limited to:

(1) Submitting CHAMPUS claims (including billings by providers when the claim is submitted by the beneficiary) for services, supplies, or equipment not furnished to, or used by, CHAMPUS beneficiaries. For example, billing or claiming services when the provider was on call (other than an authorized standby charge) and did not provide any specific medical care to the beneficiary; providing services to an ineligible person and billing or submitting a claim for the services in the name of an eligible CHAMPUS beneficiary; billing or submitting a CHAMPUS claim for an office visit for a missed appointment; or billing or submitting a CHAMPUS claim for individual psychotherapy when a medical visit was the only service provided.

(2) Billing or submitting a CHAMPUS claim for costs for noncovered or nonchargeable services, supplies, or equipment disguised as covered items. Some examples are: (i) Billings or CHAMPUS claims for services which would be covered except for the frequency or duration of the services, such as billing or submitting a claim for two one-hour psychotherapy sessions furnished on separate days when the actual service furnished was a two-hour therapy session on a single day, (ii) spreading the billing or claims for services over a time period that reduces the apparent frequency to a level that may be cost-shared by CHAMPUS, (iii) charging to CHAMPUS, directly or indirectly, costs not incurred or not reasonably allowable to the services billed or claimed under CHAMPUS, for example, costs attributable to nonprogram activities, other enterprises, or the personal expenses of principals, or (iv) billing or submitting claim on a fee-for-service basis when in fact a personal service to a specific patient was not performed and the service rendered is part of the overall management of, for example, the laboratory or x-ray department.

(3) Breach of a provider participation agreement which results in the beneficiary (including parent, guardian, or other representative) being billed for amounts which exceed the CHAMPUS-determined allowable charge or cost.

(4) Billings or CHAMPUS claims for supplies or equipment which are clearly unsuitable for the patient's needs or are so lacking in quality or sufficiency for the purpose as to be virtually worthless.

(5) Billings or CHAMPUS claims which involve flagrant and persistent overutilization of services without proper regard for results, the patient's ailments, condition, medical needs, or the physician's orders.

(6) Misrepresentations of dates, frequency, duration, or description of services rendered, or of the identity of the recipient of the services or the individual who rendered the services.

(7) Submitting falsified or altered CHAMPUS claims or medical or mental health patient records which misrepresent the type, frequency, or duration of services or supplies or misrepresent the name(s) of the individual(s) who provided the services or supplies.

(8) Duplicate billings or CHAMPUS claims. This includes billing or submitting CHAMPUS claims more than once for the same services, billing or submitting claims both to CHAMPUS and the beneficiary for the same services, or billing or submitting claims both to CHAMPUS and other third-parties (such as other health insurance or government agencies) for the same services, without making full disclosure of material facts or immediate, voluntary repayment or notification to CHAMPUS upon receipt of payments which combined exceed the CHAMPUS-determined allowable charge of the services involved.

(9) Misrepresentation by a provider of his or her credentials or concealing information or business practices which bear on the provider's qualifications for authorized CHAMPUS provider status. For example, a provider representing that he or she has a qualifying doctorate in clinical psychology when the degree is not from a regionally accredited university.

(10) Reciprocal billing. Billing or claiming services which were furnished by another provider or furnished by the billing provider in a capacity other than as billed or claimed. For example, practices such as the following: (i) One provider performing services for another provider and the latter bills as though he had actually performed the services (e.g., a weekend fill-in); (ii) providing service as an institutional employee and billing as a professional provider for the services; (iii) billing for professional services when the services were provided by another individual who was an institutional employee; (iv) billing for professional services at a higher provider profile than would be paid for the person actually furnishing the services, (for example, bills reflecting that an M.D. or Ph.D. performed the services when services were actually furnished by a licensed social worker, psychiatric nurse, or marriage and family counselor); or (v) an authorized provider billing for services which were actually furnished by an unauthorized or sanctioned provider.

(11) Submitting CHAMPUS claims at a rate higher than a rate established between CHAMPUS and the provider, if such a rate has been established. For example, billing or claiming a rate in excess of the provider's most favored rate limitation specified in a residential treatment center agreement.

(12) Arrangements by providers with employees, independent contractors, suppliers, or others which appear to be designed primarily to overcharge the CHAMPUS through various means (such as commissions, fee-splitting, and kickbacks) used to divert or conceal improper or unnecessary costs or profits.

(13) Agreements or arrangements between the supplier and recipient (recipient could be either a provider or beneficiary, including the parent, guardian, or other representative of the beneficiary) that result in billings or claims which include unnecessary costs or charges to CHAMPUS.
