
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Conflict of Interest.

(d)(1) Conflict of interest includes any situation where an active duty member of the Uniformed Services (including a reserve member while on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training) or civilian employee of the United States Government, through an official federal position has the apparent or actual opportunity to exert, directly or indirectly, any influence on the referral of CHAMPUS beneficiaries to himself/herself or others with some potential for personal gain or the appearance of impropriety. Although individuals under contract to the Uniformed Services are not considered "employees," such individuals are subject to conflict of interest provisions by express terms of their contracts and, for purposes of this part, may be considered to be involved in conflict of interest situations as a result of their contract positions. In any situation involving potential conflict of interest of a Uniformed Service employee, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, may refer the case to the Uniformed Service concerned for appropriate review and action. If such a referral is made, a report of the results of findings and action taken shall be made to the Director, OCHAMPUS, by the Uniformed Service having jurisdiction within 90 days of receiving the referral.

(2) CHAMPUS cost-sharing shall be denied on any claim where a conflict of interest situation is found to exist. This denial of cost-sharing applies whether the claim is submitted by the individual who provided the care, the institutional provider in which the care was furnished, or the beneficiary.
