
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Administrative determination that the provider has participated in a conflict of interest situation.,provided

(iv)The Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, may exclude or suspend any provider who has knowingly been involved in a conflict of interest situation under CHAMPUS. The period of time of exclusion or suspension shall be determined by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section. For purposes of this administrative determination, it will be presumed that a CHAMPUS provider knowingly participated in a conflict of interest situation if the provider employs, in the treatment of a CHAMPUS beneficiary (resulting in a CHAMPUS claim), any medical personnel who are active duty members of the Uniformed Services or civilian employees of the Government. The burden of proof to rebut this presumption rests with the CHAMPUS provider. Two exceptions will be recognized to the presumption that a conflict of interest exists. First, indirect CHAMPUS payments may be made to private organizations to which physicians of the National Health Service Corps (NHSC) are assigned. Second, any off-duty Government medical personnel employed in an emergency room of an acute care hospital will be presumed not to have had the opportunity to exert, directly or indirectly, any influence on the referral of CHAMPUS beneficiaries; therefore, CHAMPUS payments may be made to the employing hospitalthe medical care was not furnished directly by the off-duty Government medical personnel in violation of dual compensation provisions.
