
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Effective date of termination.

(i)Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, the termination shall be retroactive to the date on which the provider did not meet the requirements of this part.

(A) The retroactive effective date of termination shall not be limited due to the passage of time, erroneous payment of claims, or any other events which may be cited as a basis for CHAMPUS recognition of the provider notwithstanding the fact that the provider does not meet program qualifications. Unless specific provision is made in this part to "grandfather" or authorize a provider who does not otherwise meet the qualifications established by this part, all unqualified providers shall be terminated.

(B) Any claims cost-shared or paid under CHAMPUS for services or supplies furnished by the provider on or after the effective date of termination, even when the effective date is retroactive, shall be deemed an erroneous payment unless specific exception is provided in this part. All erroneous payments are subject to collection under ยง 199.11 of this part.

(C) If an institution is terminated as an authorized CHAMPUS provider, the institution shall immediately give written notice of the termination to any CHAMPUS beneficiary (or their parent, guardian, or other representative) admitted to, or receiving care at, the institution on or after the effective date of the termination. In addition, when an institution is terminated with an effective date of termination after the date of the initial determination terminating the provider, any beneficiary admitted to the institution prior to the effective date of termination (or their parent, guardian, or other representative) shall be notified by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, by certified mail of the termination, and that CHAMPUS cost-sharing of the beneficiary's care in the institution will cease as of the effective date of the termination. However, any beneficiary admitted to the institution prior to any grace period extended to the institution under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section shall be advised that, if the beneficiary's care otherwise qualifies for CHAMPUS coverage, CHAMPUS cost-sharing of the care in the institution will continue in order to provide a reasonable period of transition of care; however the transitional period of CHAMPUS cost-sharing shall not exceed the last day of the month following the month in which the institution's status as a CHAMPUS provider is terminated. (This authorized CHAMPUS cost-sharing of the inpatient care received during the transition period is an exception to the general rule that CHAMPUS payment for care furnished after the effective date of termination of the provider's status shall be deemed to be an erroneous payment.) If a major violation under paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section is involved, in order to ensure immediate action is taken to transfer beneficiaries to an approved provider, CHAMPUS cost-sharing shall not be authorized after the effective date of termination of the provider's status.
