
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Terminations.

(2)When a provider's status as an authorized CHAMPUS provider is ended, other than through exclusion or suspension, the termination is based on a finding that the provider does not meet the qualifications to be an authorized provider, as set forth in this part. Therefore, the period of termination in all cases will be indefinite and will end only after the provider has successfully met the established qualifications for authorized provider status under CHAMPUS and has been reinstated under CHAMPUS. Except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph, the following guidelines control the termination of authorized CHAMPUS provider status for a provider whose license to practice (or, in the case of an institutional provider, to operate) has been temporarily or permanently suspended or revoked by the jurisdiction issuing the license.

(i) Termination of the provider under CHAMPUS shall continue even if the provider obtains a license to practice in a second jurisdiction during the period of suspension or revocation of the provider's license by the original licensing jurisdiction. A provider who has licenses to practice in two or more jurisdictions and has one or more license(s) suspended or revoked will also be terminated as a CHAMPUS provider.

(A) Professional providers shall remain terminated from the CHAMPUS until the jurisdiction(s) suspending or revoking the provider's license(s) to practice restores it or removes the impediment to restoration.

(B) Institutional providers shall remain terminated under CHAMPUS until their license is restored. In the event the facility is sold, transferred, or reorganized as a new legal entity, and a license issued under a new name or to a different legal entity, the new entity must submit an application to be an authorized CHAMPUS provider.

(ii) If the CHAMPUS provider status is terminated due to the loss of the provider's license, the effective date shall be retroactive to the date the provider lost the license; however, in the case of a professional provider who has licenses in two or more jurisdictions and submitted claims from a jurisdiction from which he/she had a valid license, the effective date of the termination will be 15 calendar days from the date of the written initial determination of termination for purposes of claims from the jurisdiction in which the provider still has a valid license.
