
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Procedures for initiating and implementing the administrative remedies,Temporary suspension of claims processing.,unless

(h)-(1)(i) In general, temporary suspension of claims processing may be invoked to protect the interests of the Government for a period reasonably necessary to complete investigation or appropriate criminal, civil, and administrative proceedings. The temporary suspension only delays the ultimate payment of otherwise appropriate claims. When claims processing involving a participating provider is temporarily suspended, the participation agreement remains in full force and the provider cannot repudiate the agreement because of the delay in the final disposition of the claim(s). Once it has been determined appropriate to end the temporary suspension of claims processing, CHAMPUS claims which were the subject of the suspension and which are otherwise determined to be in compliance with the requirements of law and regulation, will be processed to completion and paymentsuch action is deemed inappropriate as a result of criminal, civil, or administrative remedies ultimately invoked in the case.

(ii) When adequate evidence exists to determine that a provider or beneficiary is submitting fraudulent or false claims or claims involving practices that may be fraud or abuse as defined by this part, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, may suspend CHAMPUS claims processing (in whole or in part) for claims submitted by the beneficiary or any CHAMPUS claims involving care furnished by the provider. The temporary suspension of claims processing for care furnished by a provider may be invoked against all such claims, whether or not the claims are submitted by the beneficiary or by the provider as a participating CHAMPUS provider. In cases involving a provider, notice of the suspension of claims processing may also be given to the beneficiary community either directly or indirectly through notice to appropriate military facilities, health benefit advisors, and the information or news media.

(A) Adequate evidence is any information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.

(B) Indictment or any other initiation of criminal charges, filing of a complaint for civil fraud, issuance of an administrative complaint under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, or issuance of an initial determination under this part for submitting fraudulent or false claims or claims involving practices that may be fraud or abuse as defined by this part, shall constitute adequate evidence for invoking temporary suspension of claims processing.

(iii) The Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, may suspend CHAMPUS claims processing without first notifying the provider or beneficiary of the intent to suspend payments. Following a decision to invoke a temporary suspension, however, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, shall issue written notice advising the provider or beneficiary that:

(A) A temporary suspension of claims processing has been ordered and a statement of the basis of the decision to suspend payment. Unless the suspension is based on any of the actions set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the notice shall describe the suspected acts or omissions in terms sufficient to place the provider or beneficiary on notice without disclosing the Government's evidence.

(B) Within 30 days (or, upon written request received by OCHAMPUS during the 30 days and for good cause shown, within 60 days) from the date of the notice, the provider or beneficiary may:
