
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### 3

() In which additional proceedings to determine disputed material facts have been denied on the basis of advice of a responsible Government official that the substantial interests of the Government in pending or contemplated legal or administrative proceedings would be prejudiced.

(B) In a case in which additional proceedings are necessary as to disputed material facts, the suspending official's decision shall advise the beneficiary or provider that the case has been referred for handling as a hearing under ยง 199.10 of this part.

(v) A suspension of claims processing may be modified or terminated for reasons such as:

(A) Newly discovered evidence;

(B) Elimination of any of the causes for which the suspension was invoked; or

(C) Other reasons the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, deems appropriate.

(vi) A suspension of claims processing shall be for a temporary period pending the completion of investigation and any ensuing legal or administrative proceedings, unless sooner terminated by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, or as provided in this subparagraph.

(A) If legal or administrative proceedings are not initiated within 12 months after the date of the suspension notice, the suspension shall be terminated unless the Government official responsible for initiation of the legal or administrative action requests its extension, in which case it may be extended for an additional 6 months. In no event may a suspension extend beyond 18 months, unless legal or administrative proceedings have been initiated during that period.

(B) The Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, shall notify the Government official responsible for initiation of the legal or administrative action of the proposed termination of the suspension, at least 30 days before the 12-month period expires, to give the official an opportunity to request an extension.
