
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### § 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Reinstatement procedures,Restitution.

(4)-(i)(A) There is no entitlement under CHAMPUS for payment (cost-sharing) of any claim that involves either criminal or civil fraud as defined by law, or fraud or abuse or conflict of interest as defined by this part. In addition, except as specifically provided in this part, there is no entitlement under CHAMPUS for payment (cost-sharing) of any claim for services or supplies furnished by a provider who does not meet the requirements to be an authorized CHAMPUS provider. In any of the situations described above, CHAMPUS payment shall be denied whether the claim is submitted by the provider as a participating claim or by the beneficiary for reimbursement. If an erroneous payment has been issued in any such case, collection of the payment will be processed under § 199.11 of this part.

(B) If the Government has made erroneous payments to a provider because of claims involving fraud, abuse, or conflicts of interest, restitution of the erroneous payments shall be made before a request for reinstatement as a CHAMPUS authorized provider will be considered. Without restitution or resolution of the debt under § 199.11 of this part, a provider shall not be reinstated as an authorized CHAMPUS provider. This is not an appealable issue under § 199.10 of this part.

(C) For purposes of authorization as a CHAMPUS provider, a provider who is excluded or suspended under this § 199.9 and who submits participating claims for services furnished on or after the effective date of the exclusion or suspension is considered to have forfeited or waived any right or entitlement to bill the beneficiary for the care involved in the claims. Similarly, because a provider is expected to know the CHAMPUS requirements for qualification as an authorized provider, any participating provider who fails to meet the qualification requirements for CHAMPUS is considered to have forfeited or waived any right or entitlement to bill the beneficiary for the care involved in the CHAMPUS claims. If, in either situation, the provider bills the beneficiary, restitution to the beneficiary may be required by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, as a condition for consideration of reinstatement as a CHAMPUS authorized provider.
