
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.9 Administrative remedies for fraud, abuse, and conflict of interest.
####### Notice to Other Agencies.

(k)(1) When CHAMPUS excludes, suspends, or terminates a provider, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, will notify other appropriate agencies (for example, the Department of Health and Human Services and the state licensing agency that issued the provider's license to practice) that the individual has been excluded, suspended, or terminated as an authorized provider under CHAMPUS. An exclusion, suspension, or termination action is considered a public record. Such notice can include the notices and determinations sent to the suspended provider and other public documents such as testimony given at a hearing or exhibits or depositions given in a lawsuit or hearing. Notice may also be given to Uniformed Services Military Treatment Facilities, Health Benefit Advisors, beneficiaries and sponsors, the news media, and institutional providers if inpatient care was involved.

(2) If CHAMPUS has temporarily suspended claims processing, notice of such action normally will be given to the affected provider and Uniformed Services Medical Treatment Facilities, Health Benefits Advisors, beneficiaries, and sponsors. Notice may also be given to any information or news media and any other individual, professional provider, or institutional provider, as deemed appropriate. However, since a "temporary suspension of claims processing" is by definition not a final or formal agency action, the basis for the action generally will not be disclosed. It is noted that the basis for the action can be a result of questions arising from routine audits to investigation of possible criminal violations.
