
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### Initial determination,Notice of initial determination and right to appeal.

(1)-(i)(A) OCHAMPUS, OCHAMPUSEUR, and CHAMPUS contractors shall mail notices of initial determinations to the affected provider or CHAMPUS beneficiary (or representative) at the last known address. For beneficiaries who are under 18 years of age or who are incompetent, a notice issued to the parent, guardian, or other representative, under established CHAMPUS procedures, constitutes notice to the beneficiary.

(B) CHAMPUS contractors and OCHAMPUSEUR shall notify a provider of an initial determination on a claim only if the provider participated in the claim. (See ยง 199.7 of this part.)

(C) CHAMPUS peer review organizations shall notify providers and fiscal intermediaries of a denial determination on a claim.

(D) Notice of an initial determination on a claim processed by a CHAMPUS contractor or OCHAMPUSEUR normally will be made on a CHAMPUS Explanation of Benefits (CEOB) form.

(E) Each notice of an initial determination on a request for benefit authorization, a request by a provider for approval as an authorized CHAMPUS provider, or a decision to disqualify or exclude a provider as an authorized provider under CHAMPUS shall state the reason for the determination and the underlying facts supporting the determination.

(F) In any case when the initial determination is adverse to the beneficiary or participating provider, or to the provider seeking approval as an authorized CHAMPUS provider, the notice shall include a statement of the beneficiary's or provider's right to appeal the determination. The procedure for filing the appeal also shall be explained.
