
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### Parties to the initial determination.

(i)For purposes of the CHAMPUS appeals and hearing procedures, the following are not parties to an initial determination and are not entitled to administrative review under this section.

(A) A provider disqualified or excluded as an authorized provider under CHAMPUS based on a determination of abuse or fraudulent practices or procedures under another Federal or federally funded program is not a party to the CHAMPUS action and may not appeal under this section.

(B) A beneficiary who has an interest in receiving care or has received care from a particular provider cannot be an appealing party regarding the exclusion, suspension, or termination of the provider under ยง 199.9 of this part.

(C) A sponsor or parent of a beneficiary under 18 years of age or guardian or an incompetent beneficiary is not a party to the initial determination and may not serve as the appealing party, although such persons may represent the appealing party in an appeal.

(D) A third party, such as an insurance company, is not a party to the initial determination and is not entitled to appeal even though it may have an indirect interest in the initial determination.

(E) A nonparticipating provider is not a party to the initial determination and may not appeal.
