
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### Representative.

(ii)Any party to the initial determination may appoint a representative to act on behalf of the party in connection with an appeal. Generally, the parent of a minor beneficiary and the legally appointed guardian of an incompetent beneficiary shall be presumed to have been appointed representative without specific designation by the beneficiary. The custodial parent or legal guardian (appointed by a cognizant court) of a minor beneficiary may initiate an appeal based on the above presumption. However, should a minor beneficiary turn 18 years of age during the course of an appeal, then any further requests to appeal on behalf of the beneficiary must be from the beneficiary or pursuant to the written authorization of the beneficiary appointing a representative. For example, if the beneficiary is 17 years of age and the sponsor (who is a custodial parent) requests a formal review, absent written objection by the minor beneficiary, the sponsor is presumed to be acting on behalf of the minor beneficiary. Following the issuance of the formal review, the sponsor requests a hearing; however if, at the time of the request for a hearing, the beneficiary is 18 years of age or older, the request must either be by the beneficiary or the beneficiary must appoint a representative. The sponsor, in this example, could not pursue the request for hearing without being appointed by the beneficiary as the beneficiary's representative.

(A) The representative shall have the same authority as the party to the appeal and notice given to the representative shall constitute notice required to be given to the party under this part.

(B) To avoid possible conflicts of interest, an officer or employee of the United States, such as an employee or member of a Uniformed Service, including an employee or staff member of a Uniformed Service legal office, or a CHAMPUS advisor, subject to the exceptions in 18 U.S.C. 205, is not eligible to serve as a representative. An exception usually is made for an employee or member of a Uniformed Service who represents an immediate family member. In addition, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, may appoint an officer or employee of the United States as the CHAMPUS representative at a hearing.
