
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### § 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### Appealable issue.

(6)An appealable issue is required in order for an adverse determination to be appealed under the provisions of this section. Examples of issues that are not appealable under this section include:

(i) A dispute regarding a requirement of the law or regulation.

(ii) The amount of the CHAMPUS-determined allowable cost or charge, since the methodology for determining allowable costs or charges is established by this part.

(iii) The establishment of diagnosis-related groups (DRGs), or the methodology for the classification of inpatient discharges within the DRGs, or the weighting factors that reflect the relative hospital resources used with respect to discharges within each DRG, since each of these is established by this part.

(iv) Certain other issues on the basis that the authority for the initial determination is not vested in CHAMPUS. Such issues include but are not limited to the following examples:

(A) Determination of a person's eligibility as a CHAMPUS beneficiary is the responsibility of the appropriate Uniformed Service. Although OCHAMPUS, OCHAMPUSEUR, and CHAMPUS contractors must make determinations concerning a beneficiary's eligibility in order to ensure proper disbursement of appropriated funds on each CHAMPUS claim processed, ultimate responsibility for resolving a beneficiary's eligibility rests with the Uniformed Services. Accordingly, disputed question of fact concerning a beneficiary's eligibility will not be considered an appealable issue under the provisions of this section, but shall be resolved in accordance with § 199.3 of this part.

(B) Similarly, decisions relating to the issuance of a Nonavailability Statement (DD Form 1251) in each case are made by the Uniformed Services. Disputes over the need for a Nonavailability Statement or a refusal to issue a Nonavailability Statement are not appealable under this section. The one exception is when a dispute arises over whether the facts of the case demonstrate a medical emergency for which a Nonavailability Statement is not required. Denial of payment in this one situation is an appealable issue.

(C) Any sanction, including the period of the sanction, imposed under § 199.9 of this part which is based solely on a provider's exclusion or suspension by another agency of the Federal Government, a state, or a local licensing authority is not appealable under this section. The provider must exhaust administrative appeal rights offered by the other agency that made the initial determination to exclude or suspend the provider. Similarly, any sanction imposed under § 199.9 which is based solely on a criminal conviction or civil judgment against the provider is not appealable under this section. If the sanction imposed under § 199.9 is not based solely on the provider's criminal conviction or civil judgment or on the provider's exclusion or suspension by another agency of the Federal Government, a state, or a local licensing authority, that portion of the CHAMPUS administrative determination which is in addition to the criminal conviction/civil judgment or exclusion/suspension by the other agency may be appealed under this section.

(v) A decision by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, as a suspending official when the decision is final under the provisions of § 199.9(h)(1)(iv)(A).
