
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### Amount in dispute.

(7)An amount in dispute is required for an adverse determination to be appealed under the provisions of this section, except as set forth below.

(i) The amount in dispute is calculated as the amount of money CHAMPUS would pay if the services and supplies involved in dispute were determined to be authorized CHAMPUS benefits. Examples of amounts of money that are excluded by the Regulation from CHAMPUS payments for authorized benefits include, but are not limited to:

(A) Amounts in excess of the CHAMPUS-determined allowable charge or cost.

(B) The beneficiary's CHAMPUS deductible and cost-share amounts.

(C) Amounts that the CHAMPUS beneficiary, or parent, guardian, or other responsible person has no legal obligation to pay.

(D) Amounts excluded under the provisions of ยง 199.8 of this part.

(ii) The amount of dispute for appeals involving a denial of a request for authorization in advance of obtaining care shall be the estimated allowable charge or cost for the services requested.

(iii) There is no requirement for an amount in dispute when the appealable issue involves a denial of a provider's request for approval as an authorized CHAMPUS provider or the determination to exclude, suspend, or terminate a provider's authorized CHAMPUS provider status.

(iv) Individual claims may be combined to meet the required amount in dispute if all of the following exist:

(A) The claims involve the same beneficiary.

(B) The claims involve the same issue.

(C) At least one of the claims so combined has had a reconsideration decision issued by OCHAMPUSEUR, a CHAMPUS contractor, or a CHAMPUS peer review organization.
