
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 45 - MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
###### ยง 45.9 Calculation of damages: economic damages.
####### Elements of economic damages in personal injury cases.

(b)Elements of economic damage are limited to the following:

(1) Past expenses, including medical, hospital, and related expenses actually incurred. These expenses do not include health care services provided or paid for by DoD or VA.

(2) Future medical, hospital, and related expenses. These expenses do not include health care goods and services for which the member is entitled to receive from, or be reimbursed for by, DoD (including TRICARE) or VA. Goods and services provided or paid for by DoD or VA are deemed sufficient to meet the claimant's needs for that particular type of good or service.

(3) Past lost earnings unrelated to compensation as a member of the uniformed services. Appropriate documentation is required.

(4) Loss of earning capacity, after deducting for the claimant's personal consumption from the date of injury causing death until expiration of the claimant's work-life expectancy, as substantiated by appropriate documentation. In addition, loss of retirement benefits is compensable and similarly discounted after appropriate deductions. Estimates must be discounted to present value.

(5) Compensation when the claimant can no longer perform essential household services on his or her own behalf, including activities of daily living. This compensation does not include goods and services the member is entitled to receive from, or be reimbursed for by, DoD or VA. Goods and services provided or paid for by DoD or VA are deemed sufficient to meet the claimant's needs for that particular type of good or service.
