
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### Timeliness of hearing.

(3)(i) Except as otherwise provided in this section, within 60 days following receipt of a request for hearing, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, normally will appoint a hearing officer to hear the appeal. Copies of all records in the possession of OCHAMPUS that are pertinent to the matter to be heard or that formed the basis of the formal review determination shall be provided to the hearing officer and, upon request, to the appealing party.

(ii) The hearing officer, except as otherwise provided in this Section, normally shall have 60 days from the date of written notice of assignment to review the file, schedule and hold the hearing, and issue a recommended decision to the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee.

(iii) The Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, may delay the case assignment to the hearing officer if additional information is needed that cannot be obtained and included in the record within the time period specified above. The appealing party will be notified in writing of the delay resulting from the request for additional information. The Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, in such circumstances, will assign the case to a hearing officer within 30 days of receipt of all such additional information, or within 60 days of receipt of the request for hearing, whichever shall occur last.

(iv) The hearing officer may delay submitting the recommended decision if, at the close of the hearing, any party to the hearing requests that the record remain open for submission of additional information. In such circumstances, the hearing officer will have 30 days following receipt of all such additional information including comments from the other parties to the hearing concerning the additional information to submit the recommended decision to the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee.
