
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### By abandonment.

(iii)The Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, may dismiss a request for hearing upon abandonment by the appealing party.

(A) An appealing party shall be deemed to have abandoned a request for hearing, other than when personal appearance is waived in accordance with ยง 199.10(d)(11)(xii), if neither the appealing party nor an appointed representative appears at the time and place fixed for the hearing and if, within 10 days after the mailing of a notice by certified mail to the appealing party by the hearing officer to show cause, such party does not show good and sufficient cause for such failure to appear and failure to notify the hearing officer before the time fixed for hearing that an appearance could not be made.

(B) An appealing party shall be deemed to have abandoned a request for hearing if, before assignment of the case to the hearing officer, OCHAMPUS is unable to locate either the appealing party or an appointed representative.

(C) An appealing party shall be deemed to have abandoned a request for hearing if the appealing party fails to prosecute the appeal. Failure to prosecute the appeal includes, but is not limited to, an appealing party's failure to provide information reasonably requested by OCHAMPUS or the hearing officer for consideration in the appeal.

(D) If the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, dismisses the request for hearing because of abandonment, the formal review determination in the case shall be deemed to be final, unless the dismissal is vacated in accordance with paragraph (d)(9)(v) of this section.
