
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.10 Appeal and hearing procedures.
####### Final action.

(i)If the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, concurs in the recommended decision, no further agency action is required and the recommended decision, as adopted by the Director, OCHAMPUS, is the final agency decision in the appeal. In the case of rejection, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, shall state the reason for disagreement with the recommended decision and the underlying facts supporting such disagreement. In these circumstances, the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, may have a final decision prepared based on the record, or may remand the matter to the Hearing Officer for appropriate action. In the latter instance, the Hearing Officer shall take appropriate action and submit a new recommended decision within 60 days of receipt of the remand order. The decision by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or a designee, concerning a case arising under the procedures of this section, shall be the final agency decision and the final decision shall be sent by certified mail to the appealing party or parties. A final agency decision under paragraph (e)(1) of this section will not be relied on, used, or cited as precedent by the Department of Defense in the administration of CHAMPUS.
