
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### General.

(a)Actions to recover overpayments arise when the government has a right to recover money, funds, or property from any person, partnership, association, corporation, governmental body or other legal entity, foreign or domestic, except another Federal agency, because of an erroneous payment of benefits under both CHAMPUS and the TRICARE program under this part. The term "Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services" (CHAMPUS) is defined in 10 U.S.C. 1072(2), referred to as the CHAMPUS basic program. Prior to January 1, 2018, the term "TRICARE program" referred to the triple-option of health benefits known as TRICARE Prime, TRICARE Extra, and TRICARE Standard. Specifically, TRICARE Standard was the TRICARE program under which the basic program of health care benefits generally referred to as CHAMPUS was made available to eligible beneficiaries under this Part 199. Effective January 1, 2018, the term "TRICARE program" is defined in 10 U.S.C. 1072(2) and includes TRICARE Prime, TRICARE Select and TRICARE for Life. It is the purpose of this section to prescribe procedures for investigation, determination, assertion, collection, compromise, waiver and termination of claims in favor of the United States for erroneous benefit payments arising out of the administration CHAMPUS and the TRICARE program. For the purpose of this section, references herein to TRICARE beneficiaries, claims, benefits, payments, or appeals shall include CHAMPUS beneficiaries, claims, benefits, payments, or appeals. A claim against several joint debtors arising from a single incident or transaction is considered one claim. The Director, or a designee, may pursue collection against all joint debtors and is not required to allocate the burden of payment between debtors.
