
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Appealability.

(d)This section describes the procedures to be followed in the recovery and collection of federal claims in favor of the United States arising from the operation of TRICARE. Actions taken under this section are not initial determinations for the purpose of the appeal procedures of ยง 199.10 of this part. However, the proper exercise of the right to appeal benefit or provider status determinations under the procedures set forth in ยง 199.10 of this part may affect the processing of federal claims arising under this section. Those appeal procedures afford a TRICARE beneficiary or participating provider an opportunity for administrative appellate review in cases in which benefits have been denied and in which there is an appealable issue. For example, a TRICARE contractor may erroneously make payment for services, which are excluded as TRICARE benefits because they are determined to be not medically necessary. In that event, the contractor will initiate recoupment action, and at the same time, the contractor will offer an administrative appeal as provided in ยง 199.10 of this part on the medical necessity issue raised by the adverse benefit determination. The recoupment action and the administrative appeal are separate actions. However, in an appropriate case, the pendency of the appeal may provide a basis for the suspension of collection in the recoupment case. If an appeal were resolved entirely in favor of the appealing party, it would provide a basis for the termination of collection action in the recoupment case.
