
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Good faith payment.

(5)(i) The Department of Defense, through the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS), is responsible for establishing and maintaining a file listing of persons eligible to receive benefits under TRICARE. However, it is the responsibility of the Uniformed Services to provide eligible TRICARE beneficiaries with accurate and appropriate means of identification. When sources of civilian medical care exercise reasonable care and precaution identifying persons claiming to be eligible TRICARE beneficiaries, and furnish otherwise covered services and supplies to such persons in good faith, TRICARE benefits may be paid subject to prior approval by the Director, TMA, or a designee, notwithstanding the fact that the person receiving the services and supplies is subsequently determined to be ineligible for benefits. Good faith payments will not be authorized for services and supplies provided by a civilian source of medical care because of its own careless identification procedures.

(ii) When it is determined that a person was not a TRICARE beneficiary, the TRICARE contractor and the civilian source of medical care are expected to make all reasonable efforts to obtain payment or to recoup the amount of the good faith payment from the person who erroneously claimed to be the TRICARE beneficiary. Recoupment of good faith payments initiated by the TRICARE contractor will be processed pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section.
