
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Demand for payment.

(ii)Written demand(s) for payment shall inform the debtor of the following:

(A) The basis for and amount of the debt and the consequences of failing to cooperate to resolve the debt;

(B) The right to inspect and copy TRICARE records pertaining to the debt;

(C) The opportunity to request an administrative review by the TRICARE contractor; and that such a request must be received by the TRICARE contractor within 90 days from the date of the initial demand letter;

(D) That payment of the debt is due within 30 days from the date of the initial demand notification;

(E) That interest will be assessed on the debt at the Treasury Current Value of Funds rate, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, and will begin to accrue on the date of the initial demand letter; and that interest will be waived on the debt, or any portion thereof, which is paid within 30 days from the date of the initial demand notification letter;

(F) That administrative costs and penalties will be charged pursuant to 31 CFR 901.9;

(G) That collection by offset against current or subsequent claims or other amounts payable from the government may be taken;

(H) The opportunity to enter into a written agreement to repay the debt;

(I) The name, address, and phone number of a contact person or office that the debtor may contact regarding the debt.

(iii) A minimum of one demand letter is required. However, the specific content, timing and number of demand letters may be tailored to the type and amount of the debt, and the debtor's response, if any. Contractors' demand letters must be mailed or hand-delivered on the same date they are dated.

(iv) The initial or subsequent demand letters may also inform the debtor of the requirement to report delinquent debts to credit reporting agencies and to collection agencies, the requirement to refer debts to the Treasury Offset Program for offset from Federal income tax refunds and other amounts payable by the Government, offset from state payments, the requirement to refer debts to Treasury for collection and TRICARE policies concerning the referral of delinquent debts to the Department of Justice for enforced collection action. The initial or subsequent demand letter may also inform the debtor of TRICARE policies concerning waiver. When necessary to protect the Government's interest (for example to prevent the running of a statute of limitations), written demand may be preceded by other appropriate actions under this regulation, including referral to the Department of Justice for litigation. There should be no undue delay in responding to any communication received from the debtor. Responses to communications from debtors should be made within 30 days of receipt whenever feasible. If prior to the initiation of the demand process or at any time during or after completion of the demand process, the Director, TMA, or a designee, determines to pursue or is required to pursue offset, the procedures applicable to administrative offset, found at paragraph (f)(6)(v) of this section, must be followed. If it appears that initial collection efforts are not productive or if immediate legal action on the claim appears necessary, the claim shall be referred promptly by the contractor to the Office of General Counsel, TMA.
