
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Collection by administrative offset.

(v)Collections by offset will be undertaken administratively in every instance when feasible. Collections may be taken by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the common law or other applicable statutory authority. No collection by offset may be undertaken unless the debtor has been sent a written demand for payment, including the procedural safeguards described in paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section, unless the failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt, and the time before payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the time for sending written notice. Such prior offset must be promptly followed by sending a written notice and affording the debtor the opportunity for a review by the TRICARE contractor. Examples of erroneous payments include, but are not limited to, claims submitted by individuals ineligible for TRICARE benefits, claims submitted for non-covered services or supplies, claims for which payments by another insurance or health plan reduce TRICARE liability, and from claims made from participating providers in which payment was initially erroneously made to the beneficiary. The resolution of recoupment claims rarely involves issues of credibility or veracity and a review of the written record is ordinarily an adequate means to correct prior mistakes. For this reason, the pre-offset oral hearing requirements of the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR 901.3(e) do not apply to the recoupment of erroneous TRICARE payments. However, in instances where an oral hearing is not required, the debtor will be afforded an administrative review if the TRICARE contractor receives a written request for an administrative review within 90 days from the date of the initial demand letter. The appeals procedures described in ยง 199.10 of this part, afford a TRICARE beneficiary or participating provider an opportunity for an administrative appellate review, including under certain circumstances, the right to an oral hearing before a hearing officer when an appealable issue exists. TRICARE contractors may take administrative action to offset erroneous payments against other current TRICARE payments owing a debtor. Payments on the claims of a debtor pending at or filed subsequent to the time collection action is initiated should be suspended pending the outcome of the collection action so that these funds will be available for offset. All or part of a debt may be offset depending on the amount available for offset. Any requests for offset received from other agencies and garnishment orders issued by courts of competent jurisdiction will be forwarded to the Office of General Counsel, TMA. Unless otherwise provided by law, administrative offset of payments under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3716 may not be conducted more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect the debt were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the TRICARE official or officials charged with the responsibility to discover and collect such debts. This limitation does not apply to debts reduced to judgment. This section does not apply to debts arising under the Social Security Act, except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 404, payments made under the Social Security Act, except as provided for in 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code, except for offset of tax refunds or tariff laws of the United States; offsets against Federal salaries to the extent these standards are inconsistent with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716; offsets under 31 U.S.C. 3728 against a judgment obtained by a debtor against the United States; offset or recoupment under common law, state law, or federal statutes specifically prohibiting offset or recoupment of particular types of debts or offsets in the course of judicial proceedings, including bankruptcy.
