
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Referral for centralized administrative offset.

(A)When cost-effective, legally enforceable non-tax debts delinquent over 180 days that are eligible for collection through administrative offset shall be referred to Treasury for administrative offset, unless otherwise exempted from referral. Referrals shall include certification that the debt is past due and legally enforceable and that TMA has complied with all due process requirements of the statute-authorizing offset. Administrative offset, including administrative offset against tax refunds due debtors under 26 U.S.C. 6402, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3720A, shall be effected through referral for centralized administrative offset, after debtors have been afforded at least sixty (60) days notice required in paragraph (f)(6) of this section. Salary offsets shall be effected through referral for centralized administrative offset, after debtors have been afforded due process required by 5 U.S.C. 5514, in accordance with 31 CFR 285.7. Referrals for salary offset shall include certification that the debts are past due, legally enforceable debts and that TMA has complied with all due process requirements under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable agency regulations. The Treasury, Financial Management Service (FMS) may waive the salary offset certification requirement set forth in 31 CFR 285.7, as a prerequisite to submitting the debt to FMS for offset from other payment types. If FMS waives the certification requirement, before an offset occurs, TMA will provide the employee with the notice and opportunity for a hearing as required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations, and will certify to FMS that the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable agency regulations have been met. TMA is not required to duplicate notice and administrative review or salary offset hearing opportunities before referring debts for centralized administrative offset when the debtor has been previously given them.
