
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Petition for hearing.

(B)The notice of the proposed offset will advise the debtor of his or her right to petition for a hearing. The petition for hearing must be signed by the debtor or his or her representative and must state whether he or she is contesting debt validity, debt amount and/or the terms of the proposed offset schedule. It must explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence and witnesses, if any (in the case of an oral hearing and a summary of their anticipated testimony), which the debtor believes support his or her position, and include any supporting documentation. If contesting the terms of the proposed offset schedule, the debtor must provide financial information including a completed Department of Justice Financial Statement of Debtor form (OBD-500 or other form prescribed by DOJ), including specific details concerning income and expenses of the employee, his or her spouse and dependents for 1-year period preceding the debt notification and projected income and expenses for the proposed offset period and a statement of the reason why the debtor believes the salary offset schedule will impose extreme financial hardship. Upon receipt of the petition for hearing, the Director, TMA, or a designee, will complete reconsideration. If the Director, TMA, or a designee determines that the debt amount is not owed, that a less amount is owed, or that the terms of the employee's proposed offset schedule are acceptable, it will advise the debtor and request that the employee accept the results of the reconsideration in lieu of a hearing. If the employee declines to accept the results of reconsideration in lieu of a hearing, the debtor will be afforded a hearing. Ordinarily, a petition for hearing and required submissions that are not timely filed, shall be accepted after expiration of the deadline provided in the notice of the proposed offset, only when the debtor can demonstrate to the Director, TMA, or a designee, that the timely filing of the request was not feasible due to extraordinary circumstances over which the appealing party had no practical control or because of failure to receive notice of the time limit (unless he or she was otherwise aware of it). Each request for an exception to the timely filing requirement will be considered on its own merits. The decision of the Director, TMA, or a designee, on a request for an exception to the timely filing requirement shall be final.
