
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Form and content of hearings.

(D)The resolution of recoupment claims rarely involves issues of credibility or veracity and a review of the written record is ordinarily an adequate means to determine the validity or amount of the debt and/or the terms of a proposed offset schedule. The Director, TMA, or a designee, will determine whether an oral hearing is required. A debtor who has petitioned for a hearing, but who is not entitled to an oral hearing will be given an administrative hearing, based on the written documentation submitted by the debtor and the Director, TMA, or a designee. If the Director, TMA, or a designee, determines that the debtor should be afforded the opportunity for an oral hearing, the debtor may elect to have a hearing based on the written record in lieu of an oral hearing. The Director, TMA, or a designee, will provide the debtor (or his representative) notification of the time, date and location of the oral hearing to be held if the debtor has been afforded an oral hearing. Copies of records documenting the debt will be provided to the debtor or his representative (if they have not been previously provided), at least 3 calendar days prior to the date of the oral hearing. At oral hearings, the only evidence permitted, except oral testimony, will be that which was previously submitted as pre-hearing submissions. At oral hearings, the debtor may not raise any issues not previously raised with TMA. In the absence of good cause shown, a debtor who fails to appear at an oral hearing will be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and salary offset may be initiated.
