
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Collection of installments.

(ix)Debts, including interest, penalty and administrative costs shall be collected in one lump sum whenever possible. However, when the debtor is financially unable to pay the debt in one lump sum, the TRICARE contractor or the Director, TMA, or designee, may accept payment in installments. Debtors claiming that lump sum payment will create financial hardship may be required to complete a Department of Justice Financial Statement of Debtor form or provide other financial information that will permit TMA to verify such representations. TMA may also obtain credit reports to assess installment requests. Normally, debtors will make installment payments on a monthly basis. Installment payment shall bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. Except when a debtor can demonstrate financial hardship or another reasonable cause exists, installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in 3 years or less. (31 CFR 901.8(b)). Normally, installment payments of $75 or less will not be accepted unless the debtor demonstrates financial hardship. Any installment agreement with a debtor in which the total amount of deferred installments will exceed $750, should normally include an executed promissory agreement. Copies of installment agreements will be retained in the contractor's or TMA, Office of General Counsel's files.
