
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.

(x)Title 31 U.S.C. 3717 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR 901.9, require the assessment of interest, penalty and administrative costs on delinquent debts. Interest shall accrue from the date the initial debt notification is mailed to the debtor. The rate of interest assessed shall be the rate of the current value of funds to the United States Treasury (the Treasury tax and loan account rate). The collection of interest on the debt or any portion of the debt, which is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest begins to accrue, shall be waived. The Director, TMA, or designee, may extend this 30-day period on a case-by-case basis, if it reasonably determines that such action is appropriate. The rate of interest as initially assessed shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness; except that where the debtor has defaulted on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, a new interest rate may be set which reflects the current value of funds to the Treasury at the time the new agreement is executed. Interest shall not be compounded; that is, interest shall not be charged on interest, penalties, or administrative costs required by this section. However, if a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement, charges that accrued but were not collected under the defaulted agreement, shall be added to the principal under the new repayment agreement. The collection of interest, penalties and administrative costs may be waived in whole or in part as a part of the compromise of a debt as provided in paragraph (g) of this section. In addition, the Director, TMA, or designee may waive in whole or in part, the collection of interest, penalties, or administrative costs assessed herein if he or she determines that collection would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States. Some situations in which a waiver may be appropriate include:

(A) Waiver of interest consistent with 31 CFR 903.2(c)(2) in connection with a suspension of collection when a TRICARE appeal is pending under ยง 199.10 of this part where there is a substantial issue of fact in dispute.

(B) Waiver of interest where the original debt arose through no fault or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor and the collection of interest would impose a financial hardship or burden on the debtor. Some examples in which such a waiver would be appropriate include: A debt arising when a TRICARE beneficiary in good faith files and is paid for a claim for medical services or supplies, which are later determined not to be covered benefits, or a debt arising when a TRICARE beneficiary is overpaid as the result of a calculation error on the part of the TRICARE contractor or TMA.

(C) Waiver of interest where there has been an agreement to repay a debt in installments, there is no indication of fault or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor, and the amount of interest is so large in relation to the size of the installments that the debtor can reasonably afford to pay, that it is likely the debt will never be repaid in full. When a debt is paid in installments, the installment payments first will be applied to the payment of outstanding penalty and administrative cost charges, second, to accrued interest and then to principal. Administrative costs incurred as the result of a debt becoming delinquent (as defined in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section) shall be assessed against a debtor. These administrative costs represent the additional costs incurred in processing and handling the debt because it became delinquent. The calculation of administrative costs should be based upon cost analysis establishing an average of actual additional costs incurred in processing and handling claims against other debtors in similar stages of delinquency. A penalty charge, not exceeding six percent a year, shall be assessed on the amount due on a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days. This charge, which need not be calculated until the 91st day of delinquency, shall accrue from the date that the debt became delinquent.
