
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.11 Overpayments recovery.
####### Reporting delinquent debts to credit reporting agencies.

(xii)Delinquent consumer debts shall be reported to credit reporting agencies. Delinquent debts are debts which are not paid or for which satisfactory payment arrangements are not made by the due date specified in the initial debt notification letter, or those for which the debtor has entered into a written payment agreement and installment payments are past due 30 days or longer. Such referrals shall comply with the Bankruptcy Code and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended. The provisions of the Privacy Act do not apply to credit bureaus (31 CFR 901.4(1)). There is no requirement to duplicate the notice and review opportunities before referring debts to credit bureaus. Debtors will be advised of the specific information to be transmitted (i.e., name, address, and taxpayer identification number, information about the debt). Procedures developed for such referrals must ensure that an accounting of the disclosures shall be kept which is available to the debtor; that the credit reporting agencies are provided with corrections and annotations of disagreements of the debtor; and that reasonable efforts are made to ensure that the information to be reported is accurate, complete, timely and relevant. When requested by a credit-reporting agency, verification of the information disclosed will be provided promptly. Once a claim has been reviewed and determined to be valid, a complete explanation of the claim will be given the debtor. When the claim is overdue, the individual will be notified in writing that payment is overdue; that within not less than 60 days, disclosure of the claim shall be made to a consumer reporting agency unless satisfactory payment arrangements are made, or unless the debtor requests an administrative review and demonstrates some basis on which the debt is legitimately disputed; and of the specific information to be disclosed to the consumer reporting agency. The information to be disclosed to the credit reporting agency will be limited to information necessary to establish the identity of the debtor, including name, address and taxpayer identification number; the amount, status and history of the claim; and the agency or program under which the claim arose. Reasonable action will be taken to locate an individual for whom a current address is not available. The requirements of this section do not apply to commercial debts, although commercial debts shall be reported to commercial credit bureaus. Treasury will report debts transferred to it for collection to credit reporting agencies on behalf of the Director, TMA, or a designee.
