
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### § 199.12 Third party recoveries.
####### Appealability.

(c)This section describes the procedures to be followed in the assertion and collection of third-party recovery claims in favor of the United States arising from the operation of TRICARE. Actions taken under this section are not initial determinations for the purpose of the appeal procedures of § 199.10 of this part. However, the proper exercise of the right to appeal benefit or provider status determinations under the procedures set forth in § 199.10 may affect the processing of federal claims arising under this section. Those appeal procedures afford a TRICARE beneficiary or participating provider an opportunity for administrative appellate review in cases in which benefits have been denied and in which there is a significant factual dispute. For example, a TRICARE contractor may deny payment for services that are determined to be excluded as TRICARE benefits because they are found to be not medically necessary. In that event the TRICARE contractor will offer an administrative appeal as provided in § 199.10 of this part on the medical necessity issue raised by the adverse benefit determination. If the care in question results from an accidental injury and if the appeal results in a reversal of the initial determination to deny the benefit, a third-party recovery claim may arise as a result of the appeal decision to pay the benefit. However, in no case is the decision to initiate such a claim itself appealable under § 199.10.
