
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.12 Third party recoveries.
####### Processing TRICARE claims.

(2)When the TRICARE contractor initially identifies a claim as involving a potential third-party payer, it shall request additional information concerning the circumstances of the injury or disease and/or the identify of any potential third-party payer from the beneficiary or other responsible party unless adequate information is submitted with the claim. The TRICARE claim will be suspended and no payment issued pending receipt of the requested information. If the requested information is not received, the claim will be denied. A TRICARE beneficiary may expedite the processing of his or her TRICARE claim by submitting appropriate information with the first claim for treatment of an accidental injury. Third-party payer information normally is required only once concerning any single accidental injury on episode of care. Once the third-party payer information pertaining to a single incident or episode of care is received, subsequent claims associated with the same incident or episode of care may be processed to payment in the usual manner. If, however, the requested third-party payer information is not received, subsequent claims involving the same incident or episode of care will be suspended or denied as stated above.
