
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.13 TRICARE Dental Program.
####### Applicability,Geographic scope.

(2)-(i)(A) The TDP is applicable geographically within the fifty (50) States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These areas are collectively referred to as the "CONUS (or Continental United States) service area".

(B) Extension of the TDP to areas outside the CONUS service area. In accordance with the authority cited in 10 U.S.C. 1076a(h), the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) (ASD(HA)) may extend the TDP to areas other than those areas specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section for the eligible members and eligible dependents of members of the Uniformed Services. These areas are collectively referred to as the "OCONUS (or outside the Continental United States) service area". In extending the TDP outside the CONUS service area, the ASD(HA), or designee, is authorized to establish program elements, methods of administration and payment rates and procedures to providers that are different from those in effect for the CONUS service area to the extent the ASD(HA), or designee, determines necessary for the effective and efficient operation of the TDP. This includes provisions for preauthorization of care if the needed services are not available in a Uniformed Service overseas dental treatment facility and payment by the Department of certain cost-shares (or co-payments) and other portions of a provider's billed charges for certain beneficiary categories. Other differences may occur based on limitations in the availability and capabilities of the Uniformed Service overseas dental treatment facility and a particular nation's civilian sector providers in certain areas. These differences include varying licensure and certification requirements of OCONUS providers, Uniformed Service provider selection criteria and local results of provider selection, referral, beneficiary pre-authorization and marketing procedures, and care for beneficiaries residing in distant areas. The Director, Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (OCHAMPUS) shall issue guidance, as necessary, to implement the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B). Beneficiaries will be eligible for the same TDP benefits in the OCONUS service area although services may not be available or accessible in all OCONUS countries.
