
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.13 TRICARE Dental Program.
####### Preemption of State and local laws.

(4)(i) Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1103 and section 8025 (fourth proviso) of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1994, DoD has determined that, in the administration of 10 U.S.C. chapter 55, preemption of State and local laws relating to health insurance, prepaid health plans, or other health care delivery or financing methods is necessary to achieve important Federal interests, including, but not limited to, the assurance of uniform national health programs for Uniformed Service beneficiaries and the operation of such programs at the lowest possible cost to DoD, that have a direct and substantial effect on the conduct of military affairs and national security policy of the United States. This determination is applicable to the dental services contracts that implement this section.

(ii) Based on the determination set forth in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, any State or local law relating to health or dental insurance, prepaid health or dental plans, or other health or dental care delivery or financing methods is preempted and does not apply in connection with the TDP contract. Any such law, or regulation pursuant to such law, is without any force or effect, and State or local governments have no legal authority to enforce them in relation to the TDP contract. (However, DoD may, by contract, establish legal obligations on the part of the dental plan contractor to conform with requirements similar or identical to requirements of State or local laws or regulations.)

(iii) The preemption of State and local laws set forth in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section includes State and local laws imposing premium taxes on health or dental insurance carriers or underwriters or other plan managers, or similar taxes on such entities. Such laws are laws relating to health insurance, prepaid health plans, or other health care delivery or financing methods, within the meaning of the statutes identified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. Preemption, however, does not apply to taxes, fees, or other payments on net income or profit realized by such entities in the conduct of business relating to DoD health services contracts, if those taxes, fees, or other payments are applicable to a broad range of business activity. For purposes of assessing the effect of Federal preemption of State and local taxes and fees in connection with DoD health and dental services contracts, interpretations shall be consistent with those applicable to the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program under 5 U.S.C. 8909(f).
