
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 45 - MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
###### ยง 45.11 Calculation of damages: offsets for DoD and VA Government compensation.
####### Payments and benefits that are offsets.

(f)Potential damage awards under this part are offset by the present value of the following payments and benefits:

(1) Pay and allowances while a member remains on active duty or in an active status.

(2) Disability retired pay in the case of retirement due to the disability caused by the alleged medical malpractice.

(3) Disability severance pay in the case of non-retirement disability separation caused by the alleged medical malpractice.

(4) Incapacitation pay.

(5) Involuntary and voluntary separation pays and incentives.

(6) Death gratuity.

(7) Housing allowance continuation.

(8) Survivor Benefit Plan.

(9) VA disability compensation, to include Special Monthly Compensation, attributable to the disability resulting from the malpractice.

(10) VA Dependency and Indemnity Compensation, attributable to the disability resulting from the malpractice.

(11) Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance.

(12) Special Compensation for Assistance with Activities of Daily Living.

(13) Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers.

(14) Fry Scholarship.

(15) TRICARE coverage, including TRICARE-for-Life, for a disability retiree, family, or survivors. Future TRICARE coverage is part of the Government's compensation package for a disability retiree or survivor.
