
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 45 - MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
###### ยง 45.12 Initial and Final Determinations.
####### Initial Determination.

(d)(1) Upon consideration of the information provided by the claimant and relevant information available to DoD, DoD will issue the claimant a written Initial Determination.

(2) The Initial Determination may be in the form of a certified letter and/or an email. The Initial Determination may take the form of a grant of a claim and an offer of settlement or a denial of the claim. Subject to applicable confidentiality requirements, such as 10 U.S.C. 1102, privileged information, and paragraph (a) of this section, DoD will provide a meaningful basis for an offer of settlement or will provide a meaningful explanation for the denial of a claim that includes the specific basis for the denial.

(3) The Initial Determination will include information on the claimant's right to appeal if the claimant does not agree with the Initial Determination.

(4) The claimant may request reconsideration of the damages calculation contained in an Initial Determination if, within the time otherwise allowed to file an administrative appeal, the claimant identifies an alleged clear error-a definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been committed-in the damages calculation. The DoD Component that issued the Initial Determination will review the alleged clear error and will issue an Initial Determination on Reconsideration either granting or denying reconsideration of the Initial Determination and adjusting the damages calculation, if appropriate. The Initial Determination on Reconsideration will include information on the claimant's right to appeal under the procedures in ยง 45.13.
