
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 45 - MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
###### ยง 45.13 Appeals.
####### Appeals Board.

(b)Appeals will be decided by an Appeals Board administratively supported by the Office of the General Counsel, Defense Health Agency. Although there may be, in DoD's discretion, multiple offices that initially adjudicate claims under this part (such as offices in the Military Departments), there is a single DoD Appeals Board. The Appeals Board will consist of DoD attorneys designated by the Defense Health Agency from that agency and/or the Military Departments who are experienced in medical malpractice claims adjudication. Appeals Board members must not have had any previous role in the claims adjudication under appeal. The Appeals Board will consider cases in panels designated by the General Counsel of the Defense Health Agency of not fewer than three and no more than five Appeals Board members. Appeals are decided on a written record and decisions will be approved by a majority of the members. There is no adversarial proceeding and no hearing. There is no opposing party. The Appeals Board may obtain information or assessments from appropriate sources, including from the claimant, to assist in deciding the appeal. The Appeals Board is bound by the provisions of this part and will not consider challenges to them.
