
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.13 TRICARE Dental Program.
####### Benefit payment.

(2)Beneficiaries are not required to utilize participating providers. For beneficiaries who do use these participating providers, however, these providers shall not balance bill any amount in excess of the maximum payment allowed by the dental plan contractor for covered services. Beneficiaries using nonparticipating providers may be balance-billed amounts in excess of the dental plan contractor's determination of allowable charges. The following general requirements for the TDP benefit payment methodology shall be met, subject to modifications and exceptions approved by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee:

(i) Nonparticipating providers (or the Beneficiaries or active duty, Selected Reserve or Individual Ready Reserve members for unassigned claims) shall be reimbursed at the lesser of the provider's actual charge: Or the network maximum allowable charge for similar services for that same locality (region) or state, whichever is lower, subject to the exception listed in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, less any cost-share amount due for authorized services. The network maximum allowable charge is the maximum negotiated fee between the dental contractor and any TDP participating provider for similar services covered by the dental plan in that same locality (region) or state.

(ii) Participating providers shall be reimbursed in accordance with the contractor's network agreements, less any cost-share amount due for authorized services.
