
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 47 - ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE FOR CIVILIAN OR CONTRACTUAL GROUPS
###### ยง 47.4 Policy.
####### Eligibility for consideration.

(a)To be eligible to apply for consideration under Public Law 95-202 and this part, a group must:

(1) Have been similarly situated to the Women's Air Forces Service Pilots of World War II.

(2) Have rendered service to the United States in what was considered civilian employment with the U.S. Armed Forces either through formal Civil Service hiring or less formal hiring if the engagement was created under the exigencies of war, or as the result of a contract with the U.S. Government to provide direct support to the U.S. Armed Forces.

(3) Have rendered that service during a period of armed conflict.

(4) Consist of living persons to whom VA benefits can accrue.

(5) Not have already received benefits from the Federal Government for the service in question.

(b) A determination of AD service that is considered to be equivalent to active military service is made on the extent to which the group was under the control of the U.S. Armed Forces in support of a military operation or mission during an armed conflict. The extent of control exerted over the group must be similar to that exerted over military personnel and shall be determined by, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
