
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### B,4

() Cost outliers in children's hospitals for neonatal services. Any discharge for services in a children's hospital or for neonatal services which has standardized costs that exceed a threshold of the greater of two times the DRG-based amount or $13,500 shall qualify as a cost outlier. The standardized costs shall be calculated by multiplying the total charges by the factor described in paragraph (a)(1) (iii) (D) () of this section (adjusted to include average capital and direct medical education costs) and adjusting this amount for indirect medical education costs. Cost outliers for services in children's hospitals and for neonatal services shall be reimbursed the DRG-based amount plus a percentage (as established for the Medicare Prospective Payment System) of all costs exceeding the threshold. Effective with admissions occurring on or after October 1, 1998, standardized costs are no longer adjusted for indirect medical education costs. In addition, CHAMPUS will calculate the outlier payments that would have occurred at each of the 59 Children's hospitals under the FY99 outlier policy for all cases that would have been outliers under the FY94 policies using the most accurate data available in September 1998. A ratio will be calculated which equals the level of outlier payments that would have been made under the FY94 outlier policies and the outlier payments that would be made if the FY99 outlier policies had applied to each of these potential outlier cases for these hospitals. The ratio will be calculated across all outlier claims for the 59 hospitals and will not be hospital specific. The ratio will be used to increase cost outlier payments in FY 1999 and FY 2000, unless the hospital has a negotiated agreement with a managed care support contractor which would affect this payment. For hospitals with managed care support agreements which affect these payments, CHAMPUS will apply these payments if the increased payments would be consistent with the agreements. In FY 2000 the ratio of outlier payments (long stay and cost) that would have occurred under the FY 94 policy and actual cost outlier payments made under the FY 99 policy will be recalculated. If the ratio has changed significantly, the ratio will be revised for use in FY 2001 and thereafter. In FY 2002, the actual cost outlier cases in FY 2000 and 2001 will be reexamined. The ratio of outlier payments that would have occurred under the FY94 policy and the actual cost outlier payments made under the FY 2000 and FY 2001 policies. If the ratio has changed significantly, the ratio will be revised for use in FY 2003.
