
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Reimbursement for inpatient services provided by a CAH.,i.e.,

(3)(i) For admissions on or after December 1, 2009, inpatient services provided by a CAH, other than services provided in psychiatric and rehabilitation distinct part units, shall be reimbursed at allowable cost (101 percent of reasonable cost) under procedures, guidelines, and instructions issued by the Director, DHA, or designee. This does not include any costs of physicians' services or other professional services provided to CAH inpatients. Inpatient services provided in psychiatric distinct part units would be subject to the TRICARE mental health payment system. Inpatient services provided in rehabilitation distinct part units would be subject to billed charges. Upon implementation of TRICARE's IRF PPS, inpatient services provided in rehabilitation distinct part units would be subject to the TRICARE IRF PPS methodology in paragraph (a)(10) of this section.

(ii) The percentage amount stated in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is subject to possible upward adjustment based on a inpatient GTMCPA for TRICARE network hospitals deemed essential for military readiness and support during contingency operations under paragraph (a)(8) of this section.

(4) The allowable cost for authorized care in all hospitals not subject to the TRICARE DRG-based payment system, the TRICARE mental health per-diem system, the TRICARE reasonable cost method for CAHs, the TRICARE reimbursement rules for SCHs, the TRICARE LTCH-PPS, or the TRICARE IRF PPS shall be determined on the basis of billed charges or set rates.

(i) The actual charge for such service made to the general public; or

(ii) The allowed charge applicable to the policyholders or subscribers of the CHAMPUS fiscal intermediary for comparable services under comparable circumstances, when extended to CHAMPUS beneficiaries by consent or agreement; or

(iii) The allowed charge applicable to the citizens of the community or state as established by local or state regulatory authority, excluding title XIX of the Social Security Act or other welfare program, when extended to CHAMPUS beneficiaries by consent or agreement.
