
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Reimbursement for inpatient services provided by an SCH.

(7)(i) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1079(j)(2), TRICARE payment methods for institutional care shall be determined, to the extent practicable, in accordance with the same reimbursement rules as those that apply to payments to providers of services of the same type under Medicare. TRICARE's SCH reimbursements approximate Medicare's for SCHs. Inpatient services provided by an SCH, other than services provided in psychiatric and rehabilitation distinct part units, shall be reimbursed through a two-step process.

(ii) The first step referred to in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section will be to calculate the TRICARE allowable cost by multiplying the applicable TRICARE percentage by the billed charge amount on each institutional inpatient claim. The applicable TRICARE percentage is the greater of: the SCH's most recently available cost-to-charge ratio (CCR) from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' (CMS') inpatient Provider Specific File (after the ratio has been converted to a percentage), or the TRICARE allowed-to-billed ratio, defined as the ratio of the TRICARE allowed amounts (including discounts) to the amount of billed charges for TRICARE inpatient admissions at the SCH in FY 2012 (after it has been converted to a percentage). The TRICARE allowed-to-billed ratio in FY 2012 shall be reduced as follows (after the ratio has been converted to a percentage):

(A) In the first year of implementation, 10 percentage points for network SCHs and 15 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(B) In the second year of implementation, 20 percentage points for network SCHs and 30 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(C) In the third year of implementation, 30 percentage points for network SCHs and 45 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(D) In the fourth year of implementation, 40 percentage points for network SCHs and 60 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(E) In the fifth year of implementation, 50 percentage points for network SCHs and 75 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(F) In the sixth year of implementation, 60 percentage points for network SCHs and 90 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(G) In the seventh year of implementation, 70 percentage points for network SCHs and 100 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(H) In the eighth year of implementation, 80 percentage points for network SCHs and 100 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(I) In the ninth year of implementation, 90 percentage points for network SCHs and 100 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(J) In the tenth year of implementation, 100 percentage points for network SCHs and 100 percentage points for non-network SCHs.

(iii) The second step referred to in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section is a year-end adjustment. The year-end adjustment will compare the aggregate allowable costs over a 12-month period under paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section to the aggregate amount that would have been allowed for the same care using the TRICARE DRG-method (under paragraph (a)(1) of this section). In the event that the DRG method amount is the greater, the year-end adjustment will be the amount by which it exceeds the aggregate allowable costs. In addition, the year-end adjustment also may incorporate a possible upward adjustment for inpatient services based on a GTMCPA for TRICARE network hospitals under paragraph (a)(8) of this section.

(iv) At the end of an SCH's transition period, when the SCH reaches its Medicare CCR, a special allowable cost shall be applicable for discharges that group to inpatient nursery and labor/delivery DRGs. For these discharges, instead of using the percentage of the SCH's Medicare cost-to-charge ratio (as described in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section), the percentage will be 130 percent of the Medicare CCR.

(v) The SCH reimbursement provisions of paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section do not apply to any costs of physician services or other professional services provided to SCH inpatients (which are subject to individual provider payment provisions of this section), inpatient services provided in psychiatric distinct part units (which are subject to the CHAMPUS mental health per-diem payment system), or inpatient services provided in rehabilitation distinct part units (which are reimbursed on the basis of billed charges or set rates).

(vi) The SCH payment system under this paragraph (a)(7) applies to hospitals classified by CMS as Essential Access Community Hospitals (EACHs).

(vii) The SCH payment system under this paragraph (a)(7) does not apply to hospitals in States that are paid by Medicare and TRICARE under a cost containment waiver.
