
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Reimbursement for inpatient services provided by a Long Term Care Hospital (LTCH).

(9)(i) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1079(i)(2), TRICARE payment methods for institutional care shall be determined, to the extent practicable, in accordance with the same reimbursement rules as those that apply to payments to providers of services of the same type under Medicare. The TRICARE-LTC-DRG reimbursement methodology shall be in accordance with Medicare's Medicare Severity Long Term Care Diagnosis Related Groups (MS-LTC-DRGs) as found in regulation at 42 CFR part 412, subpart O. Inpatient services provided in hospitals subject to the Medicare LTCH Prospective Payment System (PPS) and classified as LTCHs and also as specified in 42 CFR parts 412 and 413 will be paid in accordance with the provisions outlined in sections 1886(d)(1)(B)(IV) and 1886(m)(6) of the Social Security Act and its implementing Medicare regulation (42 CFR parts 412, 413, and 170) to the extent practicable. Under the above governing provisions, TRICARE will recognize, to the extent practicable, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1079(i)(2), Medicare's LTCH PPS methodology to include the relative weights, inpatient operating and capital costs of furnishing covered services (including routine and ancillary services), interrupted stay policy, short-stay and high cost outlier payments, site-neutral payments, wage adjustments for variations in labor-related costs across geographical regions, cost-of-living adjustments, payment adjustments associated with the quality reporting program, method of payment for preadmission services, and updates to the system. TRICARE will not be adopting Medicare's 25 percent threshold payment adjustment.

(ii) Implementation of the TRICARE LTCH PPS will include a gradual transition to full implementation of the Medicare LTCH PPS rates as follows:

(A) For the first 12 months following implementation, the TRICARE LTCH PPS allowable cost will be 135 percent of Medicare LTCH PPS amounts.

(B) For the second 12 months of implementation, TRICARE LTCH PPS allowable cost will be 115 percent of the Medicare LTCH PPS amounts.

(C) For the third 12 months of implementation, and subsequent years, TRICARE LTCH PPS allowable cost will be 100 percent of the Medicare LTCH PPS amounts.
