
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Reimbursement for inpatient services provided by Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (IRF).

(10)(i) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1079(i)(2), TRICARE payment methods for institutional care shall be determined to the extent practicable, in accordance with the same reimbursement rules as those that apply to payments to providers of services of the same type under Medicare. The TRICARE IRF PPS reimbursement methodology shall be in accordance with Medicare's IRF PPS as found in 42 CFR part 412. Inpatient services provided in IRFs subject to the Medicare IRF prospective payment system (PPS) and classified as IRFs and also as specified in 42 CFR 412.604 will be paid in accordance with the provisions outlined in section 1886(j) of the Social Security Act and its implementing Medicare regulation found at 42 CFR part 412, subpart P to the extent practicable. Under the above governing provisions, TRICARE will recognize, to the extent practicable, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1079(i)(2), Medicare's IRF PPS methodology to include the relative weights, payment rates covering all operating and capitals costs of furnishing rehabilitative services adjusted for wage variations in labor-related costs across geographical regions, adjustments for the 60 percent compliance threshold, teaching adjustment, rural adjustment, high-cost outlier payments, low income payment adjustment, payment adjustments associated with the quality reporting program, and updates to the system.

(ii) Implementation of the TRICARE IRF PPS will include a gradual transition to full implementation of the Medicare IRF PPS rates as follows:

(A) For the first 12 months of implementation, the TRICARE IRF PPS allowable cost will be 135 percent of Medicare IRF PPS amounts.

(B) For the second 12 months of implementation, the TRICARE IRF PPS allowable cost will be 115 percent of the Medicare IRF PPS amounts.

(C) For the third 12 months of implementation, and subsequent years, the TRICARE IRF PPS allowable cost will be 100 percent of the Medicare IRF PPS amounts.

(iii) The IRF PPS allowable cost in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section may be supplemented by an inpatient general temporary military contingency payment adjustment (GTMCPA) for TRICARE authorized IRFs.

(A) This is a year-end discretionary, temporary adjustment that the Director, DHA (or designee) may approve based on the following criteria:
