
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Reimbursement of Freestanding End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) facilities.

(c)(1) This paragraph (c)(1) establishes payment methods for dialysis provided by TRICARE authorized freestanding ESRD facilities. TRICARE shall reimburse a single, flat, per-session fee to TRICARE authorized freestanding ESRD facilities rendering hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis for treatment of ESRD or AKI. The flat, per-session fee will apply to renal dialysis services furnished in the ESRD facility or in a patient's home. All renal dialysis items and services furnished in the ESRD facility or in a patient's home are included in the flat per-session rate, except for those items and services listed in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Services included in the flat per-session rate must be furnished by an authorized TRICARE ESRD institutional provider:

(A) Institutional charges (e.g., charges for facility use, use or treatment rooms, and general nursing services);

(B) Routine laboratory services related to the dialysis session;

(C) Pharmaceuticals and supplies related to the dialysis;

(D) Home dialysis support services identified at 42 CFR 494.100;

(E) Purchase and delivery of all necessary home dialysis supplies; and

(F) Dialysis training for days 1-120.

(ii) Services which may be billed separately:

(A) Evaluation and management services provided by authorized individual professional providers. These services will continue to be reimbursed using existing reimbursement systems (e.g., CMAC).

(B) Drugs, supplies, and devices listed by Medicare as eligible for Transitional Drug Add-on Payment Adjustment and Transitional Add-on Payment Adjustment for New and Innovative Equipment and Supplies under the Medicare ESRD PPS. These services will continue to be reimbursed using existing reimbursement systems (e.g., CMAC).

(C) Professional services, supplies, and pharmaceuticals unrelated to dialysis care (e.g., if a flu shot is administered at the same time as dialysis treatment). These services will continue to be reimbursed using existing reimbursement systems (e.g., CMAC).

(iii) Establishment of the flat rate:
