
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Reimbursement of Birthing Centers.

(e)(1) Reimbursement for maternity care and childbirth services furnished by an authorized birthing center shall be limited to the lower of the CHAMPUS established all-inclusive rate or the center's most-favored all-inclusive rate.

(2) The all-inclusive rate shall include the following to the extent that they are usually associated with a normal pregnancy and childbirth: Laboratory studies, prenatal management, labor management, delivery, post-partum management, newborn care, birth assistant, certified nurse-midwife professional services, physician professional services, and the use of the facility.

(3) The CHAMPUS established all-inclusive rate is equal to the sum of the CHAMPUS area prevailing professional charge for total obstetrical care for a normal pregnancy and delivery and the sum of the average CHAMPUS allowable institutional charges for supplies, laboratory, and delivery room for a hospital inpatient normal delivery. The CHAMPUS established all-inclusive rate areas will coincide with those established for prevailing professional charges and will be updated concurrently with the CHAMPUS area prevailing professional charge database.

(4) Extraordinary maternity care services, when otherwise authorized, may be reimbursed at the lesser of the billed charge or the CHAMPUS allowable charge.

(5) Reimbursement for an incomplete course of care will be limited to claims for professional services and tests where the beneficiary has been screened but rejected for admission into the birthing center program, or where the woman has been admitted but is discharged from the birthing center program prior to delivery, adjudicated as individual professional services and items.

(6) The beneficiary's share of the total reimbursement to a birthing center is limited to the cost-share amount plus the amount billed for non-covered services and supplies.
