
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Reimbursement of Residential Treatment Centers.

(f)The CHAMPUS rate is the per diem rate that CHAMPUS will authorize for all mental health services rendered to a patient and the patient's family as part of the total treatment plan submitted by a CHAMPUS-approved RTC, and approved by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee.

(1) The all-inclusive per diem rate for RTCs operating or participating in CHAMPUS during the base period of July 1, 1987, through June 30, 1988, will be the lowest of the following conditions:

(i) The CHAMPUS rate paid to the RTC for all-inclusive services as of June 30, 1988, adjusted by the Consumer Price Index-Urban (CPI-U) for medical care as determined applicable by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee; or

(ii) The per diem rate accepted by the RTC from any other agency or organization (public or private) that is high enough to cover one-third of the total patient days during the 12-month period ending June 30, 1988, adjusted by the CPI-U; or

(iii) An OCHAMPUS determined capped per diem amount not to exceed the 80th percentile of all established CHAMPUS RTC rates nationally, weighted by total CHAMPUS days provided at each rate during the base period discussed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(2) The all-inclusive per diem rates for RTCs which began operation after June 30, 1988, or began operation before July 1, 1988, but had less than 6 months of operation by June 30, 1988, will be calculated based on the lower of the per diem rate accepted by the RTC that is high enough to cover one-third of the total patient days during its first 6 to 12 consecutive months of operation, or the CHAMPUS determined capped amount. Rates for RTCs beginning operation prior to July 1, 1988, will be adjusted by an appropriate CPI-U inflation factor for the period ending June 30, 1988. A period of less than 12 months will be used only when the RTC has been in operation for less than 12 months. Once a full 12 months is available, the rate will be recalculated.

(3) For care on or after April 6, 1995, the per diem amount may not exceed a cap of the 70th percentile of all established Federal fiscal year 1994 RTC rates nationally, weighted by total CHAMPUS days provided at each rate during the first half of Federal fiscal year 1994, and updated to FY95. For Federal fiscal years 1996 and 1997, the cap shall remain unchanged. For Federal fiscal years after fiscal year 1997, the cap shall be adjusted by the Medicare update factor for hospitals and units exempt from the Medicare prospective payment system.

(4) All educational costs, whether they include routine education or special education costs, are excluded from reimbursement except when appropriate education is not available from, or not payable by, a cognizant public entity.

(i) The RTC shall exclude educational costs from its daily costs.

(ii) The RTC's accounting system must be adequate to assure CHAMPUS is not billed for educational costs.

(iii) The RTC may request payment of educational costs on an individual case basis from the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, when appropriate education is not available from, or not payable by, a cognizant public entity. To qualify for reimbursement of educational costs in individual cases, the RTC shall comply with the application procedures established by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) As part of its admission procedures, the RTC must counsel and assist the beneficiary and the beneficiary's family in the necessary procedures for assuring their rights to a free and appropriate public education.

(B) The RTC must document any reasons why an individual beneficiary cannot attend public educational facilities and, in such a case, why alternative educational arrangements have not been provided by the cognizant public entity.

(C) If reimbursement of educational costs is approved for an individual beneficiary by the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee, such educational costs shall be shown separately from the RTC's daily costs on the CHAMPUS claim. The amount paid shall not exceed the RTC's most-favorable rate to any other patient, agency, or organization for special or general educational services whichever is appropriate.

(D) If the RTC fails to request CHAMPUS approval of the educational costs on an individual case, the RTC agrees not to bill the beneficiary or the beneficiary's family for any amounts disallowed by CHAMPUS. Requests for payment of educational costs must be referred to the Director, OCHAMPUS, or designee for review and a determination of the applicability of CHAMPUS benefits.

(5) Subject to the applicable RTC cap, adjustments to the RTC rates may be made annually.

(i) For Federal fiscal years through 1995, the adjustment shall be based on the Consumer Price Index-Urban (CPI-U) for medical care as determined applicable by the Director, OCHAMPUS.

(ii) For purposes of rates for Federal fiscal years 1996 and 1997:

(A) For any RTC whose 1995 rate was at or above the thirtieth percentile of all established Federal fiscal year 1995 RTC rates normally, weighted by total CHAMPUS days provided at each rate during the first half of Federal fiscal year 1994, that rate shall remain in effect, with no additional update, throughout fiscal years 1996 and 1997; and

(B) For any RTC whose 1995 rate was below the 30th percentile level determined under paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(A) of this section, the rate shall be adjusted by the lesser of: the CPI-U for medical care, or the amount that brings the rate up to that 30th percentile level.

(iii) For subsequent Federal fiscal years after fiscal year 1997, RTC rates shall be updated by the Medicare update factor for hospitals and units exempt from the Medicare prospective payment system.

(6) For care provided on or after July 1, 1995, CHAMPUS will not pay for days in which the patient is absent on leave from the RTC. The RTC must identify these days when claiming reimbursement.
