
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Cap amount.

(5)Each CHAMPUS-approved hospice program will be subject to a cap on aggregate CHAMPUS payments from November 1 through October 31 of each year, hereafter known as "the cap period."

(i) The cap amount will be adjusted annually by the percent of increase or decrease in the medical expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (CPI-U).

(ii) The aggregate cap amount (i.e., the statutory cap amount times the number of CHAMPUS beneficiaries electing hospice care during the cap period) will be compared with total actual CHAMPUS payments made during the same cap period.

(iii) Payments in excess of the cap amount must be refunded by the hospice program. The adjusted cap amount will be obtained from the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) prior to the end of each cap period.

(iv) Calculation of the cap amount for a hospice which has not participated in the program for an entire cap year (November 1 through October 31) will be based on a period of at least 12 months but no more than 23 months. For example, the first cap period for a hospice entering the program on October 1, 1994, would run from October 1, 1994 through October 31, 1995. Similarly, the first cap period for hospice providers entering the program after November 1, 1993 but before November 1, 1994 would end October 31, 1995.
