
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Inpatient limitation.

(6)During the 12-month period beginning November 1 of each year and ending October 31, the aggregate number of inpatient days, both for general inpatient care and respite care, may not exceed 20 percent of the aggregate total number of days of hospice care provided to all CHAMPUS beneficiaries during the same period.

(i) If the number of days of inpatient care furnished to CHAMPUS beneficiaries exceeds 20 percent of the total days of hospice care to CHAMPUS beneficiaries, the total payment for inpatient care is determined follows:

(A) Calculate the ratio of the maximum number of allowable inpatient days of the actual number of inpatient care days furnished by the hospice to Medicare patients.

(B) Multiply this ratio by the total reimbursement for inpatient care made by the CHAMPUS contractor.

(C) Multiply the number of actual inpatient days in excess of the limitation by the routine home care rate.

(D) Add the amounts calculated in paragraphs (g)(6)(i) (B) and (C) of this section.

(ii) Compare the total payment for inpatient care calculated in paragraph (g)(6)(i)(D) of this section to actual payments made to the hospice for inpatient care during the cap period.

(iii) Payments in excess of the inpatient limitation must be refunded by the hospice program.
