
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Hospice reporting responsibilities.

(7)The hospice is responsible for reporting the following data within 30 days after the end of the cap period:

(i) Total reimbursement received and receivable for services furnished CHAMPUS beneficiaries during the cap period, including physician's services not of an administrative or general supervisory nature.

(ii) Total reimbursement received and receivable for general inpatient care and inpatient respite care furnished to CHAMPUS beneficiaries during the cap period.

(iii) Total number of inpatient days furnished to CHAMPUS hospice patients (both general inpatient and inpatient respite days) during the cap period.

(iv) Total number of CHAMPUS hospice days (both inpatient and home care) during the cap period.

(v) Total number of beneficiaries electing hospice care. The following rules must be adhered to by the hospice in determining the number of CHAMPUS beneficiaries who have elected hospice care during the period:

(A) The beneficiary must not have been counted previously in either another hospice's cap or another reporting year.

(B) The beneficiary must file an initial election statement during the period beginning September 28 of the previous cap year through September 27 of the current cap year in order to be counted as an electing CHAMPUS beneficiary during the current cap year.

(C) Once a beneficiary has been included in the calculation of a hospice cap amount, he or she may not be included in the cap for that hospice again, even if the number of covered days in a subsequent reporting period exceeds that of the period where the beneficiary was included.

(D) There will be proportional application of the cap amount when a beneficiary elects to receive hospice benefits from two or more different CHAMPUS-certified hospices. A calculation must be made to determine the percentage of the patient's length of stay in each hospice relative to the total length of hospice stay.
