
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Beneficiary cost-sharing.,may be

(9)There are no deductibles under the CHAMPUS hospice benefit. CHAMPUS pays the full cost of all covered services for the terminal illness, except for small cost-share amounts whichcollected by the individual hospice for outpatient drugs and biologicals and inpatient respite care.

(i) The patient is responsible for 5 percent of the cost of outpatient drugs or $5 toward each prescription, whichever is less. Additionally, the cost of prescription drugs (drugs or biologicals) may not exceed that which a prudent buyer would pay in similar circumstances; that is, a buyer who refuses to pay more than the going price for an item or service and also seeks to economize by minimizing costs.

(ii) For inpatient respite care, the cost-share for each respite care day is equal to 5 percent of the amount CHAMPUS has estimated to be the cost of respite care, after adjusting the national rate for local wage differences.

(iii) The amount of the individual cost-share liability for respite care during a hospice cost-share period may not exceed the Medicare inpatient hospital deductible applicable for the year in which the hospice cost-share period began. The individual hospice cost-share period begins on the first day an election is in effect for the beneficiary and ends with the close of the first period of 14 consecutive days on each of which an election is not in effect for the beneficiary.
