
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Outlier payment.

(5)Outlier payments are allowed in addition to regular 60-day episode payments for beneficiaries generating excessively high treatment costs. The following methodology is used for calculation of the outlier payment:

(i) TRICARE makes an outlier payment for an episode whose estimated cost exceeds a threshold amount for each case-mix group.

(ii) The outlier threshold for each case-mix group is the episode payment amount for that group, the PEP adjustment amount for the episode or the total significant change in condition adjustment amount for the episode plus a fixed dollar loss amount that is the same for all case-mix groups.

(iii) The outlier payment is a proportion of the amount of estimated cost beyond the threshold.

(iv) TRICARE imputes the cost for each episode by multiplying the national per-visit amount of each discipline by the number of visits in the discipline and computing the total imputed cost for all disciplines.

(v) The fixed dollar loss amount and the loss sharing proportion are chosen so that the estimated total outlier payment is no more than the predetermined percentage of total payment under the home health PPS as set by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS).
