
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### 3,Waiver based on other evidence that adequate access to care would be impaired.

()The Director, OCHAMPUS may waive a reduction that would otherwise occur (or restore a reduction that was already taken) if the Director determines that available evidence shows that the reduction would impair adequate access. For this purpose, such evidence may include consideration of the number of providers in the locality who provide the affected services, the number of such providers who are CHAMPUS Participating Providers, the number of CHAMPUS beneficiaries in the area, and other relevant factors. Providers or beneficiaries in a locality may submit to the Director, OCHAMPUS a petition, together with appropriate documentation regarding relevant factors, for a determination that adequate access would be impaired. The Director, OCHAMPUS will consider and respond to all such petitions. Petitions may be filed at any time. Any petition received by the date which is 120 days prior to the implementation of a recalculation of CMACs will be assured of consideration prior to that implementation. The Director, OCHAMPUS may establish procedures for handling petitions. A decision by the Director to waive or not waive a reduction is not subject to the appeal and hearing procedures of ยง 199.10.
