
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.14 Provider reimbursement methods.
####### Clinical laboratory services.

(viii)The allowable charge for clinical diagnostic laboratory test services shall be calculated in the same manner as allowable charges for other individual health care providers are calculated pursuant to paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (j)(1)(iv) of this section, with the following exceptions and clarifications.

(A) The calculation of national prevailing charge levels, national appropriate charge levels and national CMACs for laboratory service shall begin in calendar year 1993. For purposes of the 1993 calculation, the prior year's national appropriate charge level or national prevailing charge level shall be the level that does not exceed the amount equivalent to the 80th percentile of billed charges made for similar services during the period July 1, 1991, through June 30, 1992 (referred to in this paragraph (j)(1)(viii) of this section as the "base period").

(B) For purposes of comparison to Medicare allowable payment amounts pursuant to paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section, the Medicare national laboratory payment limitation amounts shall be used.

(C) For purposes of establishing laboratory service local CMACs pursuant to paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section, the adjustment factor shall equal the ratio of the local average charge (standardized for the distribution of clinical laboratory services) to the national average charge for all clinical laboratory services during the base period.

(D) For purposes of a special locality-based phase-in provision similar to that established by paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(B) of this section, the CMAC in a locality will not be less than 85 percent of the maximum charge level in effect for that locality during the base period.

(ix) The allowable charge for physician assistant services other than assistant-at-surgery shall be at the same percentage, used by Medicare, of the allowable charge for a comparable service rendered by a physician performing the service in a similar location. For cases in which the physician assistant and the physician perform component services of a procedure other than assistant-at-surgery (e.g., home, office, or hospital visit), the combined allowable charge for the procedure may not exceed the allowable charge for the procedure rendered by a physician alone. The allowable charge for physician assistant services performed as an assistant-at-surgery shall be at the same percentage, used by Medicare, of the allowable charge for a physician serving as an assistant surgeon when authorized as CHAMPUS benefits in accordance with the provisions of ยง 199.4(c)(3)(iii). Physician assistant services must be billed through the employing physician who must be an authorized CHAMPUS provider.

(x) A charge that exceeds the CHAMPUS Maximum Allowable Charge can be determined to be allowable only when unusual circumstances or medical complications justify the higher charge. The allowable charge may not exceed the billed charge under any circumstances.
