
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.15 Quality and utilization review peer review organization program.
####### Preauthorization and other utilization review procedures,In general.

(4)-(i)all health care services for which payment is sought under TRICARE are subject to review for appropriateness of utilization as determined by the Director, TRICARE Management Activity, or a designee.

(A) The procedures for this review may be prospective (before the care is provided), concurrent (while the care is in process), or retrospective (after the care has been provided). Regardless of the procedures of this utilization review, the same generally accepted standards, norms and criteria for evaluating the medical necessity, appropriateness and reasonableness of the care involved shall apply. The Director, TRICARE Management Activity, or a designee, shall establish procedures for conducting reviews, including types of health care services for which preauthorization or concurrent review shall be required. Preauthorization or concurrent review may be required for categories of health care services. Except where required by law, the categories of health care services for which preauthorization or concurrent review is required may vary in different geographical locations or for different types of providers.

(B) For healthcare services provided under TRICARE contracts entered into by the Department of Defense after October 30, 2000, medical necessity preauthorization will not be required for referrals for specialty consultation appointment services requested by primary care providers or specialty providers when referring TRICARE Prime beneficiaries for specialty consultation appointment services within the TRICARE contractor's network. However, the lack of medical necessity preauthorization requirements for consultative appointment services does not mean that non-emergent admissions or invasive diagnostic or therapeutic procedures which in and of themselves constitute categories of health care services related to, but beyond the level of the consultation appointment service, are not subject to medical necessity prior authorization. In fact many such health care services may continue to require medical necessity prior authorization as determined by the Director, TRICARE Management Activity, or a designee. TRICARE Prime beneficiaries are also required to obtain preauthorization before seeking health care services from a non-network provider.
