
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.15 Quality and utilization review peer review organization program.
####### Preauthorization procedures.

(ii)With respect to categories of health care (inpatient or outpatient) for which preauthorization is required, the following procedures shall apply:

(A) The requirement for preauthorization shall be widely publicized to beneficiaries and providers.

(B) All requests for preauthorization shall be responded to in writing. Notification of approval or denial shall be sent to the beneficiary. Approvals shall specify the health care services and supplies approved and identify any special limits or further requirements applicable to the particular case.

(C) An approved preauthorization shall state the number of days, appropriate for the type of care involved, for which it is valid. In general, preauthorizations will be valid for 30 days. If the services or supplies are not obtained within the number of days specified, a new preauthorization request is required. For organ and stem cell transplants, the preauthorization shall remain in effect as long as the beneficiary continues to meet the specific transplant criteria set forth in the TRICARE/CHAMPUS Policy Manual, or until the approved transplant occurs.

(D) For healthcare services provided under TRICARE contracts entered into by the Department of Defense after October 30, 2000, medical necessity preauthorization for specialty consultation appointment services within the TRICARE contractor's network will not be required. However, the Director, TRICARE Management Activity, or designee, may continue to require or waive medical necessity prior (or pre) authorization for other categories of other health care services based on best business practice.
