
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.15 Quality and utilization review peer review organization program.
####### Hospital cooperation.

(c)All hospitals which participate in CHAMPUS and submit CHAMPUS claims are required to provide all information necessary for CHAMPUS to properly process the claims. In order for CHAMPUS to be assured that services for which claims are submitted meet quality of care standards, hospitals are required to provide the Peer Review Organization (PRO) responsible for quality review with all the information, within timeframes to be established by OCHAMPUS, necessary to perform the review functions required by this paragraph. Additionally, all participating hospitals shall provide CHAMPUS beneficiaries, upon admission, with information about the admission and quality review system including their appeal rights. A hospital which does not cooperate in this activity shall be subject to termination as a CHAMPUS-authorized provider.

(1) Documentation that the beneficiary has received the required information about the CHAMPUS PRO program must be maintained in the same manner as is the notice required for the Medicare program by 42 CFR 466.78(b).

(2) The physician acknowledgment required for Medicare under 42 CFR 412.46 is also required for CHAMPUS as a condition for payment and may be satisfied by the same statement as required for Medicare, with substitution or addition of "CHAMPUS" when the word "Medicare" is used.

(3) Participating hospitals must execute a memorandum of understanding with the PRO providing appropriate procedures for implementation of the PRO program.

(4) Participating hospitals may not charge a CHAMPUS beneficiary for inpatient hospital services excluded on the basis of ยง 199.4(g)(1) (not medically necessary), ยง 199.4(g)(3) (inappropriate level), or ยง 199.4(g)(7) (custodial care) unless all of the conditions established by 42 CFR 412.42(c) with respect to Medicare beneficiaries have been met with respect to the CHAMPUS beneficiary. In such cases in which the patient requests a PRO review while the patient is still an inpatient in the hospital, the hospital shall provide to the PRO the records required for the review by the close of business of the day the patient requests review, if such request was made before noon. If the hospital fails to provide the records by the close of business, that day and any subsequent working day during which the hospital continues to fail to provide the records shall not be counted for purposes of the two-day period of 42 CFR 412.42(c)(3)(ii).
