
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.15 Quality and utilization review peer review organization program.
####### Special rules and procedures.

(ii)With respect to multi-function PROs, the Director, OCHAMPUS may establish special procedures to assure the independence of the Quality and Utilization Review Peer Review Organization program and otherwise advance the objectives of the program. These special rules and procedures include, but are not limited to, the following:

(A) A reconsidered determination that would be final in cases involving sole-function PROs under paragraph (i)(2) of this section will not be final in connection with multi-function PROs. Rather, in such cases (other than any case which is appealable under paragraph (i)(3) of this section), an opportunity for a second reconsideration shall be provided. The second reconsideration will be provided by OCHAMPUS or another contractor independent of the multi-function PRO that performed the review. The second reconsideration may not be further appealed by the provider.

(B) Procedures established by paragraphs (g) through (m) of this section shall not apply to any action of a multi-function PRO (or employee or other person or entity affiliated with the PRO) carried out in performance of functions other than functions under this section.
