
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 47 - ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE FOR CIVILIAN OR CONTRACTUAL GROUPS
###### Appendix B to Part 47 - The DoD Civilian/Military Service Review Board and the Advisory Panel

1. The board shall consist of a president selected from the Department of the Air Force and one representative each from the OSD, the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Air Force, and the U.S. Coast Guard (when the group claims active Coast Guard service). Each member shall have one vote except that the president shall vote only to break a tie. The board's decision is determined by majority vote. The president and two voting members shall constitute a quorum.

2. The advisory panel shall act as a nonvoting adjunct to the board. It shall consist of historians selected by the Secretaries of the Military Departments and, if required, by the Secretary of Transportation. The respective Military Departments and the DOT shall ensure that the advisory panel is provided with administrative and legal support.

1. The board shall meet in executive session at the call of the president, and shall limit its reviews to the following:

a. Written submissions by an applicant on behalf of a civilian or contractual group. Presentations to the board are not allowed.

b. Written report(s) prepared by the advisory panel.

c. Any other relevant written information available.

d. Factors established in this part for determining AD service.

2. The board shall return to the applicant any application that does not meet the eligibility criteria established in ยง 47.4(a). The board only needs to state the reasons why the group is ineligible for consideration under this part.

3. If the board determines that an application is eligible for consideration under ยง 47.4(a), the board shall provide, to the Secretary of the Air Force, a recommendation on the AD service determination for the group and the rationale for that recommendation that shall include, but not be limited to, a discussion of the factors listed in ยง 47.4.

a. No factors shall be established that require automatic recognition. Neither the board nor the Secretary of the Air Force shall be bound by any method in reaching a decision.

b. Prior group determinations made under Public Law 95-202 do not bind the board or the Secretary of the Air Force. The board and the Secretary of the Air Force fully and impartially shall consider each group on its own merit in relation to the factors listed in section D. of this Directive.
