
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.16 Supplemental Health Care Program for active duty members.
####### Purpose and applicability.

(a)(1) The purpose of this section is to implement, with respect to health care services provided under the supplemental health care program for active duty members of the uniformed services, the provision of 10 U.S.C. 1074(c). This section of law authorizes DoD to establish for the supplemental care program the same payment rules, subject to appropriate modifications, as apply under CHAMPUS.

(2) This section applies to the program, known as the supplemental care program, which provides for the payment by the uniformed services to private sector health care providers for health care services provided to active duty members of the uniformed services. Although not part of CHAMPUS, the supplemental care program is similar to CHAMPUS in that it is a program for the uniformed services to purchase civilian health care services for active duty members. For this reason, the Director, OCHAMPUS assists the uniformed services in the administration of the supplemental care program.

(3) This section applies to all health care services covered by the CHAMPUS. For purposes of this section, health care services ordered by a military treatment facility (MTF) provider for an MTF patient (who is not an active duty member) for whom the MTF provider maintains responsibility are also covered by the supplemental care program and subject to the requirements of this section.
