
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.16 Supplemental Health Care Program for active duty members.
####### Special rules and procedure.

(d)As exceptions to the general rule in paragraph (c) of this section, the special rules and procedures in this section shall govern payment and administration of claims under the supplemental care program. These special rules and procedures are subject to the TRICARE Prime Remote program for active duty service members set forth in paragraph (e) of this section and the waiver authority of paragraph (f) of this section.

(1) There is no patient cost sharing under the supplemental care program. All amounts due to be paid to the provider shall be paid by the program.

(2) Preauthorization by the Uniformed Services of each service is required for the supplemental care program except for services in cases of medical emergency (for which the definition in Sec. 199.2 shall apply) or in cases governed by the TRICARE Prime Remote program for active duty service members set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. It is the responsibility of the active duty members to obtain preauthorization for each service. With respect to each emergency inpatient admission, after such time as the emergency condition is addressed, authorization for any proposed continued stay must be obtained within two working days of admission.

(3) With respect to the filing of claims and similar administrative matters for which this part refers to activities of the CHAMPUS fiscal intermediaries, for purposes of the supplemental care program, responsibilities for claims processing, payment and some other administrative matters may be assigned by the Director, OCHAMPUS to the same fiscal intermediaries, other contractor, or to the nearest military medical treatment facility or medical claims office.

(4) The annual cost pass-throughs for capital and direct medical education costs that are available under the CHAMPUS DRG-based payment system are also available, upon request, under the supplemental care program. To obtain payment include the number of active duty bed days as a separate line item on the annual request to the CHAMPUS fiscal intermediaries.

(5) For providers other than participating providers, the Director, OCHAMPUS may authorize payment in excess of CHAMPUS allowable amounts. No provider may bill an active duty member any amount in excess of the CHAMPUS allowable amount.
