
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### Preventive care services.

(2)Certain preventive care services not normally provided as part of basic program benefits under ยง 199.4 are covered benefits when provided to Prime or Select enrollees by providers in the civilian provider network. Such additional services are authorized under 10 U.S.C. 1097, including preventive care services not part of the entitlement under 10 U.S.C. 1074d and services that would otherwise be excluded under 10 U.S.C. 1079(a)(10). Other authority for such additional services includes section 706 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. The specific set of such services shall be established by the Director and announced annually before the open season enrollment period. Standards for preventive care services shall be developed based on guidelines from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Such standards shall establish a specific schedule, including frequency or age specifications for services that may include, but are not limited to:

(i) Laboratory and imaging tests, including blood lead, rubella, cholesterol, fecal occult blood testing, and mammography;

(ii) Cancer screenings (including cervical, breast, lung, prostate, and colon cancer screenings);

(iii) Immunizations;

(iv) Periodic health promotion and disease prevention exams;

(v) Blood pressure screening;

(vi) Hearing exams;

(vii) Sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy;

(viii) Serologic screening; and

(ix) Appropriate education and counseling services. The exact services offered shall be established under uniform standards established by the Director.
