
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### Resource sharing agreements.

(h)Under the TRICARE program, any military medical treatment facility (MTF) commander may establish resource sharing agreements with the applicable managed care support contractor for the purpose of providing for the sharing of resources between the two parties. Internal resource sharing and external resource sharing agreements are authorized. The provisions of this paragraph (h) shall apply to resource sharing agreements under the TRICARE program.

(1) In connection with internal resource sharing agreements, beneficiary cost sharing requirements shall be the same as those applicable to health care services provided in facilities of the uniformed services.

(2) Under internal resource sharing agreements, the double coverage requirements of ยง 199.8 shall be replaced by the Third Party Collection procedures of 32 CFR part 220, to the extent permissible under such part. In such a case, payments made to a resource sharing agreement provider through the TRICARE managed care support contractor shall be deemed to be payments by the MTF concerned.

(3) Under internal or external resource sharing agreements, the commander of the MTF concerned may authorize the provision of services, pursuant to the agreement, to Medicare-eligible beneficiaries, if such services are not reimbursable by Medicare, and if the commander determines that this will promote the most cost-effective provision of services under the TRICARE program.

(4) Under external resource sharing agreements, there is no cost sharing applicable to services provided by military facility personnel. Cost sharing for non-MTF institutional and related ancillary charges shall be as applicable to services provided under TRICARE Prime or TRICARE Select, as appropriate.
