
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### e.g.,,3,i

(iii) Specialty care outpatient visits. This category applies to outpatient care provided by provider specialties other than those listed under primary care outpatient visits under paragraph (k)(2)(ii) of this section and not specifically included in one of the other categories of care (emergency room visits etc.) under paragraph (k)(2) of this section. This category also includes partial hospitalization services, intensive outpatient treatment, and opioid treatment program services. The per visit fee shall be applied on a per day basis on days services are received, with the exception of opioid treatment program services reimbursed in accordance with ยง 199.14(a)(2)(ix)(A)()() which per visit fee will apply on a weekly basis.

(iv) Emergency room visits.

(v) Urgent care center visits.

(vi) Ambulance services. This is for ground ambulance services.

(vii) Ambulatory surgery. This is for facility-based outpatient ambulatory surgery services.

(viii) Inpatient hospital admissions.

(ix) Skilled nursing facility or rehabilitation facility admissions. This category includes a residential treatment center, or substance use disorder rehabilitation facility residential treatment program.

(x) Durable medical equipment, prosthetic devices, and other authorized supplies.

(xi) Outpatient prescription pharmaceuticals. These are addressed in ยง 199.21.
