
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### Enrollment fee and cost sharing under TRICARE Prime.

(1)(i) For Group A enrollees:

(A) There is no enrollment fee for the active duty family member category.

(B) The retired category enrollment fee in calendar year 2018 is equal to the Prime enrollment fee for fiscal year 2017, indexed to calendar year 2018 and thereafter in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1097. The Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) may exempt survivors of active duty deceased sponsors and medically retired Uniformed Services members and their dependents from future increases in enrollment fees. The Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) may also waive the enrollment fee requirements for Medicare-eligible beneficiaries.

(C) The cost sharing amounts are established annually in connection with the open season enrollment period. An amount is established for each category of care identified in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, taking into account all applicable statutory provisions, including 10 U.S.C. chapter 55. The amount for each category of care may not exceed the amount for Group B as set forth in 10 U.S.C. 1075a.

(D) The catastrophic cap is $1,000 for active duty families and $3,000 for retired category families.

(ii) For Group B TRICARE Prime enrollees, the enrollment fee, catastrophic cap, and cost sharing amounts are as set forth in 10 U.S.C. 1075a. The cost sharing requirements applicable to services not specifically addressed in the table set forth in 10 U.S.C. 1075a(b)(1) shall be determined by the Director, DHA.
