
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### e.g.,

(B) The cost sharing amounts for network care for Group A enrollees are calculated for each category of care described in paragraph (k)(2) of this section by taking into account all applicable statutory provisions, including 10 U.S.C. chapter 55, as if TRICARE Extra and Standard programs were still being implemented. When determined practicable, including efficiency and effectiveness in administration, the amounts established are converted to fixed dollar amounts for each category of care for which a fixed dollar amount is established by 10 U.S.C. 1075. When determined not to be practicable, as in the categories of care including ambulatory surgery, inpatient admissions, and inpatient skilled nursing/rehabilitation admissions, the calculated cost-sharing amounts are not converted to fixed dollar amounts. The fixed dollar amount for each category is set prospectively for each calendar year as the amount (rounded down to the nearest dollar amount) equal to 15% for enrollees in the active duty family beneficiary category or 20% for enrollees in the retired beneficiary category of the projected average allowable payment amount for each category of care during the year, as estimated by the Director. The projected average allowable payment amount for primary care (including urgent care) and specialty care outpatient appointments include payments for ancillary services (laboratory and radiology services) that are provided in connection with the respective outpatient visit. As such, there is no separate cost sharing for these ancillary services.

(C) The cost share for care received from non-network providers is as provided in ยง 199.4.

(D) The annual deductible amount is as provided in 10 U.S.C. 1079 or 1086.

(ii) For Group B TRICARE Select enrollees, the enrollment fee, annual deductible for services received while in an outpatient status, catastrophic cap., and cost sharing amounts are as provided in 10 U.S.C. 1075 and as consistent with this section. The cost sharing requirements applicable to services not specifically addressed in 10 U.S.C. 1075 shall be determined by the Director, DHA.
