
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### Referral and preauthorization requirements.

(2)(i) Under TRICARE Prime there are certain procedures for referral and preauthorization.

(A) For the purpose of this paragraph (n)(2), referral addresses the issue of who will provide authorized health care services. In many cases, Prime beneficiaries will be referred by a primary care manager to a medical department of an MTF if the type of care needed is available at the MTF. In such a case, failure to adhere to that referral will result in the care being subject to point-of-service charges. In other cases, a referral may be to the civilian provider network, and again, point-of-service charges would apply to a failure to follow the referral.

(B) In contrast to referral, preauthorization addresses the issue of whether particular services may be covered by TRICARE, including whether they appear necessary and appropriate in the context of the patient's diagnosis and circumstances. A major purpose of preauthorization is to prevent surprises about coverage determinations, which are sometimes dependent on particular details regarding the patient's condition and circumstances. While TRICARE Prime has referral requirements that do not exist for TRICARE Select, TRICARE Select has some preauthorization requirements that do not exist for TRICARE Prime.

(ii) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (n)(2), a beneficiary enrolled in TRICARE Prime is required to obtain a referral for care through a designated primary care manager (or other authorized care coordinator) prior to obtaining care under the TRICARE program.

(iii) There is no referral requirement under paragraph (n)(2)(i) of this section in the following circumstances:

(A) In emergencies;

(B) For urgent care services for a certain number of visits per year (zero to unlimited), with the number specified by the Director and notice provided in connection with the open season enrollment period preceding the plan year; and

(C) In any other special circumstances identified by the Director, generally with notice provided in connection with the open season enrollment period for the plan year.

(iv) A primary care manager who believes a referral to a specialty care provider is medically necessary and appropriate need not obtain pre-authorization from the managed care support contractor before referring a patient to a network specialty care provider. Such preauthorization is only required with respect to a primary care manager's referral for:

(A) Inpatient hospitalization;

(B) Inpatient care at a skilled nursing facility;

(C) Inpatient care at a rehabilitation facility; and

(D) Inpatient care at a residential treatment facility.

(v) The restrictions in paragraph (n)(2)(iv) of this section on preauthorization requirements do not apply to any preauthorization requirements that are generally applicable under TRICARE, independent of TRICARE Prime referrals, such as:

(A) Under the Pharmacy Benefits Program under 10 U.S.C. 1074g and ยง 199.21.

(B) For laboratory and other ancillary services.

(C) Durable medical equipment.

(vi) The cost-sharing requirement for a beneficiary enrolled in TRICARE Prime who does not obtain a referral for care when it is required, including care from a non-network provider, is as provided in paragraph (l)(1)(iii) of this section concerning point of service care.

(vii) In the case of care for which preauthorization is not required under paragraph (n)(2)(iv) of this section, the Director may authorize a managed care support contractor to offer a voluntary pre-authorization program to enable beneficiaries and providers to confirm covered benefit status and/or medical necessity or to understand the criteria that will be used by the managed care support contractor to adjudicate the claim associated with the proposed care. A network provider may not be required to use such a program with respect to a referral.
