
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### Restrictions on the use of providers.

(3)The requirements of this paragraph (n)(3) shall be applicable to health care utilization under TRICARE Prime, except in cases of emergency care and under point-of-service option (see paragraph (n)(4) of this section).

(i) Prime enrollees must obtain all primary health care from the primary care manager or from another provider to which the enrollee is referred by the primary care manager or otherwise authorized.

(ii) For any necessary specialty care and non-emergent inpatient care, the primary care manager or other authorized individual will assist in making an appropriate referral.

(iii) Though referrals for specialty care are generally the responsibility of the primary care managers, subject to discretion exercised by the TRICARE Regional Directors, and established in regional policy or memoranda of understanding, specialist providers may be permitted to refer patients for additional specialty consultation appointment services within the TRICARE contractor's network without prior authorization by primary care managers.

(iv) The following procedures will apply to health care referrals under TRICARE Prime:

(A) The first priority for referral for specialty care or inpatient care will be to the local MTF (or to any other MTF in which catchment area the enrollee resides).

(B) If the local MTF(s) are unavailable for the services needed, but there is another MTF at which the needed services can be provided, the enrollee may be required to obtain the services at that MTF. However, this requirement will only apply to the extent that the enrollee was informed at the time of (or prior to) enrollment that mandatory referrals might be made to the MTF involved for the service involved.

(C) If the needed services are available within civilian preferred provider network serving the area, the enrollee may be required to obtain the services from a provider within the network. Subject to availability, the enrollee will have the freedom to choose a provider from among those in the network.

(D) If the needed services are not available within the civilian preferred provider network serving the area, the enrollee may be required to obtain the services from a designated civilian provider outside the area. However, this requirement will only apply to the extent that the enrollee was informed at the time of (or prior to) enrollment that mandatory referrals might be made to the provider involved for the service involved (with the provider and service either identified specifically or in connection with some appropriate classification).

(E) In cases in which the needed health care services cannot be provided pursuant to the procedures identified in paragraphs (n)(3)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section, the enrollee will receive authorization to obtain services from a TRICARE-authorized civilian provider(s) of the enrollee's choice not affiliated with the civilian preferred provider network.

(iv) When Prime is operating in non-catchment areas, the requirements in paragraphs (n)(3)(iv)(B) through (E) of this section shall apply.
