
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### i.e.,

(i) They must be TRICARE-authorized providers and TRICARE- participating providers. In addition, a network provider may not require payment from the beneficiary for any excluded or excludable services that the beneficiary received from the network provider (the beneficiary will be held harmless) except as follows:

(A) If the beneficiary did not inform the provider that he or she was a TRICARE beneficiary, the provider may bill the beneficiary for services provided.

(B) If the beneficiary was informed in writing that the specific services were excluded or excludable from TRICARE coverage and the beneficiary agreed in writing, in advance of the services being provided, to pay for the services, the provider may bill the beneficiary.

(ii) All physicians in the preferred provider network must have staff privileges in a hospital accredited by The Joint Commission (TJC) or other accrediting body determined by the Director. This requirement may be waived in any case in which a physician's practice does not include the need for admitting privileges in such a hospital, or in locations where no accredited facility exists. However, in any case in which the requirement is waived, the physician must comply with alternative qualification standards as are established by the Director.

(iii) All preferred providers must agree to follow all quality assurance, utilization management, and patient referral procedures established pursuant to this section, to make available to designated DoD utilization management or quality monitoring contractors medical records and other pertinent records, and to authorize the release of information to MTF Commanders regarding such quality assurance and utilization management activities.

(iv) All preferred network providers must be Medicare participating providers, unless this requirement is waived based on extraordinary circumstances. This requirement that a provider be a Medicare participating provider does not apply to providers who not eligible to be participating providers under Medicare.

(v) The network provider must be available to all TRICARE beneficiaries.

(vi) The provider must agree to accept the same payment rates negotiated for Prime enrollees for any person whose care is reimbursable by the Department of Defense, including, for example, Select participants, supplemental care cases, and beneficiaries from outside the area.

(vii) All preferred providers must meet all other qualification requirements, and agree to comply with all other rules and procedures established for the preferred provider network.

(viii) In locations where TRICARE Prime is not available, a TRICARE provider network will, to the extent practicable, be available for TRICARE Select enrollees. In these locations, the minimal requirements for network participation are those set forth in paragraph (p)(4)(i) of this section. Other requirements of this paragraph (p) will apply unless waived by the Director.
