
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### Preferred provider network establishment.

(q)(1) The any qualified provider method may be used to establish a civilian preferred provider network. Under this method, any TRICARE-authorized provider that meets the qualification standards established by the Director, or designee, may become a part of the preferred provider network. Such standards must be publicly announced and uniformly applied. Also under this method, any provider who meets all applicable qualification standards may not be excluded from the preferred provider network. Qualifications include:

(i) The provider must meet all applicable requirements in paragraph (p)(4) of this section.

(ii) The provider must agree to follow all quality assurance and utilization management procedures established pursuant to this section.

(iii) The provider must be a participating provider under TRICARE for all claims.

(iv) The provider must meet all other qualification requirements, and agree to all other rules and procedures, that are established, publicly announced, and uniformly applies by the Director (or other authorized official).

(v) The provider must sign a preferred provider network agreement covering all applicable requirements. Such agreements will be for a duration of one year, are renewable, and may be canceled by the provider or the Director (or other authorized official) upon appropriate notice to the other party. The Director shall establish an agreement model or other guidelines to promote uniformity in the agreements.

(2) In addition to the above requirements, the Director, or designee, may establish additional categories of preferred providers of high quality/high value that require additional qualifications.
