
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### TRICARE Prime.

(1)The Director may, in conjunction with implementation of the TRICARE program, authorize a special Prime program for command sponsored dependents of active duty members who accompany the members in their assignments in foreign countries. Under this special program, a preferred provider network may be established through contracts or agreements with selected health care providers. Under the network, Prime covered services will be provided to the enrolled covered dependents subject to applicable Prime deductibles, copayments, and point-of-service charges. To the extent practicable, rules and procedures applicable to TRICARE Prime under this section shall apply unless specific exemptions are granted in writing by the Director. The use of this authority by the Director for any particular geographical area will be published on the primary publicly available Internet Web site of the Department and on the publicly available Internet Web site of the managed care support contractor that has established the provider network under the TRICARE program. Published information will include a description of the preferred provider network program and other pertinent information. The Director shall also issue policies, instructions, and guidelines necessary to implement this special program.
