
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.17 TRICARE program.
####### TRICARE Select.

(2)The TRICARE Select option shall be available outside the United States except that a preferred provider network of providers shall only be established in areas where the Director determines that it is economically in the best interest of the Department of Defense. In such a case, the Director shall establish a preferred provider network through contracts or agreements with selected health care providers for eligible beneficiaries to receive covered benefits subject to the enrollment and cost-sharing amounts applicable to the specific category of beneficiary. When an eligible beneficiary, other than a TRICARE for Life beneficiary, receives covered services from an authorized TRICARE non-network provider, including in areas where a preferred provider network has not been established by the Director, the beneficiary shall be subject to cost-sharing amounts applicable to out-of-network care. To the extent practicable, rules and procedures applicable to TRICARE Select under this section shall apply unless specific exemptions are granted in writing by the Director. The use of this authority by the Director to establish a TRICARE preferred provider network for any particular geographical area will be published on the primary publicly available Internet Web site of the Department and on the publicly available Internet Web site of the managed care support contractor that has established the provider network under the TRICARE program. Published information will include a description of the preferred provider network program and other pertinent information. The Director shall also issue policies, instructions, and guidelines necessary to implement this special program.
