
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.20 Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP).
####### Election of coverage.

(5)In order to obtain coverage under the CHCBP, a written election by the eligible beneficiary must be made within a prescribed time period.

(i) In the case of a member discharged or released from active duty or full-time National Guard duty (whether voluntarily or involuntarily), or a RC member formerly eligible for care under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55, the written election shall be submitted to the CHCBP contractor before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the later of:

(A) The date of the discharge or release of the member; or

(B) The date that the period of transitional health care applicable to the member under 10 U.S.C. 1145(a) ends; or

(C) The date the member receives the notification required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(ii) In the case of a child who ceases to meet the requirements for being an unremarried dependent child of a member or former member under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(D) or an unmarried dependent of a member or former member of the uniformed services under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(I), the written election shall be submitted to the CHCBP contractor before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the later of:

(A) The date that the dependent ceases to meet the definition of a dependent under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(D) or 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(I); or

(B) The date that the dependent receives the notification required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section,

(iii) In the case of former spouse of a member or former member, the written election shall be submitted to the CHCBP contractor before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date as of which the former spouse first ceases to meet the requirements for being considered a dependent under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2).

(iv) In the case of an unmarried surviving spouse of a member or former member of the uniformed services who on the day before the death of the member or former member was covered under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55 or 10 U.S.C. 1145(a), the written election shall be submitted to the CHCBP contractor within 60 days of the date of the member or former member's death.

(v) A member of the uniformed services who is eligible for enrollment under paragraph (d)(1) of this section may elect self-only or family coverage. Family members who may be included in such family coverage are the spouse and children of the member.

(vi) All other categories eligible for enrollment under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must elect self-only coverage.
