
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.21 TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits Program.
####### Special rules for best clinical effectiveness.

(3)(i) Under the authority of 10 U.S.C. 1074g(a)(10), the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee may recommend and the Director may, after considering the comments and recommendations of the Beneficiary Advisory Panel, approve special uniform formulary actions to encourage use of pharmaceutical agents that provide the best clinical effectiveness to covered beneficiaries and DoD, including consideration of better care, healthier people, and smarter spending. Such special actions may operate as exceptions to the normal rules and procedures under 10 U.S.C. 1074g(a)(2), (5) and (6) and the related provisions of this section.

(ii) Actions under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section may include a complete or partial exclusion from the pharmacy benefits program of any pharmaceutical agent the Director determines provides very little or no clinical effectiveness relative to similar agents to covered beneficiaries and DoD. A partial exclusion under this paragraph may take the form (as one example) of a limitation on the clinical conditions, diagnoses, or indications for which the pharmaceutical agent may be prescribed. A partial exclusion may be implemented through any means recommended by the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee, including but not limited to preauthorization under paragraph (k) of this section. In the case of a partial exclusion, a pharmaceutical agent may be available on the non-formulary tier of the uniform formulary for limited purposes and for other purposes be excluded.

(iii) Actions under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section may also include giving preferential status to any non-generic pharmaceutical agent of the uniform formulary by treating it for purposes of cost-sharing as a generic product.
