
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.21 TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits Program.
####### Availability of selected over-the-counter (OTC) drugs under the pharmacy benefits program.

(5)Although the pharmacy benefits program generally covers only prescription drugs, in some cases over-the-counter drugs may be covered and may be placed on the uniform formulary.

(i) An OTC drug may be included on the uniform formulary upon the recommendation of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee and approval of the Director, DHA, based on a finding that it is cost-effective and clinically effective, as compared with other drugs in the same therapeutic class of pharmaceutical agents. Clinical need is judged by the criteria found in paragraph (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Cost effectiveness is determined based on criteria found in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(ii) OTC drugs placed on the uniform formulary, in general, will be treated the same as generic drugs on the uniform formulary for purposes of availability in MTF pharmacies, retail pharmacies, and the mail order pharmacy program and other requirements. However, upon the recommendation of the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee and approval of the Director, DHA, the requirement for a prescription may be waived for a particular OTC drug for certain emergency care treatment situations. In addition, a special copayment may be established under paragraph (i)(2)(xii) of this section for OTC drugs specifically used in certain emergency care treatment situations.
