
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.21 TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits Program.
####### Cost-sharing amounts.

(2)Active duty members of the uniformed services do not pay cost-shares or annual deductibles. For other categories of beneficiaries, after applicable annual deductibles are met, cost-sharing amounts prior to October 1, 2016, are set forth in this paragraph (i)(2).

(i) For pharmaceutical agents obtained from a military treatment facility, there is no cost-sharing or annual deductible.

(ii) For pharmaceutical agents obtained from a retail network pharmacy, the cost share will be as provided in 10 U.S.C. 1074g(a)(6), except that there is a $0 cost-share for vaccines/immunizations authorized as preventive care for eligible beneficiaries.

(iii) For formulary and generic pharmaceutical agents obtained from a retail non-network pharmacy, except as provided in paragraph (i)(2)(vi) of this section, there is a 20 percent or $20.00 cost-share (whichever is greater) per prescription for up to a 30-day supply of the pharmaceutical agent.

(iv) For pharmaceutical agents obtained under the TRICARE mail order program, the cost share will be as provided in 10 U.S.C. 1074g(a)(6), except that there is a $0 cost-share for smoking cessation pharmaceutical agents covered under the smoking cessation program.

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) For TRICARE Prime beneficiaries there is no annual deductible applicable for pharmaceutical agents obtained from retail network pharmacies or the TRICARE mail-order program. However, for TRICARE Prime beneficiaries who obtain formulary or generic pharmaceutical agents from retail non-network pharmacies, an enrollment year deductible of $300 per person and $600 per family must be met after which there is a beneficiary cost-share of 50 percent per prescription for up to a 30-day supply of the pharmaceutical agent.

(vii) For TRICARE Select beneficiaries the annual deductible which must be met before the cost-sharing amounts for pharmaceutical agents in paragraph (i)(2) of this section are applicable is as provided for each category of TRICARE Select enrollee in ยง 199.17(l)(2).

(viii) For TRICARE beneficiaries not otherwise qualified to enroll in TRICARE Prime or Select, the annual deductible which must be met before the cost-sharing amounts for pharmaceutical agents in paragraph (i)(2) of this section are applicable is as provided in ยง 199.4(f).

(ix) The TRICARE catastrophic cap limits apply to pharmacy benefits program cost-sharing.

(x) For any year after 2027, the cost-sharing amounts under this paragraph shall be equal to the cost-sharing amounts for the previous year adjusted by an amount, if any, determined by the Director to reflect changes in the costs of pharmaceutical agents and prescription dispensing, rounded to the nearest dollar. These cost changes, if any, will consider costs under the TRICARE pharmacy benefits program calculated separately for each of the following categories based on prescriptions filled in the most recent period for which TRICARE cost data are available, updated to the current year, if necessary, by appropriate industry data:

(A) Generic drugs in the retail point of service;

(B) Formulary drugs in the retail point of service;

(C) Generic drugs in the mail order point of service;

(D) Formulary drugs in the mail order point of service;

(E) Non-formulary drugs.

(xi) For a Medicare-eligible beneficiary, the cost-sharing requirements may not be in excess of the cost-sharing requirements applicable to all other beneficiaries covered by 10 U.S.C. 1086.
