
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 50.6 Procedures.
######## General.

(a)(1) No person has authority to enter a DoD installation to transact personal commercial solicitation as a matter of right. Personal commercial solicitation may be permitted only if the following requirements are met:

(i) The solicitor is duly licensed under applicable Federal, State, or municipal laws and has complied with installation regulations.

(ii) A specific appointment has been made for each meeting with the individual concerned. Each meeting is conducted only in family quarters or in other areas designated by the installation commander.

(iii) The solicitor agrees to provide each person solicited the personal commercial solicitation evaluation included in DD Form 2885during the initial appointment. The person being solicited is not required to complete the evaluation. However, completed evaluations should be sent by the person who was solicited to the office designated by the installation commander on the back of the evaluation form.

(iv) The solicitor agrees to provide DoD personnel with a written reminder, prior to their making a financial commitment, that free legal advice is available from the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate.

(2) Solicitors on overseas installations shall be required to observe, in addition to the above, the applicable laws of the host country. Upon request, the solicitor must present documentary evidence to the installation commander that the company they represent, and its agents, meet the applicable licensing requirements of the host country.
