
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 50.6 Procedures.
######## Commercial Solicitation Report,http://www.commanderspage.com.

(3) In addition, before approving insurance and financial product agents' requests for permission to solicit, commanders shall review the list of agents and companies currently barred, banned, or limited from soliciting on any or all DoD installations. This list may be viewed via the Personal"quick link" atIn overseas areas, the DoD Components shall limit insurance solicitation to those insurers registered under the provisions of appendix B to this part.

(4) The conduct of all insurance business on DoD installations shall be by specific appointment. When establishing the appointment, insurance agents shall identify themselves to the prospective purchaser as an agent for a specific insurer.

(5) Installation commanders shall designate areas where interviews by appointment may be conducted. The opportunity to conduct scheduled interviews shall be extended to all solicitors on an equitable basis. Where space and other considerations limit the number of agents using the interviewing area, the installation commander may develop and publish local policy consistent with this concept.

(6) Installation commanders shall make disinterested third-party insurance counseling available to DoD personnel desiring counseling. Financial counselors shall encourage DoD personnel to seek legal assistance or other advice from a disinterested third-party before entering into a contract for insurance or securities.

(7) In addition to the solicitation prohibitions contained in paragraph (d) of this section, DoD Components shall prohibit the following:

(i) The use of DoD personnel representing any insurer, dealing directly or indirectly on behalf of any insurer or any recognized representative of any insurer on the installation, or as an agent or in any official or business capacity with or without compensation.

(ii) The use of an agent as a participant in any Military Service-sponsored education or orientation program.

(iii) The designation of any agent or the use by any agent of titles (for example, "Battalion Insurance Counselor," "Unit Insurance Advisor," "Servicemen's Group Life Insurance Conversion Consultant,") that in any manner, states, or implies any type of endorsement from the U.S. Government, the Armed Forces, or any State or Federal agency or government entity.

(iv) The use of desk space for interviews for other than a specific prearranged appointment. During such appointment, the agent shall not be permitted to display desk signs or other materials announcing his or her name or company affiliation.

(v) The use of an installation "daily bulletin," marquee, newsletter, Web page, or other official notice to announce the presence of an agent and/or his or her availability.
