
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.23 Special Supplemental Food Program.
####### Certification of eligibility.

(c)(1) to the extent practicable, participants shall be certified as eligible to receive Program benefits according to income and nutritional risk certification guidelines contained in regulations published by the USDA pertaining to the Women, Infants, and Children program required under 7 CFR 246.7(d)(2)(iv)(B). Applicants must meet the following eligibility criteria:

(i) Meet one of the participant type requirements: be a member of the armed forces on duty overseas; a family member/dependent of a member of the armed forces on duty overseas; a U.S. national employee of a military department serving overseas; a family member of a U.S. national employee of a DoD contractor serving overseas; a family member of a U.S. national employee of a DoD contractor serving overseas;

(ii) Reside in the geographic area served by the WIC Overseas office;

(iii) Meet the income criteria specified in this section; and

(iv) Meet the nutrition risk criteria specified in this section.

(2) In terms of income eligibility, the following apply:

(i) The Department of Defense shall use the Alaska income poverty guidelines published by the DHHS for making determinations regarding income eligibility for the Program.

(ii) Program income eligibility guidelines shall be adjusted annually to conform to annual adjustments made by the DHHS.

(iii) For income eligibility, the Program may consider the income of the family during the past 12 months and the family's current rate of income to determine which indicator accurately reflects the family's status.

(iv) A pregnant woman who is ineligible for participation in the Program because she does not meet income criteria shall be deemed eligible if the criteria would be met by increasing the number of individuals in her family (economic unit) by the number of children in utero.

(v) The Program shall define income according to USDA regulations with regard to the USDA-administered WIC Program. In particular-

(A) A basic allowance for housing is excluded from income as required by section 674 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000.

(B) The value of in-kind housing benefits is excluded from income as required under USDA regulations.
