
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.23 Special Supplemental Food Program.
####### 2

(C) Cost of living allowances for duty outside the continental U.S. (OCONUS) is excluded from income as required under 7 CFR 246.7(d)(2)(iv)(A)().

(D) Public assistance and welfare payments are included in income.

(3) Participants must be found to be at nutritional risk to be eligible for program benefits.

(i) A Competent Professional Authority (CPA) shall determine if an applicant is at nutritional risk.

(ii) At the request of the program, applicants shall provide, according to schedules set by the USDA in 7 CFR 246.7(e) (unless deemed impracticable), nutritional risk data as a condition of certification in the Program. Such data includes:

(A) Anthropometric measurements,

(B) The results of hematological tests,

(C) Physical examination,

(D) Dietary information, or

(E) Developmental testing

(iii) A pregnant woman who meets all other eligibility criteria and for whom a nutritional risk assessment cannot immediately be completed will be considered presumptively eligible to participate in the Program for a period up to 60 days.

(iv) Infants under 6 months of age may be deemed to be at nutritional risk if the infant's mother was a Program participant during pregnancy or if medical records document that the mother was at nutritional risk during pregnancy.

(v) Unless otherwise specified herein or in 7 CFR 246.7(e), required nutritional risk data shall be provided to, or obtained by, the WIC Overseas Program office within 90 days of enrollment.

(4) In the event that it is impracticable for the WIC Overseas Program to adhere to the income and nutritional risk eligibility guidelines contained in USDA regulations, the Director, TRICARE Management Activity (TMA) may waive the Department's use of USDA WIC Program eligibility criteria by determining that it is impracticable to use these standards to certify participants in the WIC Overseas Program.

(i) Such determination shall consider relevant practical, administrative, national security, financial factors and existing Department policies and their application to the population served by the WIC Overseas Program.

(ii) Absent a written finding of impracticability described in section 199.23(c)(4), the eligibility criteria for the WIC program, contained in USDA regulations shall apply.

(5) An applicant for the WIC Overseas Program who presents a valid WIC Program Verification of Certification card, which is issued to participants in the domestic WIC Program when they intend to move, shall be considered eligible for participation in the WIC Overseas Program for the duration of the individual's current domestic WIC certification period, as long as he/she is an eligible service/family member or eligible civilian/family member.
