
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.23 Special Supplemental Food Program.
####### Nutrition Education.

(3)Nutrition education shall be provided to all participants at intervals prescribed in USDA regulations at 7 CFR Part 246.11.

(i) The WIC Overseas nutrition education program shall be locally overseen by a CPA based on guidance and materials provided by TMA.

(ii) Nutrition education and its means of delivery be tailored to the greatest extent practicable to the specific nutritional, cultural, practical, and other needs of the participant. Participant profiles created during certification may be used in designing appropriate nutrition education. A CPA may develop individual care plans, as necessary, consistent with USDA regulations.

(iii) Nutrition education shall consist of sessions wherein individual participants or groups of participants meet with a CPA in an interactive setting such that participants can ask, and the CPA can answer, questions related to nutrition practices. In addition, nutrition education shall utilize prepared educational materials and/or Internet sites. Both the sessions and the information materials shall be designed to improve health status, achieve positive change in dietary habits, and emphasize relationships between nutrition and health. Individual and group sessions can be accomplished through, among other things, face-to-face meetings, remote tele-videoconferencing, real-time computer-based distance learning, or other means.

(iv) Nutrition education services shall generally be provided to participants twice during each 6-month certification period, unless a different schedule is specified in USDA regulations.

(v) The nutrition education program shall promote breastfeeding as the optimal method of infant nutrition, encourage pregnant participants to breastfeed unless contraindicated for health reasons, and educate all participating women about the harmful effects of substance abuse.

(vi) Individual participants shall not be denied supplemental food due to the failure to attend scheduled nutrition education sessions.
