
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.23 Special Supplemental Food Program.
####### Administrative appeals and civil rights.

(g)(1) Applicants who are denied certification or participants that are denied recertification shall be provided with a notice of ineligibility. The notice shall include information on the applicant's right to appeal the determination and instructions on doing so.

(2) Benefits shall not be provided while an appeal is pending when an applicant is denied benefits, a participant's certification has expired or a participant becomes categorically ineligible.

(3) A request for appeal shall be submitted in writing within five working days. If the decision is an adverse one it shall include notice to the applicant of his further appeal rights as reflected in (iii) below, and that he/she has five working days to effect any such appeal.

(4) Appeal reviews shall be conducted in the first instance by the CPA or team leader in charge of the local WIC Overseas office.

(i) Written notice of a decision shall be provided to the applicant within five working days.

(ii) If the appeal is upheld, retroactive benefits shall not be provided.

(iii) At an applicant's request a denied appeal may be forwarded to the regional program manager for review, who will provide a decision on the appeal within 5 working days.

(iv) If the regional program manager denies the appeal, there shall be no further right of appeal.

(5) Complaints about discriminatory treatment shall be handled in accordance with procedures established at each local WIC Overseas site.
