
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 50.6 Procedures.
######## Prohibited practices.

(d)The following commercial solicitation practices shall be prohibited on all DoD installations:

(1) Solicitation of recruits, trainees, and transient personnel in a group setting or "mass" audience and solicitation of any DoD personnel in a "captive" audience where attendance is not voluntary.

(2) Making appointments with or soliciting military or DoD civilian personnel during their normally scheduled duty hours.

(3) Soliciting in barracks, day rooms, unit areas, transient personnel housing, or other areas where the installation commander has prohibited solicitation.

(4) Use of official military identification cards or DoD vehicle decals by active duty, retired or reserve members of the Military Services to gain access to DoD installations for the purpose of soliciting. When entering the installation for the purpose of solicitation, solicitors with military identification cards and/or DoD vehicle decals must present documentation issued by the installation authorizing solicitation.

(5) Procuring, attempting to procure, supplying, or attempting to supply non-public listings of DoD personnel for purposes of commercial solicitation, except for releases made in accordance with DoD Directive 5400.7.

(6) Offering unfair, improper, or deceptive inducements to purchase or trade.

(7) Using promotional incentives to facilitate transactions or to eliminate competition.

(8) Using manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent devices, schemes, or artifices, including misleading advertising and sales literature. All financial products, which contain insurance features, must clearly explain the insurance features of those products.

(9) Using oral or written representations to suggest or give the appearance that the Department of Defense sponsors or endorses any particular company, its agents, or the goods, services, and commodities it sells.

(10) DoD personnel making personal commercial solicitations or sales to DoD personnel who are junior in rank or grade, or to the family members of such personnel, except as authorized in Section 2-205 and 5-409 of the Joint Ethics Regulation, DoD 5500.7-R.

(11) Entering into any unauthorized or restricted area.

(12) Using any portion of installation facilities, including quarters, as a showroom or store for the sale of goods or services, except as specifically authorized by DoD Directive 1330.17and DoD Instructions 1015.10, 1000.15and 1330.21.This does not apply to normal home enterprises that comply with applicable State and local laws and installation rules.

(13) Soliciting door to door or without an appointment.

(14) Unauthorized advertising of addresses or telephone numbers used in personal commercial solicitation activities conducted on the installation, or the use of official positions, titles, or organization names, for the purpose of personal commercial solicitation, except as authorized in DoD 5500.7-R. Military grade and Military Service as part of an individual's name (e.g., Captain Smith, U.S. Marine Corps) may be used in the same manner as conventional titles, such as "Mr.", "Mrs.", or "Honorable".

(15) Contacting DoD personnel by calling a government telephone, faxing to a government fax machine, or by sending e-mail to a government computer, unless a pre-existing relationship (i.e., the DoD member is a current client or requested to be contacted) exists between the parties and the DoD member has not asked for contact to be terminated.
