
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.24 TRICARE Reserve Select.
####### Qualifications for TRICARE Reserve Select coverage,Ready Reserve member.

(b)-(1)A Ready Reserve member qualifies to purchase TRICARE Reserve Select coverage prior to January 1, 2030, if the Service member meets the criteria listed in both paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Beginning January 1, 2030, only the criteria in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is necessary for qualification.

(i) Is a member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve of the Armed Forces, or a member of the Individual Ready Reserve of the Armed Forces who has volunteered to be ordered to active duty pursuant to the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 12304 in accordance with section 10 U.S.C. 10144(b); and

(ii) Is not enrolled in, or eligible to enroll in, a health benefits plan under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89. That statute has been implemented under 5 CFR part 890 as the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) program. For purposes of the FEHB program, the terms "enrolled," "enroll" and "enrollee" are defined in 5 CFR 890.101. Further, the member (or certain former member involuntarily separated) no longer qualifies for TRICARE Reserve Select when the member (or former member) has been eligible for coverage to be effective in a health benefits plan under the FEHB program for more than 60 days.
