
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 50.6 Procedures.
######## Denial, suspension, and withdrawal of installation solicitation privileges.

(e)(1) The installation commander shall deny, suspend, or withdraw permission for a company and its agents to conduct commercial activities on the base if such action is in the best interests of the command. The grounds for taking these actions may include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Failure to meet the licensing and other regulatory requirements prescribed in this part or violations of the State law where the installation is located. Commanders will request that appropriate state officials determine whether a company or agent violated State law.

(ii) Commission of any of the practices prohibited in paragraphs (b)(6) and (d) of this section.

(iii) Substantiated complaints and/or adverse reports regarding the quality of goods, services, and/or commodities, and the manner in which they are offered for sale.

(iv) Knowing and willful violations of Public Law 90-321.

(v) Personal misconduct by a company's agent or representative while on the installation.

(vi) The possession of, and any attempt to obtain supplies of direct deposit forms, or any other form or device used by Military Departments to direct a Service member's pay to a third party, or possession or use of facsimiles thereof. This includes using or assisting in using a Service member's "MyPay" account or other similar Internet medium for the purpose of establishing a direct deposit for the purchase of insurance or other investment product.

(vii) Failure to incorporate and abide by the Standards of Fairness policies contained in DoD Instruction 1344.9.

(2) The installation commander may determine that circumstances dictate the immediate suspension of solicitation privileges while an investigation is conducted. Upon suspending solicitation privileges, the commander shall promptly inform the agent and the company the agent represents, in writing.

(3) In suspending or withdrawing solicitation privileges, the installation commander shall determine whether to limit such action to the agent alone or extend it to the company the agent represents. This decision shall be based on the circumstances of the particular case, including, but not limited to, the nature of the violations, frequency of violations, the extent to which other agents of the company have engaged in such practices and any other matters tending to show the culpability of an individual and the company.

(4) If the investigation determines an agent or company does not possess a valid license or the agent, company, or product has failed to meet other State or Federal regulatory requirements, the installation commander shall immediately notify the appropriate regulatory authorities.

(5) In a withdrawal action, the commander shall allow the individual or company an opportunity to show cause as to why the action should not be taken. To "show cause" means an opportunity must be given for the aggrieved party to present facts on an informal basis for the consideration of the installation commander or the commander's designee. The installation commander shall make a final decision regarding withdrawal based upon the entire record in each case. Installation commanders shall report concerns or complaints involving the quality or suitability of financial products or concerns or complaints involving marketing methods used to sell these products to the appropriate State and Federal regulatory authorities. Also, installation commanders shall report any suspension or withdrawal of insurance or securities products solicitation privileges to the appropriate State or Federal regulatory authorities.
