
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.24 TRICARE Reserve Select.
####### Termination.

(2)Termination of coverage for the TRS member/survivor will result in termination of coverage for the member's/survivor's family members in TRICARE Reserve Select. Procedures may be established for coverage to be terminated as follows.

(i) Coverage shall terminate when members or survivors no longer qualify for TRICARE Reserve Select as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, with one exception. If a member is involuntarily separated from the Selected Reserve under other than adverse conditions, as characterized by the Secretary concerned, and is covered by TRICARE Reserve Select on the last day of his or her membership in the Selected Reserve, then TRICARE Reserve Select coverage may terminate up to 180 days after the date on which the member was separated from the Selected Reserve. This applies regardless of type of coverage. This exception expires December 31, 2018.

(ii) Coverage may terminate for members, former members, and survivors who gain coverage under another TRICARE program.

(iii) In accordance with the provisions of ยง 199.17(o)(2) coverage terminates for members/survivors who fail to make premium payments in accordance with established procedures.

(iv) Coverage may be terminated for members/survivors upon request at any time by submitting a completed request in the appropriate format in accordance with established procedures.
