
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 50.6 Procedures.
######## http://www.commanderspage.com.

(6) The installation commander shall inform the Military Department concerned of any denial, suspension, withdrawal, or reinstatement of an agent or company's solicitation privileges and the Military Department shall inform the Office of the PDUSD(P&R), which will maintain a list of insurance and financial product companies and agents currently barred, banned, or otherwise limited from soliciting on any or all DoD installations. This list may be viewed atIf warranted, the installation commander may recommend to the Military Department concerned that the action taken be extended to other DoD installations. The Military Department may extend the action to other military installations in the Military Department. The PDUSD(P&R), following consultation with the Military Department concerned, may order the action extended to other Military Departments.

(7) All suspensions or withdrawals of privileges may be permanent or for a set period of time. If for a set period, when that period expires, the individual or company may reapply for permission to solicit through the installation commander or Military Department originally imposing the restriction. The installation commander or Military Department reinstating permission to solicit shall notify the Office of the PDUSD(P&R) and appropriate State and Federal regulatory agencies when such suspensions or withdrawals are lifted.

(8) The Secretaries of the Military Departments may direct the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Boards in all geographical areas in which the grounds for withdrawal action have occurred to consider all applicable information and take action that the Boards deem appropriate.

(9) Nothing in this part limits the authority of the installation commander or other appropriate authority from requesting or instituting other administrative and/or criminal action against any person, including those who violate the conditions and restrictions upon which installation entry is authorized.
