
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 50.6 Procedures.
######## Advertising and commercial sponsorship.

(f)(1) The Department of Defense expects voluntary observance of the highest business ethics by commercial enterprises soliciting DoD personnel through advertisements in unofficial military publications when describing goods, services, commodities, and the terms of the sale (including guarantees, warranties, and the like).

(2) The advertising of credit terms shall conform to the provisions of 15 U.S.C. 1601 as implemented by Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z according to 12 CFR part 226.

(3) Solicitors may provide commercial sponsorship to DoD Morale, Welfare and Recreation programs or events according to DoD Instruction 1015.10. However, sponsorship may not be used as a means to obtain personal contact information for any participant at these events without written permission from the individual participant. In addition, commercial sponsors may not use sponsorship to advertise products and/or services not specifically agreed to in the sponsorship agreement.

(4) The installation commander may permit organizations to display sales literature in designated locations subject to command policies. In accordance with DoD 7000.14-R,Volume 7(a), distribution of competitive literature or forms by off-base banks and/or credit unions is prohibited on installations where an authorized on-base bank and/or credit union exists.
