
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 50.6 Procedures.
######## Educational programs.

(g)(1) The Military Departments shall develop and disseminate information and provide educational programs for members of the Military Services on their personal financial affairs, including such subjects as insurance, Government benefits, savings, budgeting, and other financial education and assistance requirements outlined in DoD Instruction 1342.27.The Military Departments shall ensure that all instructors are qualified as appropriate for the subject matter presented. The services of representatives of authorized on-base banks and credit unions may be used for this purpose. Under no circumstances shall commercial agents, including representatives of loan, finance, insurance, or investment companies, be used for this purpose. Presentations shall only be conducted at the express request of the installation commander.

(2) The Military Departments shall also make qualified personnel and facilities available for individual counseling on loans and consumer credit transactions in order to encourage thrift and financial responsibility and promote a better understanding of the wise use of credit, as prescribed in DoD 7000.14-R.

(3) The Military Departments shall encourage military members to seek advice from a legal assistance officer, the installation financial counselor, their own lawyer, or a financial counselor, before making a substantial loan or credit commitment.

(4) Each Military Department shall provide advice and guidance to DoD personnel who have a complaint under DoD 1344.9 or who allege a criminal violation of its provisions, including referral to the appropriate regulatory agency for processing of the complaint.

(5) Banks and credit unions operating on DoD installations are required to provide financial counseling services as an integral part of their financial services offerings. Representatives of and materials provided by authorized banks and/or credit unions located on military installations may be used to provide the educational programs and information required by this part subject to the following conditions:

(i) If the bank or credit union operating on a DoD installation sells insurance or securities or has any affiliation with a company that sells or markets insurance or other financial products, the installation commander shall consider that company's history of complying with this part before authorizing the on-base financial institution to provide financial education.

(ii) All prospective educators must agree to use appropriate disclaimers in their presentations and on their other educational materials. The disclaimers must clearly indicate that they do not endorse or favor any commercial supplier, product, or service, or promote the services of a specific financial institution.

(6) Use of other non-government organizations to provide financial education programs is limited as follows:

(i) Under no circumstances shall commercial agents, including employees or representatives of commercial loan, finance, insurance, or investment companies, be used.

(ii) The limitation in paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section does not apply to educational programs and information regarding the Survivor Benefits Program and other government benefits provided by tax-exempt organizations under section (c)(23) of 26 U.S.C. 501 or by any organization providing such a benefit under a contract with the Government.

(iii) Educators from non-government, non-commercial organizations expert in personal financial affairs and their materials may, with appropriate disclaimers, provide the educational programs and information required by this part if approved by a Presidentially-appointed, Senate-confirmed civilian official of the Military Department concerned. Presentations by approved organizations shall be conducted only at the express request of the installation commander. The following criteria shall be used when considering whether to permit a non-government, non-commercial organization to present an educational program or provide materials on personal financial affairs:

(A) The organization must qualify as a tax-exempt organization under 5 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) or 5 U.S.C. 501(c)(23).

(B) If the organization has any affiliation with a company that sells or markets insurance or other financial products, the approval authority shall consider that company's history of complying with this part.

(C) All prospective educators must use appropriate disclaimers, in their presentations and on their other educational materials, which clearly indicate that they and the Department of Defense do not endorse or favor any commercial supplier, product, or service or promote the services of a specific financial institution.
