
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.25 TRICARE Retired Reserve.
####### Termination.

(2)Termination of coverage for the TRR member/survivor will result in termination of coverage for the member's/survivor's family members in TRICARE Retired Reserve. Procedures may be established for coverage to be terminated as follows.

(i) Coverage shall terminate when members or survivors no longer qualify for TRICARE Retired Reserve as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. For purposes of this section, the member or their survivor no longer qualifies for TRICARE Retired Reserve when the member has been eligible for coverage in a health benefits plan under Chapter 89 of Title 5, U.S.C. for more than 60 days. Further, coverage shall terminate when the Retired Reserve member attains the age of 60 or, if survivor coverage is in effect, when the deceased Retired Reserve member would have attained the age of 60.

(ii) Coverage may terminate for members, former members, and survivors who gain coverage under another TRICARE program.

(iii) In accordance with the provisions of ยง 199.17(o)(2) coverage terminates for members/survivors who fail to make premium payments in accordance with established procedures.

(iv) Coverage may be terminated for members/survivors upon request at any time by submitting a completed request in the appropriate format in accordance with established procedures.
