
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 50 - Life Insurance Products and Securities

Companies must provide DoD personnel a written description for each product or service they intend to market to DoD personnel on DoD installations. These descriptions must be written in a manner that DoD personnel can easily understand, and fully disclose the fundamental nature of the policy. Companies must be able to demonstrate that each form to be used has been filed with and approved, where applicable, by the insurance department of the State where the installation is located. Insurance products marketed to DoD personnel on overseas installations must conform to the standards prescribed by the laws of the State where the company is incorporated.

1. Insurance products, other than certificates or other evidence of insurance issued by a self-insured association, offered and sold worldwide to personnel on DoD installations, must:

a. Comply with the insurance laws of the State or country in which the installation is located and the requirements of this part.

b. Contain no restrictions by reason of Military Service or military occupational specialty of the insured, unless such restrictions are clearly indicated on the face of the contract.

c. Plainly indicate any extra premium charges imposed by reason of Military Service or military occupational specialty.

d. Contain no variation in the amount of death benefit or premium based upon the length of time the contract has been in force, unless all such variations are clearly described in the contract.

e. In plain and readily understandable language, and in type font at least as large as the font used for the majority of the policy, inform Service members of:
