
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 199 - CIVILIAN HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES (CHAMPUS)
###### ยง 199.26 TRICARE Young Adult.
####### Retired Reserve Sponsor.

(C)Retired Reserve members not yet eligible for retired or retainer pay must be enrolled in TRICARE Retired Reserve (TRR) to establish TYA eligibility for their young adult dependents. If TRR coverage is terminated by the sponsor, the TYA coverage for the young adult dependent ends effective the same date as the sponsor's termination of coverage under TRR. If the retired reserve sponsor dies while enrolled in TRR, the young adult dependent may continue to purchase TYA coverage until the date on which the deceased member would have attained age 60, if otherwise qualified. If the Retired Reserve member dies and is not enrolled in TRR, there is no eligibility for TYA coverage until the sponsor would have reached age 60. On the date the Retired Reserve member would have reached 60, a young adult dependent who otherwise qualifies for TYA qualifies as a dependent of a deceased retired sponsor and can purchase TYA coverage.

(ii) Failure of a young adult dependent to maintain the eligibility qualifications in paragraph (b) of this section shall result in the termination of coverage under the TYA program. The effective date of termination shall be the date upon which the adult young dependent failed to meet any of the prerequisite qualifications. If a subsequent change in circumstances re-establishes eligibility (such as losing eligibility for an eligible employer-sponsored plan), the young adult dependent may re-enroll for coverage under the TYA program.

(iii) Coverage may also be terminated due to a change in the sponsor's status, and the young adult dependent must re-qualify and reapply for TYA coverage within 30 days of termination to preclude a gap in coverage.

(iv) Termination of coverage results in denial of claims for services with a date of service after the effective date of termination.

(v) Coverage may be terminated for young adult dependents upon request at any time by submitting a completed request in the appropriate format in accordance with established procedures.

(vi) In accordance with the provisions of ยง 199.17(o)(2), coverage terminates for young adult dependents who fail to make premium payments in accordance with established procedures.

(vii) Absent a new qualifying event, young adults are not eligible to re-enroll in TYA until the next annual open season.
