
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 50 - PERSONAL COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 50 - Life Insurance Products and Securities
####### 3.

That the U.S. Government has in no way sanctioned, recommended, or encouraged the sale of the product being offered. With respect to the sale or solicitation of insurance on Federal land or facilitates located outside the United States, insurance products must contain the address and phone number where consumer complaints are received by the State insurance commissioner for the State which has issued the agent a resident license or the company is domiciled, as applicable.

2. To comply with paragraphs A.1.b., A.1.c. and A.1.d., an appropriate reference stamped on the first page of the contract shall draw the attention of the policyholder to any restrictions by reason of Military Service or military occupational specialty. The reference shall describe any extra premium charges and any variations in the amount of death benefit or premium based upon the length of time the contract has been in force.

3. Variable life insurance products may be offered provided they meet the criteria of the appropriate insurance regulatory agency and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

4. Insurance products shall not be marketed or sold disguised as investments. If there is a savings component to an insurance product, the agent shall provide the customer written documentation, which clearly explains how much of the premium goes to the savings component per year broken down over the life of the policy. This document must also show the total amount per year allocated to insurance premiums. The customer must be provided a copy of this document that is signed by the insurance agent.

1. All securities must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

2. All sales of securities must comply with the appropriate Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.

3. All securities representatives must apply to the commander of the installation on which they desire to solicit the sale of securities for permission to solicit.

4. Where the accredited insurer's policy permits, an overseas accredited life insurance agent-if duly qualified to engage in security activities either as a registered representative of the National Association of Securities Dealers or as an associate of a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission-may offer life insurance and securities for sale simultaneously. In cases of commingled sales, the allotment of pay for the purchase of securities cannot be made to the insurer.

1. Allotments of military pay for life insurance products shall be made in accordance with DoD 7000.14-R.

2. For personnel in pay grades E-4 and below, in order to obtain financial counseling, at least seven calendar days shall elapse between the signing of a life insurance application and the certification of a military pay allotment for any supplemental commercial life insurance. Installation Finance Officers are responsible for ensuring this seven-day cooling-off period is monitored and enforced. The purchaser's commanding officer may grant a waiver of the seven-day cooling-off period requirement for good cause, such as the purchaser's imminent deployment or permanent change of station.

The recent growth and general acceptability of quasi-military associations offering various insurance plans to military personnel are acknowledged. Some associations are not organized within the supervision of insurance laws of either a State or the Federal Government. While some are organized for profit, others function as nonprofit associations under Internal Revenue Service regulations. Regardless of the manner in which insurance is offered to members, the management of the association is responsible for complying fully with the policies contained in this part.
