
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 200 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTY AUTHORITIES FOR THE TRICARE PROGRAM
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 200.140 Determinations regarding the amount of penalties and assessments.
######## e.g.,

(2) The degree of culpability of the person against whom a civil money penalty and assessment is proposed. It should be considered an aggravating circumstance if the respondent had actual knowledge where a lower level of knowledge was required to establish liability (for a provision that establishes liability if the respondent "knew or should have known" a claim was false or fraudulent, it will be an aggravating circumstance if the respondent knew the claim was false or fraudulent). It should be a mitigating circumstance if the person took appropriate and timely corrective action in response to the violation. For purposes of this part, corrective action must include disclosing the violation to the DHA by initiating a self-disclosure and fully cooperating with the DHA's review and resolution of such disclosure;

(3) The history of prior offenses. Aggravating circumstances include, if at any time prior to the violation, the individual-or in the case of an entity, the entity itself; any individual who had a direct or indirect ownership or control interest (as defined in section 1124(a)(3) of the Act) in a sanctioned entity at the time the violation occurred and who knew, or should have known, of the violation; or any individual who was an officer or a managing employee (as defined in section 1126(b) of the Act) of such an entity at the time the violation occurred-was held liable for criminal, civil, or administrative sanctions in connection with a program covered by this part or in connection with the delivery of a health care item or service;

(4) Other wrongful conduct. Aggravating circumstances include proof that the individual-or in the case of an entity, the entity itself; any individual who had a direct or indirect ownership or control interest (as defined in section 1124(a)(3) of the Act) in a sanctioned entity at the time the violation occurred and who knew, or should have known, of the violation; or any individual who was an officer or a managing employee (as defined in section 1126(b) of the Act) of such an entity at the time the violation occurred-engaged in wrongful conduct, other than the specific conduct upon which liability is based, relating to a government program or in connection with the delivery of a health care item or service. The statute of limitations governing civil money penalty proceedings does not apply to proof of other wrongful conduct as an aggravating circumstance; and

(5) Such other matters as justice may require. Other circumstances of an aggravating or mitigating nature should be considered if, in the interests of justice, they require either a reduction or an increase in the penalty or assessment to achieve the purposes of this part.

(b)(1) After determining the amount of any penalty and assessment in accordance with this part, the DHA considers the ability of the person to pay the proposed civil money penalty or assessment. The person shall provide, in a time and manner requested by the DHA, sufficient financial documentation, including, but not limited to, audited financial statements, tax returns, and financial disclosure statements, deemed necessary by the DHA to determine the person's ability to pay the penalty or assessment.

(2) If the person requests a hearing in accordance with ยง 200.2002, the only financial documentation subject to review is that which the person provided to the DHA during the administrative process, unless the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) finds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the person from providing the financial documentation to the DHA in the time and manner requested by the DHA prior to the hearing request.

(c) In determining the amount of any penalty and assessment to be imposed under this part the following circumstances are also to be considered-

(1) If there are substantial or several mitigating circumstances, the aggregate amount of the penalty and assessment should be set at an amount sufficiently below the maximum permitted by this part to reflect that fact.

(2) If there are substantial or several aggravating circumstances, the aggregate amount of the penalty and assessment should be set at an amount sufficiently close to or at the maximum permitted by this part to reflect that fact.

(3) Unless there are extraordinary mitigating circumstances, the aggregate amount of the penalty and assessment should not be less than double the approximate amount of damages and costs (as defined by paragraph (e)(2) of this section) sustained by the United States, or any State, as a result of the violation.

(4) The presence of any single aggravating circumstance may justify imposing a penalty and assessment at or close to the maximum even when one or more mitigating factors is present.

(d)(1) The standards set forth in this section are binding, except to the extent that their application would result in imposition of an amount that would exceed limits imposed by the United States Constitution.

(2) The amount imposed will not be less than the approximate amount required to fully compensate the United States, for its damages and costs, tangible and intangible, including, but not limited to, the costs attributable to the investigation, prosecution, and administrative review of the case.

(3) Nothing in this part limits the authority of the Department or the DHA to settle any issue or case as provided by ยง 200.1530 or to compromise any penalty and assessment as provided by ยง 200.1550.

(4) Penalties and assessments imposed under this part are in addition to any other penalties, assessments, or other sanctions prescribed by law.
