
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 200 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTY AUTHORITIES FOR THE TRICARE PROGRAM
###### Subpart B - Civil Money Penalties (CMPs) and Assessments for False or Fraudulent Claims and Other Similar Misconduct
####### § 200.210 Amount of penalties and assessments.
######## Penalties.

(a)(1) Except as provided in this section, the DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $20,504 for each individual violation that is subject to a determination under this subpart.

(2) For each individual violation of § 200.200(b)(1), the DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $20,504 for each separately billable or non-separately-billable item or service provided, furnished, ordered, or prescribed by an excluded individual or entity.

(3) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $100,522 for each false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of a material fact in violation of § 200.200(b)(3).

(4) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $100,522 for each false record or statement in violation of § 200.200(b)(5).

(5) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $20,504 for each item or service related to an overpayment that is not reported and returned in accordance with section 1128J(d) of the Act in violation of § 200.200(b)(4).

(6) The DHA may impose a penalty of not more than $30,757 for each day of failure to grant timely access in violation of § 200.200(b)(6).
