
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 200 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTY AUTHORITIES FOR THE TRICARE PROGRAM
###### Subpart P - Appeals of CMPs and Assessments
####### ยง 200.2015 The hearing and burden of proof.

(a) The ALJ will conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the petitioner or respondent should be found liable under this part.

(b) With regard to the burden of proof in civil money penalty cases under this part-

(1) The respondent or petitioner, as applicable, bears the burden of going forward and the burden of persuasion with respect to affirmative defenses and any mitigating circumstances; and

(2) The DHA bears the burden of going forward and the burden of persuasion with respect to all other issues.

(c) The burden of persuasion will be judged by a preponderance of the evidence.

(d) The hearing will be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown.

(e)(1) A hearing under this part is not limited to specific items and information set forth in the notice letter to the petitioner or respondent. Subject to the 15-day requirement under ยง 200.2008, additional items and information, including aggravating or mitigating circumstances that arose or became known subsequent to the issuance of the notice letter, may be introduced by either party during its case-in-chief unless such information or items are-

(i) Privileged; or

(ii) Deemed otherwise inadmissible under ยง 200.2017.

(2) After both parties have presented their cases, evidence may be admitted on rebuttal even if not previously exchanged in accordance with ยง 200.2008.
