
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 200 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTY AUTHORITIES FOR THE TRICARE PROGRAM
###### Subpart P - Appeals of CMPs and Assessments
####### ยง 200.2020 Initial decision.

(a) The ALJ will issue an initial decision, based only on the record, which will contain findings of fact and conclusions of law.

(b) The ALJ may affirm, increase or reduce the penalties, assessment proposed or imposed by the DHA.

(c) The ALJ will issue the initial decision to all parties within 120 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs, if permitted, has expired. The decision will be accompanied by a statement describing the right of any party to file a notice of appeal with the DAB and instructions for how to file such appeal. If the ALJ fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph (c), he or she will notify the parties of the reason for the delay and will set a new deadline.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, unless the initial decision is appealed to the DAB, it will be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ serves the parties with a copy of the decision. If service is by mail, the date of service will be deemed to be 5 days from the date of mailing.

(e) If an extension of time within which to appeal the initial decision is granted under ยง 200.2021(a), except as provided in ยง 200.2022(a), the initial decision will become final and binding on the day following the end of the extension period.
