
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 203 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION (TAPP) IN DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION ACTIVITIES
###### § 203.5 TAPP process.
####### TAPP project request.

(c)The RAB or TRC should notify the installation of its intent to pursue TAPP upon the determination that other sources of assistance are unavailable or unlikely to contribute to the community acceptance of environmental restoration activities at the installation and should prepare a formal request specifying the type of assistance required and, if desired, one or more sources for this assistance. Details concerning this request are stated in § 203.9 of this part. The RAB or TRC must certify to the Department of Defense that the TAPP request represents a request by a majority of the community members of the RAB or TRC. The RAB or TRC should ensure that the request meets the eligibility requirements specified in §§ 203.10 and 203.11 of this part. Furthermore, the RAB or TRC may outline additional criteria for the Department of Defense to consider in the selection of a provider (such as knowledge of local environmental conditions or specific technical issues, a prior work history within the study area which has relevant specific circumstances or unique challenges, or other relevant expertise or capabilities), keeping in mind that providers must meet the minimum technical qualifications outlined in § 203.12 of this part. The formal request should be submitted to the installation commander or designated decision authority, either directly, or through the DoD RAB Co-chair. The installation commander, or other designated decision authority, will review the proposed project to determine whether the proposed project conforms to the eligibility requirements. If the installation commander, or other designated authority, fails to approve the project request, the rationale for that decision will be provided to the RAB/TRC in writing.
