
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 203 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION (TAPP) IN DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION ACTIVITIES
###### ยง 203.5 TAPP process.
####### Purchase orders.

(d)Upon receipt of a completed TAPP request, the installation will begin the procurement process necessary to obtain the desired services by means of a purchase order or will forward the request to the contracting authority designated by the DoD Component to act for that installation. The government is required to follow the rules and regulations for purchase orders as outlined in the FAR (48 CFR part 13). As a result, the government cannot direct awards to a specified supplier unless the procurement is under $2,500, and then only if the cost is comparable to other suppliers. For procurements over $2,500 but under $100,000, the acquisition is reserved for small businesses, unless there is a reasonable expectation that small businesses could not provide the best scientific and technological sources consistent with the demands of the proposed acquisition for the best mix of cost, performance, and schedules. Furthermore, the award must be on a competitive basis. In addition to proposing potential providers, the application for technical assistance may indicate specific criteria or qualifications that are deemed necessary by the RAB/TRC for the completion of the project to their satisfaction. This information will be used to assist the Department of Defense in preparing a bidders list. The Department of Defense will solicit bids from those providers meeting the criteria and will select a provider offering the best value to the government. Should the procurement process identify a qualified respondent other than the proposed provider(s) identified by the RAB/TRC or fail to identify any qualified respondents, the RAB/TRC will be consulted prior to the award of a purchase order. If the Department of Defense determines that the TAPP request represents an eligible project for which no funds are available, it will ask the RAB or TRC to specify whether the project should be reconsidered upon the availability of additional funds.
