
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 208 - NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION PROGRAM (NSEP) AND NSEP SERVICE AGREEMENT
###### ยง 208.5 Responsibilities.

(a) Under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)), the ASD(R):

(1) Develops programs, processes, and policies to support NSEP award recipients in fulfilling their NSEP service agreement through internships or employment in federal service pursuant to 50 U.S.C. chapter 37.

(2) Determines, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1902(a), after consultation with the National Security Education Board, which countries, languages, and disciplines are critical and in which there are deficiencies of knowledgeable personnel within federal entities.

(b) Under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R) through the ASD(R), and in coordination with the Director, Department of Defense Human Resources Activity (DoDHRA), the DASD(FE&T), or his or her designee:

(1) Makes available competitive scholarship, fellowship, and English for Heritage Language Speakers (EHLS) awards to U.S. citizens who wish to engage in study for the purposes of national security in accordance with 50 U.S.C. chapter 37.

(2) Manages, oversees, and monitors compliance of NSEP service agreements on behalf of the Secretary of Defense.

(3) Advises NSEP award recipients who are seeking federal or national security positions on how to fulfill their NSEP service agreement in national security positions.

(4) Maintains documentation of successful completion of federal service or initiates debt collection procedures for those NSEP recipients who fail to comply with the NSEP service agreement.

(5) Works with agencies or offices in the U.S. Government to identify potential employment opportunities for NSEP award recipients and make employment opportunities and information readily available to all award recipients.

(6) Approves or disapproves all DD Form 2573 written requests for service credit, deferrals, extensions, or waivers of the NSEP service agreement, including adjudication of all cases involving award recipients who decline job offers.

(c) Under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R), and in coordination with the DASD(FE&T), the Director, DoDHRA:

(1) Provides administrative and operational support to NSEP.

(2) Provides fiscal management and oversight to ensure all funds provided for NSEP are separately and visibly accounted for in the DoD budget.
