
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 213 - SUPPORT FOR NON-FEDERAL ENTITIES AUTHORIZED TO OPERATE ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### ยง 213.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (PDUSD(P&R)), under the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, shall:

(1) Be responsible for implementing all policy matters and Office of the Secretary of Defense oversight of non-Federal entities on DoD installations.

(2) Develop procedures and execute any necessary agreements to implement policy for the operation of non-Federal entities on DoD installations.

(3) Assign responsibilities to the DoD Components to accomplish specific oversight and administrative responsibilities with respect to non-Federal entities operating on DoD installations.

(4) Oversee the activities of the designated DoD EA, assessing the need for continuation, currency, effectiveness, and efficiency of the DoD EA according to 10 U.S.C. 2554 and 2606. Make recommendations for establishment of additional DoD EA assignments and arrangements as necessary.

(b) The Secretary of the Army, as the designated DoD EA, and according to 10 U.S.C. 2554 and 2606, shall:

(1) Perform the audit of the annual ARC accounts and prepare and submit the annual report according to 36 U.S.C. 300110 and this part.

(2) Coordinate support to the BSA and GSUSA according to DoD Instruction 1015.9and this part.

(3) Provide necessary deployment support to ARC according to an approved DoD and ARC MOU. Initially, the Army will cover costs, except those paid by the ARC. The Army will then be reimbursed, upon its request, by the entity directly benefiting from the ARC support.

(4) Designate a point of contact to coordinate matters regarding the DoD EA responsibilities, functions, and authorities.

(c) The Secretary of the Air Force, as the designated DoD EA with responsibility for conducting the AFE program, shall administer the AFE program according to 10 U.S.C. 2554 and 2606, DoD Instruction 1330.13, and this part to include the following:

(1) Annually determine with the other DoD Components and the PDUSD(P&R) the scope of the program.

(2) Budget, fund, and maintain accountability for approved appropriated fund expenses. Develop and implement supplemental guidance to identify allowable expenses and reimbursements.

(3) Provide centralized services for selecting, declining, scheduling, and processing entertainment groups for overseas.

(4) Designate a point of contact to coordinate matters regarding the DoD EA responsibilities, functions, and authorities.
