
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.6 Information requirements.

(a) Each DoD Component shall maintain a log of all complaints that are filed with it or its recipients under this part. The log shall contain the complainant's name (last name, first, and middle initial) and address (street address, city, State, and zip code), the recipient's name (if this refers to a person, last name, first, and middle initial) and address (street address, city, State, and zip code), the nature of the complaint, and the current status of the complaint investigation or resolution. Each DoD Component shall submit a narrative summary report on complaints by memorandum to the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, before July 15 and January 15 of each year. This reporting requirement has been assigned Report Control Symbol DD-M(SA)1596.

(b) Each DoD Component shall submit a narrative report by memorandum to the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, whenever, pursuant to enclosure 4 of this directive, the DoD Component notifies an applicant or recipient that noncompliance with this part is indicated. The report shall include the recipient's name (if this refers to a person, last name, first, and middle initial) and address (street address, city, State, and zip code), the date (YYMMDD) and nature of the finding, and the name of the applicable federally assisted program or activity. This reporting requirement has been assigned Report Control Symbol DD-M(AR)1597.

(c) The recordkeeping requirements contained in ยง 56.9(c)(2), have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB No. 0704-0102.
