
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.7 Programs and activities subject to this part.

(a) This part applies to all DoD Components and recipients of Federal financial assistance disbursed by a DoD Component insofar as the programs and activities of the DoD Components and recipients affect handicapped persons in the United States. Existing programs and activities that are assisted or conducted by a DoD Component and that are subject to this part but do not appear in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, are covered even though not listed. DoD Components must report new programs and activities that are subject to this part to the ASD (MRA&L), or designee, within 15 calendar days of their creation or funding.

(b) Federal financial assistance programs subject to this part include: (1) title 32, United States Code, sections 101-716 (1976 and supp. III 1979): the Army and Air National Guard.

(2) Title 40, U.S. Code, sections 483, 484, and 512 (1976); title 49, U.S. Code, sections 1101 and 1107 (1976); and title 10, U.S. Code, sections 2541, 2544, 2571, 2576, 2662, 7308, 7541, 7542, 7545, 7546, and 7547 (1976 and supp. IV 1980): Various programs involving the loan or other disposition of surplus, obsolete, or unclaimed property.

(3) Title 10 U.S. Code, sections 4307-4311 (1976), and the annual Department of Defense Appropriations Act: National Program for the Promotion of Rifle Practice.

(4) Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5720.19E, "Navy Science Cruiser Program," February 24, 1977.

(5) Title 10 U.S. Code, section 9441 (1976 and supp. IV 1980): Civil Air Patrol.

(6) Title 41 U.S. Code, sections 501-509 (supp. III 1979): Federal grants and cooperative agreements.

(7) Title 33 U.S. Code, section 426 (1976 and supp. III 1979): Army Corps of Engineers participation in cooperative investigations and studies concerning the erosion of shores of coastal and lake waters.

(8) Title 33 U.S. Code, sections 426e-426h (1976): Army Corps of Engineers assistance in the construction of works for the restoration and protection of shores.

(9) Title 16 U.S. Code, section 460d (1976): Construction and operation of public park and recreational facilities in water resource development projects under the administrative jurisdiction of the Department of the Army.

(10) Title 33 U.S. Code, section 701c-3 (1976): Payment to States of lease receipts from lands acquired by the United States for flood control, navigation, and allied purposes.

(11) Title 33 U.S. Code, sections 558c and 702d-1 (1976); title 10, U.S. Code, sections 2668 and 2669 (1976); title 43, U.S. Code, section 961 (1976); and title 40, U.S. Code, section 319 (1976): Grants of easements without consideration, or at a nominal or reduced consideration, on land under the control of the Department of the Army at water resource development projects.

(12) Title 33 U.S. Code, sections 540 and 577 (1976): Army Corps of Engineers assistance in the construction of small boat harbor projects.

(13) Title 33 U.S. Code, section 701s (1976): Emergency bank protection works constructed by the Army Corps of Engineers for protection of highways, bridge approaches, and public works.

(14) Title 33 U.S. Code, section 633 (1976): Army Corps of Engineers contracts for the protection, alteration, reconstruction, relocation, or replacement of structures and facilities.

(15) Title 50 U.S. Code, section 453 (1976): Defense Logistics Agency loans of industrial equipment to educational institutions (Tools for Schools).

(16) Title 33 U.S. Code, section 610 (1976): Provision of specialized services or technical information by the Army Corps of Engineers to State and local governments for the control of aquatic plant growths in rivers, harbors, and allied waters.

(17) Title 42 U.S. Code, section 1962d-16 (1976): Provision of specialized services by the Army Corps of Engineers to any State for the preparation of comprehensive plans for drainage basins located within the boundaries of said State.

(18) Title 33 U.S. Code, section 603a (1976): Provision of specialized services by the Army Corps of Engineers to improve channels for navigation.

(19) Title 33 U.S. Code, section 701g (1976): Provision of specialized services by the Army Corps of Engineers to reduce flood damage.

(20) Title 24 U.S. Code, sections 44c and 47 (1976): United States Soldiers' and Airmen's Home.

(21) Title 10 U.S. Code, chapter 55, as implemented by DoD 6010.8-R, "Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS)," January 10, 1977.

(c) All programs and activities conducted by the Department of Defense that affect handicapped persons in the United States are subject to this part. They include:

(1) Promulgation of rules and regulations for public comment in a manner that grants handicapped persons a reasonable opportunity for such comment (such as by making cassette recordings of proposed rules).

(2) Public meetings, conferences, or seminars sponsored or conducted by a DoD Component but held in nongovernmental buildings.

(3) Public meetings, conferences, or seminars sponsored or conducted by a DoD Component or by a non-DoD organization but held in a DoD building.

(4) Open houses, memorial services, tours, or other ceremonies held on or in DoD property.

(5) Military museums.

(6) Historic vessels.

(7) Historic buildings and properties maintained by a DoD Component and properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local governmental body.

(8) Schools operated by the Department of Defense within the United States pursuant to section 6 of Public Law 81-874, title 20, U.S. Code, section 241 (1976).
