
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 216 - MILITARY RECRUITING AND RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS PROGRAM ACCESS TO INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
###### Appendix A to Part 216 - Military Recruiting Sample Letter of Inquiry

Dear Dr. Doe: I understand that military recruiting personnel [have been unable to recruit or have been refused student-recruiting informationat (subelement of) ABC University)] by a policy or practice of the school. Specifically, military recruiting personnel have reported [here state policy decisions or practices encountered]. [If preliminary information coming to the attention of a Military Service indicates that other Military Services' recruiting representatives have been similarly informed of the policy or experienced a similar practice affecting their ability for military recruiting purposes to have the access or information require, so state.]

Current Federal law (10 U.S.C. 983) denies the use of certain Federal funds through grants or contracts, to include payment on such contracts or grants previously obligated, (excluding any Federal funding to an institution of higher education, or to an individual, to be available solely for student financial assistance, related administrative costs, or costs associated with attendance) from appropriations of the Departments of Defense, Transportation, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and related agencies to institutions of higher education (including any subelements of such institutions) that have a policy or practice of denying military recruiting personnel access to campuses or access to students on campuses, in a manner that is at least equal in quality and scope (as explained in ยง 216.3 of Title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 216), as it provides to nonmilitary recruiters, or access to student recruiting information. Implementing regulations are codified at Title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 216.

This letter provides you an opportunity to clarify your institution's policy regarding military recruiting on the campus of [University]. In that regard, I request, within the next 30 days, a written policy statement of the institution with respect to access to campus and students by military recruiting personnel. Your response should highlight any difference between access for military recruiters and access for recruiting by other potential employers.

Based on this information and any additional facts you can provide, Department of Defense officials will make a determination as to your institution's eligibility to receive funds by grant or contract. That decision may affect eligibility for funding from appropriations of the Departments of Defense, Transportation, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and related agencies. Should it be determined that [University] as an institution of higher education (or any subelement of the institution) is in violation of the aforementioned statutes and regulations, such funding would be stopped, and the institution of higher education (including any subelements of the institution) would remain ineligible to receive such funds until and unless the Department of Defense determines that the institution has ceased the offending policies and practices.

I regret that this action may have to be taken. Successful recruiting requires that Department of Defense recruiters have equal access to students on the campuses of colleges and universities [and student-recruiting information], and at the same time, have effective relationships with the officials and student bodies of those institutions. I hope it will be possible to identify and correct any policies or practices that inhibit military recruiting at your school. [My representative, (name), is] [I am] available to answer any of your questions by telephone at [telephone number]. I look forward to your reply.
