
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 218 - GUIDANCE FOR THE DETERMINATION AND REPORTING OF NUCLEAR RADIATION DOSE FOR DOD PARTICIPANTS IN THE ATMOSPHERIC NUCLEAR TEST PROGRAM (1945-1962)
###### ยง 218.3 Dose reconstruction methodology.
####### Concept.

(a)The specific methodology consists of the characterization of the radiation environments to which participants through all relevant activities, were exposed. The environments, both initial and residual radiation are corrected with the activities of participants to determine accrued doses due to initial radiation, residual radiation and/or inhaled/ingested radioactive material, as warranted by the radiation environment and the specific personnel activities. Due to the range of activities, times, geometries, shielding, and weapon characteristics, as well as the normal spread in the available data pertaining to the radiation environment, an uncertainty analysis is performed. This analysis quantifies the uncertainties due to time/space variations, group size, and available data. Due to the large amounts of data, an automated (computer-assisted) procedure is often used to facilitate the data-handling and the dose integration, and to investigate the sensitivity to variations in the parameters used. The results of the gamma data calculations are then compared with film badge data as they apply to the specific period of the film badges and to the comparable activities of the exposed personnel, in order to validate the procedure and to identify personnel activities that could have led to atypical doses. Radiation dose from neutrons and dose commitments due to inhaled or ingested radioactive material are not detected by film badges. Where required, these values are calculated and recorded separately.
