
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 218 - GUIDANCE FOR THE DETERMINATION AND REPORTING OF NUCLEAR RADIATION DOSE FOR DOD PARTICIPANTS IN THE ATMOSPHERIC NUCLEAR TEST PROGRAM (1945-1962)
###### ยง 218.3 Dose reconstruction methodology.
####### Characterization of the radiological environment.

(b)(1) This step describes and defines the radiological conditions as a function of time for all locations of concern, that is, where personnel were positioned or where personnel activities took place. The radiation environment is divided into two standard categories-initial radiation and residual radiation.

(2) The initial radiation environment results from several types of gamma and neutron emissions. Prompt neutron and gamma radiation are emitted at the time of detonation, while delayed neutrons and fission-product gamma, from the decay of radioactive products in the fireball, continue to be emitted as the fireball rises. In contrast to these essentially point sources of radiation, there is gamma radiation from neutron interactions with air and soil, generated within a fraction of a second. Because of the complexity of these radiation sources and their varied interaction properties with air and soil, it is necessary to obtain solutions of the Boltzmann radiation transport equation. The radiation environment thus derived includes the effects of shot-specific parameters such as weapon type and yield, neutron and gamma output, source and target geometry, and atmospheric conditions. The calculated neutron and gamma radiation environments are checked for consistency with existing measured data as available. In those few cases displaying significant discrepancies that cannot be resolved, an environment based on extrapolation of the data is used if it leads to a larger calculated dose.

(3) In determining the residual radiation environment, all possible sources are considered including radioactive clouds, radiation that may have been encountered from other tests, and radioactive debris that may have been deposited in water during oceanic tests. The residual radiation environment is divided into two general components-neutron-activated material that subsequently emits, over a period of time, beta and gamma radiation; and radioactive debris from the fission reaction or from unfissioned materials that emit alpha, beta, and gamma radiation. Because residual radiation decays, the characterization of the residual environment is defined by the radiation intensity as a function of type and time. Radiological survey data are used to determine specific intensities at times of personnel exposure. Interpolation and extrapolation are based on known decay characteristics of the individual materials that comprise the residual contamination. In those rare cases where insufficient radiation data exist to adequately define the residual environment, source data are obtained from the appropriate weapon design laboratory and applied in standard radiation transport codes to determine the initial radiation at specific distances from the burst. This radiation, together with material composition and characteristics, leads to description of the neutron-activated field for each location and time of interest. In all cases observed data, as obtained at the time of the operation, are used to calibrate the calculations.
