
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 218 - GUIDANCE FOR THE DETERMINATION AND REPORTING OF NUCLEAR RADIATION DOSE FOR DOD PARTICIPANTS IN THE ATMOSPHERIC NUCLEAR TEST PROGRAM (1945-1962)
###### ยง 218.3 Dose reconstruction methodology.
####### Activities of participants.

(c)This step uses all official records, augmented by personnel interviews where gaps exist, to depict a scenario of activities for each individual or definable group. When a dose reconstruction is performed for a specific individual, information available from the individual is accepted unless demonstrably inaccurate. For military units, whose operations were closely controlled and further constrained by radiological safety monitors, the scenario is usually well defined. The same is true for observers, who were restricted to specific locations both during and after the nuclear burst. Ships' locations and activities are usually known with a high degree of precision from deck logs. Aircraft tracks and altitudes are also usually well defined. Personnel engaged in scientific experiments often kept logs of their activities; moreover, the locations of their experiments are usually a matter of record. Where the records are insufficiently complete for the degree of precision required to determine radiation exposure, participants' comments are used and reasonable judgements are made to further the analysis. Possible variations in the activities, as well as possible individual deviations from group activities, with respect to both time and location, are considered in the uncertainty analysis of the radiation dose calculations.
