
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 218 - GUIDANCE FOR THE DETERMINATION AND REPORTING OF NUCLEAR RADIATION DOSE FOR DOD PARTICIPANTS IN THE ATMOSPHERIC NUCLEAR TEST PROGRAM (1945-1962)
###### ยง 218.3 Dose reconstruction methodology.
####### Calculation of dose.

(d)(1) The initial radiation doses to close-in personnel (who were normally positioned in trenches at the time of detonation) are calculated from the above-ground environment by simulating the radiation transport into the trenches. Various calculational approaches, standard in health physics, are employed to relate in-trench to above-trench doses for each source of radiation. Detailed modeling of the human body, in appropriate postures in the trench, is performed to calculate the gamma dose that would have been recorded on a film badge and the maximum neutron dose. The neutron, neutron-generated gamma, and prompt gamma doses are accrued during such a short time interval that the posture in a trench could not be altered significantly during this exposure. The fission-product gamma dose, however, is delivered over a period of many seconds. Therefore, the possibility of individual reorientation (e.g., standing up) in the trench is considered.

(2) The calculation of the dose from residual radiation follows from the characterized radiation environment and personnel activities. Because radiation intensities are calculated for a field (i.e., in two spatial dimensions) and in time, the radiation intensity is determinable for each increment of personnel activity regardless of direction or at what time. The dose from exposure to a radiation field is obtained by summing the contribution (product of intensity and time) to dose at each step. The dose calculated from the radiation field does not reflect the shielding of the film badge afforded by the human body. This shielding has been determined for pertinent body positions by the solution of radiation transport equations as applied to a radiation field. Conversion factors are used to arrive at a calculated film badge dose, which not only facilitates comparison with film badge data, but serves as a substitute for an unavailable film badge reading.

(3) The calculation of the dose from inhaled or ingested radioactivity primarily involves the determination of what radiosotopes entered the body in what quantity. Published conversion factors are then applied to these data to arrive at the radiation dose and future dose commitments to internal organs. Inhalation or ingestion of radioactive material is calculated from the radioactive environment and the processes of making these materials inhalable or ingestible. Activities and processes that cause material to become airborne (such as wind, decontamination or traffic) are used with empirical data on particle lofting to determine airborne concentrations under specific circumstances. Volumetric breathing rates and durations of exposure are used to calculate the total material intake. Data on time-dependent weapon debris isotopic composition and the above-mentioned conversion factors are used to calculate the dose commitment to the body and to specific body organs.
