
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 218 - GUIDANCE FOR THE DETERMINATION AND REPORTING OF NUCLEAR RADIATION DOSE FOR DOD PARTICIPANTS IN THE ATMOSPHERIC NUCLEAR TEST PROGRAM (1945-1962)
###### ยง 218.3 Dose reconstruction methodology.
####### Comparison with film badge records.

(f)(1) Calculations of gamma dose were compared with film badge records for two military units at Operation PLUMBBOB to initially validate this methodology. Where all parameters relating to radiation exposure were identified, direct comparison of gamma dose calculations with actual film badge readings was possible. Resultant correlations provided high confidence in the methodology.

(2) Film badge data may, in some cases, be unrepresentative of the total exposure of a given individual or group; nevertheless, they are extremely useful for direct comparison of incremental doses for specific periods, e.g., validating the calculations for the remaining, unbadged period of exposure. Moreover, a wide distribution of film badge data often leads to more definitive personnel grouping for dose calculations and to further investigation of the reason(s) for such distribution. In all cases, personnel film badge data are not used in the dose calculations, but rather are used solely for comparison with and validation of the calculations. For dose reconstructions accomplished to date, comparison has been favorable and within the confidence limits of the calculations.
