
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 218 - GUIDANCE FOR THE DETERMINATION AND REPORTING OF NUCLEAR RADIATION DOSE FOR DOD PARTICIPANTS IN THE ATMOSPHERIC NUCLEAR TEST PROGRAM (1945-1962)
###### ยง 218.4 Dose estimate reporting standards.

The following minimum standards for reporting dose estimates shall be uniformly applied by the Military Services when preparing information in response to an inquiry by the Veterans Administration, in connection with a claim for compensation, or by a veteran or his or her representative. The information shall include all material aspects of the radiation environment to which the veteran was exposed and shall include inhaled, ingested, and neutron doses, when applicable. In determining the veteran's dose, initial neutron, initial gamma, residual gamma, and internal (inhaled and ingested) alpha, beta, and gamma shall be considered. However, doses will be reported as gamma dose, neutron dose, and internal dose. To the extent to which the information is available, the responses will address the following questions:

(a) Can it be documented that the veteran was a test participant? If so, what tests did he attend and what were the specifics of these tests (date, time, yield (unless classified) type, location and other relevant details)?

(b) What unit was the man in? What were the mission and activities of the units at the test?

(c) To the extent to which the available records indicate, what were his duties at the test?

(d) Can you corroborate the specific information relevant to the potential exposure provided by the claimant to the Veterans Administration and forwarded to the Department of Defense? What is the impact of these specific activities on the claimant's reconstructed dose?

(e) Is there any recorded radiation exposure for the individual? Does this recorded exposure cover the full period of test participation? What are the uncertainties associated with the recorded film badge dose?

(f) If recorded dosimetry data is unavailable or incomplete, what is the dose reconstruction for the most probable dose, with error limits, if available?

(g) Is there evidence of a neutron or internal exposure? What is the reconstruction?
