
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.8 Guidelines for determining discriminatory practices.
####### Prohibitions against employment discrimination by recipients.

(b)(1) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity that receives or benefits from Federal financial assistance disbursed by the Department of Defense.

(2) The prohibition against discrimination in employment applies to the following:

(i) Recruitment, advertising, and processing of applications for employment.

(ii) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff, and rehiring.

(iii) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation.

(iv) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists.

(v) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave.

(vi) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient.

(vii) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence for training.

(viii) Programs and activities sponsored by the employer, including social and recreational programs.

(ix) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment.

(3) A recipient may not participate in a contractual or other relationship that subjects qualified handicapped applicants or employees to discrimination prohibited by this section, including relationships with employment and referral agencies, labor unions, organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient, and organizations providing training and apprenticeship programs.

(4) A recipient shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified handicapped applicant or employee unless the recipient can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of its program. Reasonable accommodation includes providing ramps, accessible restrooms, drinking fountains, interpreters for deaf employees, readers for blind employees, amplified telephones, TDDs such as Teletypewriters or Telephone Writers (TTYs), and tactile signs on elevators.

(5) A recipient may not use employment tests or criteria that discriminate against handicapped persons, and shall ensure that employment tests are adapted for use by persons who have handicaps that impair sensory, manual, or speaking skills.

(6) A recipient may not conduct a preemployment medical examination or make a preemployment inquiry about whether an applicant is a handicapped person or about the nature or severity of a handicap. A recipient may make, however, a preemployment inquiry into an applicant's ability to perform job-related functions.

(7) When a recipient is taking remedial action to correct the effects of past discrimination or is taking voluntary action to overcome the effects of conditions that have resulted in limited participation by handicapped persons in its federally assisted program or activity, the recipient may invite applicants for employment to indicate whether and to what extent they are handicapped if:

(i) The recipient makes clear to the applicants that the information is intended for use solely in connection with its remedial action obligations or its voluntary affirmative action efforts.

(ii) The recipient makes clear to the applicants that the information is being requested on a voluntary basis, that it will be kept confidential as provided in paragraph (b)(9) in this section, that refusal to provide it will not subject the applicants to any adverse treatment, and that it will be used only in accordance with this part.

(8) Nothing in this section shall prohibit a recipient from conditioning an offer of employment on the results of a medical examination conducted prior to the employee's entrance on duty if:

(i) All entering employees are subjected to such an examination, regardless of handicap.

(ii) The results of such an examination are used only in accordance with this part which prohibits discrimination against a qualified handicapped person on the basis of handicap.

(9) Information obtained under this section concerning the medical condition or history of applicants shall be collected and maintained on separate forms that shall be accorded confidentiality as medical records, except that:

(i) Supervisors and managers may be informed about restrictions on the work or duties of handicapped persons and about necessary accommodations.

(ii) First aid and safety personnel may be informed, when appropriate, if a handicapping condition might require emergency treatment.

(iii) Government officials investigating compliance with section 504, Pub. L. 93-112, and this part shall be provided relevant information upon request.
