
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.8 Guidelines for determining discriminatory practices.
####### Existing facilities.

(2)(i) A recipient or DoD Component shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This does not necessarily require a recipient or DoD Component to make each of its existing facilities or every part of an existing facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. For guidance in determining the accessibility of facilities, see chapter 18 of DoD 4270.1-M, "Department of Defense Construction Criteria Manual," June 1, 1978, and Department of the Army, Office of the Chief of Engineers, Manual EM 1110-1-103, "Design for the Physically Handicapped," October 15, 1976. Inquiries on specific accessibility design problems may be addressed to the ASD (MRA&L), or designee.

(ii) When structural changes are necessary to make programs or activities in existing facilities accessible to the extent required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(A) Such changes shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 years after the effective date of this part however, if the program or activity is a particular mode of transportation (such as a subway station) that can be made accessible only through extraordinarily expensive structural changes to, or replacement of, existing facilities and if other accessible modes of transportation are available, the DoD Component concerned may extend this period of time. This extension shall be for a reasonable and definite period, which shall be determined after consultation with the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.

(B) The recipient or DoD Component shall develop, with the assistance of interested persons or organizations and within a period to be established in each DoD Component's guidelines, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes.

(C) The recipient or DoD Component shall make a copy of the transition plan available for public inspection. At a minimum, the plan shall:
