
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 220 - COLLECTION FROM THIRD PARTY PAYERS OF REASONABLE CHARGES FOR HEALTHCARE SERVICES
###### ยง 220.1 Purpose and applicability.

(a) This part implements the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1095, 1097b(b), and 1079b. In general, 10 U.S.C. 1095 establishes the statutory obligation of third party payers to reimburse the United States the reasonable charges of healthcare services provided by facilities of the Uniformed Services to covered beneficiaries who are also covered by a third party payer's plan. Section 1097b(b) elaborates on the methods for computation of reasonable charges. Section 1079b addresses charges for civilian patients who are not normally beneficiaries of the Military Health System. This part establishes the Department of Defense interpretations and requirements applicable to all healthcare services subject to 10 U.S.C. 1095, 1097b(b), and 1079b.

(b) This part applies to all facilities of the Uniformed Services; the Department of Transportation administers this part with respect to facilities to the Coast Guard, not the Department of Defense.

(c) This part applies to pathology services provided by the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology. However, in lieu of the rules and procedures otherwise applicable under this part, the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) may establish special rules and procedures under the authority of 10 U.S.C. 176 and 177 in relation to cooperative enterprises between the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the American Registry of Pathology.
