
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.8 Guidelines for determining discriminatory practices.
####### Historic properties.

(4)(i) In the case of historic properties, program accessibility shall mean that, when viewed in their entirety, programs are readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. Because the primary benefit of historic properties is the experience of the property itself, DoD Components and recipients shall give priority to those methods of achieving program accessibility that make the historic property, or portions thereof, physically accessible to handicapped persons.

(ii) Methods of achieving program accessibility include:

(A) Making physical alterations that give handicapped persons access to otherwise inaccessible areas or features of historic properties.

(B) Using audiovisual materials and devices to depict otherwise inaccessible areas or features of historic properties.

(C) Assigning individuals to guide handicapped persons into or through otherwise inaccessible portions of historic properties.

(D) Adopting other innovative methods.

(iii) When program accessibility cannot be achieved without causing a substantial impairment of significant historic features, the DoD Component or recipient may seek a modification or waiver of access standards from the ASD (MRA&L), or designee.

(A) A decision to grant a modification or waiver shall be based on consideration of the following:
