
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.8 Guidelines for determining discriminatory practices.
####### Reasonable accommodation.

(d)(1) A recipient or DoD Component shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified handicapped applicant or employee unless the recipient or DoD Component demonstrates to the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of its program.

(2) Reasonable accommodation includes the following:

(i) Making facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.

(ii) Job restructuring; part-time or modified work schedules; acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, such as telecommunication or other telephonic instruments; the provision of readers or certified sign-language interpreters; and similar actions.

(3) In determining whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of a recipient's or DoD Component's program, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall consider the following factors, at a minimum:

(i) The overall size of the recipient's or DoD Component's program or activity, such as the number of employees, number and type of facilities, and size of budget.

(ii) The size of the recipient's or DoD Component's operations, including the composition and structure of the recipient's or DoD Component's workforce.

(iii) The nature and cost of the accommodation needed.

(4) A recipient or DoD Component may not deny any employment opportunity to a qualified handicapped employee or applicant for employment if the basis for the denial is the need to make reasonable accommodation to the physical or mental limitations of the employee or applicant.
