
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Supplementary guidelines issued by DoD Components.

(a)(1) Whenever necessary, DoD Components shall publish supplementary guidelines for each type of program or activity to which they disburse Federal financial assistance within 120 days of the effective date of this part or of the effective date of any subsequent statute authorizing Federal financial assistance to a new type of program or activity. DoD Components shall obtain approval of these supplementary guidelines from the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, before issuing them. Prior to their issuance, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall submit supplementary guidelines prepared pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section to the Coordination and Review Section, Civil Rights Division, Department of Justice, for review and approval. To the extent that supplementary guidelines issued by DoD Components deal with the employment of civilians in programs and activities subject to this part the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall also obtain the approval of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) in accordance with Executive Order 12067.

(2) The ASD(MRA&L), or designee, and DoD Components shall ensure that their supplementary guidelines conform to the requirements of this part and that they provide:

(i) A description of the types of programs and activities covered.

(ii) Examples of prohibited practices likely to arise with respect to those types of programs and activities.

(iii) A list of the data collection and reporting requirements of the recipients.

(iv) Procedures for processing and investigating complaints.

(v) Procedures for hearings to determine compliance by recipients with this part.

(vi) Requirements or suggestions for affirmative action on behalf of qualified handicapped persons.

(vii) Requirements for the dissemination of program and complaint information to the public.

(viii) A description of the form of the assurances that must be executed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, and sample assurances.

(ix) Requirements concerning the frequency and nature of postapproval reviews conducted pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section.

(x) A period of time, provided for by ยง 56.8(c)(2)(ii)(B), for the development of a transition plan that sets out the steps necessary to complete structural changes that might be required by ยง 56.8(c).

(xi) The maximum period of time that may be allowed for extensions that might be granted pursuant to ยง 56.8(c)(2)(ii).

(xii) An appendix that contains a list of identified programs and activities of the type covered by the supplementary guidelines, including the names of the programs and activities and the authorizing statute, regulation, or directive for each program and activity.

(xiii) Requirements for the recipient to designate a responsible official to coordinate the implementation of supplementary guidelines.

(xiv) Requirements for any other actions or procedures necessary to implement this part.

(3) When the head of a DoD Component determines that it would not be appropriate to include on or more of the provisions described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in the supplementary guidelines of that DoD Component or that it is not necessary to issue such guidelines at all, the reasons for such determination shall be stated in writing and submitted to the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, for review and approval. Once that determination is approved, the DoD Component shall make it available to the public upon request.

(4) The heads of DoD Components, or designees, shall be responsible for keeping the supplementary guidelines current and accurate. When a DoD Component determines that a program or activity should be added to or deleted from the guidelines, the DoD Component shall notify the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, in writing.
