
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Required assurances.

(b)(1) DoD Components shall require all recipients to file written assurances that their programs or activities will be conducted in accordance with this part and supplementary guidelines promulgated by DoD Components. If a recipient fails to provide an assurance that conforms to the requirements of this section, the DoD Component shall attempt to effect compliance pursuant to paragraphs (f) through (h) of this section, provided that if assistance is due and payable to the recipient based on an application approved prior to the effective date of this part the DoD Component shall continue the assistance while any proceedings required by paragraphs (n) through (v) of this section, are pending.

(2) DoD Components shall advise each recipient of the required elements of the assurance and, with respect to each program or activity, of the extent to which those receiving assistance from recipients shall be required to execute similar assurances.

(3) DoD Component shall ensure that each assurance:

(i) Obligates the recipient to advise the DoD Component of any complaints received that allege discrimination against handicapped persons.

(ii) Obligates the recipient to collect and provide the items of information that the DoD Component lists in its supplementary guidelines pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(iii) Is made applicable to any Federal financial assistance that might be disbursed by a DoD Component without the submission of a new application.

(iv) Obligates the recipient, when the financial assistance is in the form of property, for the period during which the property is used under a financial assistance agreement or is possessed by the recipient.

(v) Includes a provision recognizing that the U.S. Government has the right to seek judicial enforcement of section 504 and this part.
