
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Self-evaluation and consultation with interested persons and organizations.

(c)(1) DoD Components shall require recipients to conduct, within 6 months of the effective date of this part or of first receiving Federal financial assistance disbursed by the Department of Defense, a self-evaluation with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations that represent them. When appropriate, DoD Components also shall require recipients to consult at least annually with such persons. The "Department of Health, Education, and Welfare Section 504 Technical Assistance Reserve Directory," April 1980, shall be consulted to identify likely sources for consultation. In conducting its self-evaluation, each recipient shall:

(i) Evaluate the effects of its policies and practices with respect to its compliance with this part and the applicable DoD Component's supplementary guidelines.

(ii) Modify any policies that do not meet such requirements.

(iii) Take appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the discriminatory effects of any such policies or practices.

(2) For at least 3 years following the completion of a self-evaluation required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a recipient shall maintain on file, make available for public inspection, and provide to the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, upon request:

(i) A list of the interested persons (last names, first names, and middle initials) consulted.

(ii) A description of areas examined and problems identified, if any, with respect to those areas.

(iii) A description of any modification made and remedial steps taken.
