
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Dissemination of information.

(d)(1) Within 90 days of the effective date of this part or of first receiving assistance from the Department of Defense and on a continuing basis thereafter, each recipient shall notify beneficiaries and employees of their rights under this part and shall take appropriate steps to notify participants, beneficiaries, applicants for employment and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, and unions or professional organizations involved in collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that the recipient does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in violation of this part. The notification shall state, when appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in admitting or providing access to or treating or employing persons in its programs and activities. Such notification may be accomplished by posting notices, publishing announcements in newspapers and magazines, placing notices in its publications, or distributing memoranda or other written communications.

(2) If a recipient publishes or uses and makes available to participants, beneficiaries, applicants for employment, or employees recruitment materials or publications containing general information about the recipient's programs and activities, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. This may be accomplished by including appropriate inserts in existing materials and publications or by revising and reprinting the materials and publications.

(3) Understandable materials developed in accordance with this section shall be provided to ensure that all beneficiaries and employees of the recipient understand the information. In addition, recipients shall disseminate appropriate and comprehensive information about formal and informal complaint and appeal procedures, including directions on how and where to file complaints and to appeal DoD Component decisions.
