
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 222 - DOD MANDATORY DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW (MDR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 222.5 MDR processing procedures.
####### General.

(a)The DoD Components shall process MDR requests from the public for classified information originating within the DoD Component in accordance with DoD 5200.1-R and 32 CFR part 2001.

(b) Information not subject to review for public release under the MDR includes:

(1) Unclassified information (to include documents) or previously classified documents that are declassified prior to the receipt of the MDR request. These documents must be requested under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (also known and hereinafter referred to as the "Freedom of Information Act" (FOIA) and 32 CFR part 286.

(2) Information (to include documents) reviewed for declassification within 2 years preceding the date of receipt of the MDR request. If this is the case, the requester shall be provided the documents as previously released and advised of the right to appeal to the DoD Component within 60 days unless the documents are already under appeal to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP).

(3) Information exempted from search and review by statute of 50 U.S.C. 431, 432, 432a, 432b, and 432d.

(4) Documents originated by the incumbent President; the incumbent President's White House Staff; committees, commissions, or boards appointed by the incumbent President; or other entities within the Executive Office of the President that solely advise and assist the incumbent President.

(5) Information marked as Restricted Data or Formerly Restricted Data.

(6) Information that is the subject of pending litigation.
