
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 222 - DOD MANDATORY DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW (MDR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 222.5 MDR processing procedures.
####### MDR Document Review Process.

(f)(1) Requests normally will be processed on a first in first out basis by date of receipt.

(2) Every effort shall be made to ensure that a response to an MDR request is provided to the requester within 1 year from the date of receipt.

(3) The DoD Components shall conduct line-by-line reviews of documents responsive to an MDR request to determine if the information contained within the documents continues to adhere to the standards for classification according to Executive Order 13526 Classified National Security Information. This line-by-line review must take into account the unique sensitivity of FGI as outlined in paragraph (h) of this section. In accordance with section 3.6(b) of Executive Order 13526 Classified National Security Information, classified information originating with another U.S. Government agency contained in records of the DoD Components will be referred to the originating agency for a declassification and release determination. Likewise, classified information in a DoD Component's records originating with another DoD Component will be referred to the originating Component. It is the responsibility of the DoD Component originally receiving the MDR request to manage these referrals and to incorporate the other agency's or DoD Component's determinations when preparing the final decision on the request. The review of each document will determine if the document:

(i) No longer meets the standards for classification as established by Executive Order 13526 "Classified National Security Information", and is therefore declassified in full.

(ii) Contains portions still meeting the standards for classification and is therefore declassified in part and denied in part.

(iii) Still meets the standards for classification in its entirety and is therefore denied in full.

(4) For documents meeting the criteria of paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (f)(3)(ii) of this section, the DoD Components shall not release any unclassified information exempt from public release pursuant to Exemptions 2 through 9 of the FOIA. DoD 5400.7-R, "DoD Freedom of Information Act Program" provides a more detailed explanation of the FOIA exemptions.

(5) When this process is complete, the DoD Components shall redact all information, both classified and unclassified, determined to be exempt from release as warranted under applicable law and authority. All of the remaining information within the documents, which is determined to be publicly releasable information, shall be provided promptly to the requester.
