
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 222 - DOD MANDATORY DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW (MDR) PROGRAM
###### ยง 222.5 MDR processing procedures.
####### Denial of Information.

(i)(1) When classified information is denied, the DoD Component shall advise the requester, in writing:

(i) That information currently and properly classified has been denied (whether a document in its entirety or partially) in accordance with the appropriate sections of Executive Order 13526 Classified National Security Information.

(ii) Of the right to appeal the denial to the DoD Component within 60 days of receipt of the denial.

(iii) Of the mailing address for the appellate authority.

(2) When unclassified information is withheld because it is determined to be exempt from release pursuant to Exemptions 2 through 9 of the FOIA (whether or not classified information was also withheld within the same document), the DoD Component shall advise the requester that:

(i) Section 3.5(c) of Executive Order 13526 Classified National Security Information allows for the denial of information when withholding it is authorized and warranted under applicable law.

(ii) Unclassified information exempt from public release pursuant to one or more exemptions of the FOIA has been withheld.

(3) For the denial of unclassified information, the requester shall not be given MDR appeal rights because the MDR applies only to the denial of classified information and because the request was not processed under the FOIA.

(4) The DoD Component is not required to confirm or deny the existence or nonexistence of requested information whenever the fact of its existence or nonexistence is itself classified pursuant to Executive Order 13526 Classified National Security Information.
