
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Filing of complaints against recipients.

(i)(1) DoD Components shall establish and publish in their supplementary guidelines procedures for the prompt processing and disposition of complaints against recipients, consistent with this section.

(2) A DoD Component shall consider all complaints that: (i) Are filed with it within 180 days of the alleged discrimination or within a longer period of time if an extension is granted for good cause by the DoD Component with the approval of the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.

(ii) Include the name, address, and telephone number, if any, of the complainant; the name and address of the recipient committing the alleged discrimination; a description of the acts or omissions considered to be discriminatory; and other pertinent information.

(iii) Are signed by the complainant or the complainant's authorized representative (legal counsel or a person with power of attorney granted by the complainant).

(3) DoD Components shall transmit a copy of each complaint filed with them to the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, within 10 calendar days after its receipt.

(4) If the information in a complaint is incomplete, the DoD Component shall request the complainant to provide the additional information required. If the DoD Component does not receive this requested information within 30 calendar days of the date of the request, the case may be closed and the complainant so notified in writing.

(5) If a complaint concerning a program or activity is filed with a DoD Component that does not have jurisdiction over it, the DoD Component shall refer the complaint to the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, and advise the complainant in writing of such referral. The ASD(MRA&L), or designee, then shall refer the complaint to the appropriate DoD Component and so notify the complainant in writing.
