
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 223 - DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION (UCNI)
###### ยง 223.6 Procedures-identifying and controlling DoD UCNI.
####### Identifying DoD UCNI.

(b)(1) To be designated and protected as DoD UCNI, information must:

(i) Be unclassified.

(ii) Pertain to security measures, including plans, procedures, and equipment, for the physical protection of DoD SNM, SNM equipment, SNM facilities, or nuclear weapons in DoD custody.

(iii) Meet the adverse effects test.

(2) Information shall be protected as DoD UCNI if it qualifies for one or more of the categories listed in ยง 223.7(c) and meets the criteria in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) DoD personnel, in making a determination to protect unclassified information as DoD UCNI, shall consider the probability of illegal production of nuclear weapons or of theft, diversion, or sabotage of DoD SNM, SNM equipment, SNM facilities, or nuclear weapons in DoD custody if the information proposed for protection were made available for public disclosure and dissemination. The cognizant official shall consider how the unauthorized disclosure or dissemination of such information could assist a potential adversary in:

(i) Selecting a target for an act of theft, diversion, or sabotage of nuclear weapons in DoD custody, DoD SNM, SNM equipment, or SNM facilities (e.g., relative importance of a facility or the location, form, and quantity of DoD SNM). Information that can be obtained by observation from public areas outside controlled locations should not be considered as DoD UCNI.

(ii) Planning or committing an act of theft, diversion, or sabotage of nuclear weapons in DoD custody, DoD SNM, SNM equipment, or SNM facilities (e.g., design of security systems; building plans; methods and procedures for transfer, accountability, and handling of nuclear weapons or DoD SNM; or security plans, procedures, and capabilities).

(iii) Measuring the success of an act of theft, diversion, or sabotage of nuclear weapons in DoD custody, DoD SNM, SNM equipment, or SNM facilities (e.g., actual or hypothetical consequences of the sabotage of specific vital equipment or facilities).

(iv) Illegally producing a nuclear explosive device (e.g., unclassified nuclear weapon design information useful in designing a primitive nuclear device; location of unique DoD SNM needed to fabricate such a device; or location of a nuclear weapon).

(v) Dispersing DoD SNM in the environment (e.g., location, form, and quantity of DoD SNM).

(c) Where questions or disagreements arise on designation or continued protection of information as DoD UCNI, the reviewing official appointed by the ASD(NCB) shall make the final determination. If a determination cannot be made because applicable guidance is unclear or does not exist, the document or material in question shall be referred to the reviewing official for a determination.
