
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 223 - DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION (UCNI)
###### ยง 223.6 Procedures-identifying and controlling DoD UCNI.
####### Marking DoD UCNI.

(e)(1) An unclassified document with DoD UCNI shall be marked "DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION" (or abbreviated "DOD UCNI") at the bottom on: the outside of the front cover, if any; the outside of the back cover, if any; the first page; and each individual page containing DoD UCNI.

(2) Within an unclassified document, an individual page containing DoD UCNI shall be marked to show which of its portions contain DoD UCNI. In marking sections, parts, paragraphs, or similar portions, the parenthetical term "(DCNI)" shall be used and placed at the beginning of the applicable portions.

(3) In a classified document, an individual page that has both DoD UCNI and classified information shall be marked at the top and bottom of the page with the highest security classification of information appearing on that page or with the overall classification of the document. In marking sections, parts, paragraphs, or similar portions, the parenthetical term "(U//DCNI)" shall be used and placed at the beginning of those portions containing DoD UCNI. In a classified document, an individual page that has DoD UCNI, but no classified information, shall be marked "UNCLASSIFIED//DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION" (or "UNCLASSIFIED//DOD UCNI") at the top and bottom of the page, unless the page is marked with the overall classification of the document. The DoD UCNI information may be included in the same portion with other classified or unclassified information, if all relevant statutory and regulatory markings and citations are included. Volume 2 of DoD Manual 5200.01provides additional guidance on marking classified documents.

(4) Other material (e.g., electronic media, photographs, films, tapes, or slides) containing DoD UCNI shall be conspicuously marked "DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION" (or "DOD UCNI"), in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section, to ensure that a recipient or viewer is aware of the status of the information.
