
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 223 - DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION (UCNI)
###### ยง 223.6 Procedures-identifying and controlling DoD UCNI.
####### Dissemination and Transmission.

(e)(1) DoD UCNI may be disseminated among the DoD Components, members of the Intelligence Community, NATO, and DoD contractors, consultants, and grantees on a need-to-know basis for the conduct of official business for the Department of Defense. Dissemination to NATO or other foreign or international entities requires prior review and approval by the appropriate dissemination entity.

(2) Recipients shall be made aware of the status as DoD UCNI for all such information disseminated to them. Transmission of DoD UCNI shall be by means which preclude unauthorized disclosure or dissemination (e.g., secure phone, encrypted email).

(3) Documents containing DoD UCNI shall be marked as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section. Transmittal documents shall call attention to the presence of DoD UCNI attachments using an appropriate statement in the text or including at the bottom of the transmittal document a statement similar to: "The attached document contains DoD Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (DoD UCNI)."

(4) DoD UCNI transmitted outside the Department of Defense requires application of an expanded marking to explain the significance of the DoD UCNI marking. That may be accomplished by adding the transmittal statement "DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE/UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION/EXEMPT FROM MANDATORY DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3), AS AUTHORIZED BY 10 U.S.C. 128" to the document cover before transfer.

(5) When not commingled with classified information, DoD UCNI may be sent by first-class mail in a single, opaque envelope, or wrapping.

(6) DoD UCNI shall not be discussed or transmitted over an unprotected telephone or telecommunications circuit (to include facsimile transmissions) except in case of an emergency.

(7) Each part of electronically transmitted messages containing DoD UCNI portions shall be marked appropriately. Unclassified messages, including email, with DoD UCNI portions shall have the abbreviation "DOD UCNI" at the top of the message, before the beginning of the text, and the parenthetical marking "(DCNI)" preceding each portion of text containing DoD UCNI information. Classified messages containing DoD UCNI portions shall be marked with the highest classification of information within the message; use the parenthetical marking "(U//DCNI)" preceding each portion of text containing DoD UCNI information.

(8) DoD UCNI processed, stored, or produced on stand-alone or networked computers or other information technology systems shall enforce protection from unauthorized disclosure or dissemination, in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (f) of this section.

(9) A document marked as having DoD UCNI may be reproduced minimally without permission of the originator and consistent with the need to carry out official business.
