
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 223 - DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION (UCNI)
###### ยง 223.6 Procedures-identifying and controlling DoD UCNI.
####### Safeguarding DoD UCNI.

(f)(1) During normal working hours, documents and materials determined to contain DoD UCNI shall be safeguarded and controlled by measures designed to reduce the risk of access to DoD UCNI by unauthorized individuals. Particular attention should be paid to areas where DoD UCNI is used or stored if unescorted access by unauthorized individuals is possible.

(2) At the close of business, DoD UCNI shall be stored to preclude disclosure. Storage of such information with other unclassified information in unlocked receptacles (e.g., desks, bookcases) is adequate if Government or Government-contractor internal building security is provided during non-duty hours. When such internal building security is not provided, locked rooms or buildings normally provide adequate after-hours protection. If such protection is not considered adequate, DoD UCNI shall be stored in locked receptacles (e.g., locked file cabinet, locked desk drawer, safe).

(3) Non-record copies of DoD UCNI shall be destroyed by shredding or burning or, if the sensitivity or volume of the information justifies it, in accordance with the procedures specified by Volume 3 of DoD Manual 5200.01for classified information. Record copies of DoD UCNI shall be disposed of in accordance with the DoD Component's record management regulations. DoD UCNI on magnetic storage media shall be disposed of by overwriting to preclude its reconstruction. DoD UCNI in electronic form shall be deleted and also removed from any desktop trash or recycling files.

(4) Unauthorized dissemination and disclosure of DoD UCNI justifies investigative and administrative actions to determine cause, assess impact, and fix responsibility. The DoD Component that originated the DoD UCNI shall be informed of its unauthorized disclosure and the outcome of the investigative and administrative actions. Unauthorized disclosure of DoD UCNI does not constitute a compromise of classified information.
