
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Investigations by recipients.

(k)(1) A DoD Component may require or permit recipients to investigate complaints alleging violation of this part. In such cases, the DoD Component shall:

(i) Ensure that the recipient investigates the complaints in accordance with the standards, procedures, and requirements prescribed in paragraph (j) of this section.

(ii) Require the recipient to submit a written report of each complaint and investigation to the DoD Component.

(iii) Retain a review responsibility over the investigation and disposition of each complaint.

(iv) Ensure that each complaint investigation is completed within 180 calendar days of the receipt of the complaint by the proper DoD Component, unless an extension of time is granted for good cause by the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.

(v) Require the recipient to maintain a log of all complaints filed against it, as described in ยง 56.6(a)(1).

(2) DoD Components that require or permit complaint investigations to be conducted by recipients shall review recipient complaint investigations pursuant to paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section.
