
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 226 - SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS
###### ยง 226.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment) (DUSD(I&E)), under the authority, direction and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, shall administer the program and issue such supplemental guidance as is necessary.

(b) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall provide guidance on the use of Department of Defense funds to finance the items issued in support of the Shelter for the Homeless program.

(c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:

(1) Implement the Shelter for the Homeless program.

(2) Appoint a senior manager to monitor the program within the Department and to provide any assistance that may be required to the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment) (ODUSD(I&E)). Such official, after consultation with the ODUSD(I&E), shall approve or disapprove all requests to establish a shelter in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2556 and this part.

(3) Ensure that upon receipt of a formal request for assistance, as defined in ยง 226.3(h) of this part, the Military Department concerned provides an appropriate response to the requester within 30 days.

(4) Ensure that each Installation Commander is informed about the Program and the types of assistance that they may provide as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2556.

(d) Department of Defense Installation Commanders shall:

(1) Acknowledge all requests for assistance.

(2) Upon receipt of a request, initiate such action as is necessary to determine the availability of facilities at that installation for use as a shelter for the homeless.

(3) Forward each request, through the chain of command, to the Service Senior Manager with a copy to the DUSD(I&E). The Installation Commander's recommendation shall accompany each request.
