
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Attempting to achieve voluntary compliance by recipients.

(p)(1) If a DoD Component issues a notice pursuant to paragraph (o) of this section, the DoD Component shall attempt to meet with the recipient and shall attempt to persuade it to take the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this part.

(2) If a recipient agrees to take remedial steps to achieve compliance, the DoD Component shall require that the agreement be in writing and:

(i) Be signed by the head of the DoD Component concerned, or designee, and by the principal official of the recipient.

(ii) Specify the action necessary to achieve compliance.

(iii) Be made available to the public upon request.

(iv) Be subject to the approval of the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.

(3) If satisfactory adjustment or a written agreement has not been achieved within 60 calendar days of the recipient's receipt of the notice issued pursuant to paragraph (o) of this section, the DoD Component shall notify the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, and state the reasons therefor.

(4) The DoD Component shall initiate the enforcement actions prescribed in paragraphs (r) through (v) of this section if:

(i) The recipient does not respond to a notice pursuant to paragraph (o) of this section, within 15 calendar days of its receipt and satisfactory adjustments are not made within 45 calendar days of the date of the recipient's response; or

(ii) The DoD Component or the ASD (MRA&L) determines at any time within 90 days after the recipient receives a notice pursuant to paragraph (o) of this section, that, despite reasonable efforts, it is not likely that the recipient will comply promptly and voluntarily.

(5) If, pursuant to paragraph (p)(4) of this section, the DoD Component initiates enforcement action, it also shall continue its attempts to persuade the recipient to comply voluntarily.
