
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.3 Responsibilities.

(a) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)) shall develop and monitor policies governing establishment, operation, and termination of financial institutions on DoD installations and take final action on requests for exceptions to this part.

(b) The Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology and Logistics) (USD(AT&L)) shall monitor policies and procedures governing logistical support furnished to financial institutions on DoD installations, including the use of DoD real property and equipment.

(c) The Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) (USD(P&R)) shall advise the USD(C) on all aspects of on-base financial institution services that affect the morale and welfare of DoD personnel.

(d) The Director, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) shall:

(1) Develop procedures governing banks and credit unions on DoD installations for promulgation in this part.

(2) For domestic DoD installations, coordinate with the Secretaries of the Military Departments (or designees) on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or terminate banking offices or on-base credit unions. For overseas DoD installations, coordinate with the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or discontinue the provision of financial services from the on-base financial institution under contract with the Department of Defense or to establish or terminate banking offices or credit unions located on DoD installations.

(3) In coordination with affected DoD Components, authorize the specific types of banking services that will be provided by overseas military banking facilities (MBFs) and specify the charges or fees, or the basis for these, to be levied on users of these services.

(4) Coordinate with the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury on the designation of domestic and overseas MBFs as depositaries and financial agents of the U.S. Government.

(5) Designate a technical representative to provide policy direction for the procuring and administrative contracting officer(s) responsible under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) for acquiring banking services required at overseas DoD installations.

(6) Serve as principal liaison with banking institutions having offices on overseas DoD installations. In this capacity, monitor MBF managerial and operational policies, procedures, and operating results and take action as appropriate.

(7) As necessary, assist in the formation of government-to-government agreements for the provision of banking services on overseas DoD installations, in accordance with DoD Directive 5530.3.

(8) Provide procedural guidance to DoD Components, as required.

(9) Maintain liaison with financial institution trade associations, leagues, and councils in order to interpret DoD policies toward respective memberships and aid in resolving mutual concerns affecting the provision of financial services.

(10) Coordinate with the USD(P&R), through the USD(C), on all aspects of morale and welfare and with the USD(AT&L), through the USD(C), on all aspects of logistic support for on-base financial institutions.

(11) Monitor industry trends, conduct studies and surveys, and facilitate appropriate dialogues on banking and credit union arrangements and cost-benefit relationships, coordinate as necessary with DoD Components, financial institutions, and trade associations as appropriate.

(12) Maintain liaison, as appropriate, with financial institution regulatory agencies at federal and state levels.

(13) Ensure that recommendations of the Combatant Commands are considered before processing requests for overseas banking and credit union service or related actions.

(14) Maintain a listing of all geographic franchises assigned to credit unions serving DoD overseas installations.

(e) Secretaries of the Military Departments (or designees) shall:

(1) For domestic DoD installations, take action on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or terminate financial institution operations. For overseas DoD installations, take action in accordance with guidance contained herein on requests from subordinate installation commanders to establish or discontinue the provision of financial services from the DoD contracted banking institution, or to establish or terminate other financial institutions located on DoD installations.

(2) Provide for liaison to those financial institutions that operate banking offices on respective domestic DoD installations.

(3) Oversee the use of banking offices and credit unions on respective DoD installations within the guidance contained herein and in DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230).

(4) Evaluate the services provided and related charges and fees by respective on-base banking offices and credit unions to ensure that they fulfill the requirements upon which the establishment and retention of those services were justified.

(5) Monitor practices and procedures of respective banking offices and credit unions to ensure that the welfare and interests of DoD personnel as consumers are protected.

(6) Assist on-base banking offices and credit unions to develop and expand necessary services for DoD personnel consistent with this part.

(7) Encourage the conversion of existing domestic MBFs on respective installations to independent or branch bank status where feasible.

(8) Provide logistical support to overseas MBFs under terms and conditions identified in this part as well as with the applicable terms of DoD contracts with financial institutions responsible for the operations of overseas MBFs.

(9) Refer matters requiring policy decisions or proposed changes to this part or DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230) to the USD(C) through the Director, DFAS.

(10) Monitor and encourage the use of financial institutions on DoD installations to accomplish the following ends.

(i) Facilitate convenient, effective management of the appropriated, nonappropriated, and private funds of on-base activities.

(ii) Assist DoD personnel in managing their personal finances through participation in programs such as direct deposit and regular savings plans, including U.S. savings bonds. The use of on-base financial institutions shall be on a voluntary basis and should not be urged in preference to, or to the exclusion of, other financial institutions.

(11) Encourage and assist duly chartered financial institutions on domestic DoD installations to provide complete financial services to include, without charge, basic financial education and counseling services. Financial education and counseling services refer to basic personal and family finances such as budgeting, checkbook balancing and account reconciliation, benefits of savings, prudent use of credit, how to start a savings program, how to shop and apply for credit, and the consequences of excessive credit.

(12) Establish liaison, as appropriate, with federal and state regulatory agencies and financial institution trade associations, leagues, and councils.

(13) Make military locator services available to on-base financial institutions in accordance with the Privacy Act guidelines in subpart B of this part.

(14) Permit DoD personnel to serve on volunteer boards or committees of on-base financial institutions, without compensation, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 5500.7.

(15) Allow DoD personnel to attend conferences and meetings that bring together representatives of on-base financial institutions, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 1327.5,subchapter 630 of the DoD Civilian Personnel Manual (DoD 1400.25-M), and Comptroller General Decision B-212457.

(f) The Commanders of the Combatant Commands (or designees) shall:

(1) Ensure the appropriate coordination of the following types of requests affecting financial institutions overseas.

(i) Establish financial institutions in countries not presently served. Such requests will include a statement that the requirement has been coordinated with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy and that the host country will permit the operation.

(ii) Eliminate any or all financial institutions on DoD installations within a foreign country. Such requests will include a statement that the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission has been informed and that appropriate arrangements to coordinate local termination announcements and procedures have been made with the U.S. Embassy.

(2) Monitor and coordinate military banking operations within the command area. Personnel assigned to security assistance positions will not perform this function without the prior approval of the Director, Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA).

(g) The Commanders of Major Commands and subordinate installation commanders shall:

(1) Monitor the banking and credit union program within their commands.

(2) Coordinate requests to establish or construct bank and credit union offices or terminate logistical support as specified in this part to banks and credit unions within their commands. Personnel assigned to overseas security assistance positions will not monitor, coordinate, or assist in military banking operations without the prior approval of the DSCA.

(3) Assign, as appropriate, responsibility for paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, to comptroller or resource management personnel.

(4) Cooperate with financial institution associations, leagues, and councils.

(5) Recognize the right of all DoD personnel to organize and join credit unions and promote the credit union movement in DoD worldwide.

(6) Permit DoD personnel to serve on volunteer boards or committees of on-base financial institutions, without compensation, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 5500.7.

(7) Allow DoD personnel to attend conferences and meetings that bring together representatives of on-base financial institutions, when neither a conflict of duty nor a conflict of interest is involved, in accordance with DoD Directive 1327.5, Subchapter 630 of the DoD Civilian Personnel Manual (DoD 1400.25-M), and Comptroller General Decision B-212457.

(8) Seek the provision of financial services only from existing on-base financial institutions, proposing alternatives only where on-base financial institutions fail to respond favorably to a valid requirement.
