
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.4 General provisions.
######## Central locator services.

(b)Military locator services shall be provided per the guidelines in subpart B of this part.

(1) When appropriate, installations will process financial institution requests for central locator service to obtain military addresses of active duty personnel. This service will be used to locate persons for settling accounts, and recovering funds on checks that did not clear or loans that are delinquent or in default (see DoD Directive 1344.9). If delinquent loans or dishonored checks are not recouped within 48 hours, financial institutions operating on DoD installations may bring this information to the attention of the local commander, bank liaison officer, or other designee for assistance in effecting restitution of the amount due, if not otherwise prohibited by law. The financial institution will pay the appropriate fee for each request to the respective Military Department.

(2) The DoD Components shall assist financial institutions to locate DoD personnel whose whereabouts cannot be locally determined. The request should be on the financial institution's letterhead, include the Service member's name and social security number, and cite the cognizant Military Service regulation that authorizes the use of locator services. If a financial institution needs immediate service, the cognizant institution official should contact the bank or credit union liaison officer.

(i) For addresses of Department of the Army active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (703) 325-3732 or write to: Department of the Army Worldwide Locator, U.S. Army Enlisted Record and Evaluation Center, 8899 E. 56th Street, Indianapolis, IN 46249-5301.

(ii) For addresses of Navy active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (901) 874-3388 or write to: Navy Personnel Command, PERS-312F, 5720 Integrity Drive, Millington, TN 38055-3120.

(iii) For addresses of Department of the Air Force active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (210) 565-2660 or write to: Air Force Personnel Center, MSIMDL Suite 50, 550 C Street West, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4752.

(iv) For addresses of United States Marine Corps active, retired, separated and civilian personnel, financial institutions may telephone (703) 784-3942 or write to:
