
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.4 General provisions.
######## Advertising.

(c)(1) An on-base financial institution may use the unofficial section of that installation's daily bulletin, provided space is available, to inform DoD personnel of financial services and announce seminars, consumer information programs, and other matters of broad general interest. Announcements of free financial counseling services are encouraged. Such media may not be used for competitive or comparative advertising of, for example, specific interest rates on savings or loans.

(2) An on-base financial institution may use installation bulletin boards, newsletters or web pages to post general information that complements the installation's financial counseling programs and promotes financial responsibility and thrift. Message center services may distribute a reasonable number of announcements to units for use on bulletin boards so long as this does not impose an unreasonable workload.

(3) An on-base financial institution may include an insert in the installation's newcomers package (or equivalent). This insert should benefit newcomers by identifying the financial services that are available on the installation.

(4) DoD Directive 5120.20prevents use of the Armed Forces Radio and Television Service to promote a specific financial institution.

(5) Off-base financial institutions are not permitted to distribute competitive literature or forms on the installation. These institutions, however, may use commercial advertising, mailings or telecommunications to reach their customers.
