
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### § 231.4 General provisions.
######## Automated teller machine (ATM) service.

(d)On-base financial institutions are encouraged to install ATMs at those installation(s) on which they are located.

(1) Financial institutions that propose to install ATMs on DoD installations shall bear the cost of ATM installation, maintenance and operation. The installation commander may enter into an agreement with the on-base financial institution wherein the installation may acquire and provide ATMs to on-base financial institutions under certain circumstances, such as when it is advantageous to the government to have one or more ATMs available for use but the acquisition cost to the financial institution is prohibitive. No ATM shall be purchased by an installation unless approved by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). In all such cases, installation costs and all logistic support shall be borne by the financial institution.

(2) ATM approval authority is as shown:

(i) The installation commander has approval authority when an on-base financial institution wishes to place an ATM on the installation. This approval should be reflected as an amendment to the operating agreement.

(ii) Where there is no on-base financial institution, follow the solicitation procedures to obtain financial services set forth in §§ 231.5(c) and 231.7(b).

(3) The availability of ATM service shall not preclude the later establishment of a banking office should conditions change on an installation.

(4) Proposals by an installation commander to install ATMs on domestic installations from other than on-base financial institutions, including the Military Exchange Services, morale, welfare and recreational activities and/or other nonappropriated fund instrumentalities, shall be considered only when:

(i) ATM service is unavailable or existing service is inadequate, and

(ii) The on-base financial institution(s) either declines to provide the service, fails to improve existing service so that it is adequate, or does not formally respond to the request for such service within 30 days of the date of the request. Any ATM service from other than on-base financial institutions is considered an exception to policy. The procedures to establish an on-base financial institution set forth in §§ 231.5(c) and 231.7(b) shall be followed when soliciting for such ATM services. Proposals offering shared-access ATMs (e.g., ATMs operated by two or more financial institutions where their accountholders are not assessed any or all fees applicable to nonaccountholders) shall receive preference.

(5) ATM service from foreign banking institutions may be authorized on overseas installations with or without MBFs operated under contract where the installation or community commander determines that a bonafide need exists to support local national hires. On installations with MBFs operated under contract, the MBFs shall be the primary source of the ATM service except when a determination has been made by the cognizant contract program office that providing the service is either not cost effective or precluded by pertinent status of forces agreements, other intergovernmental agreements or host-country law. In those instances where ATM service from foreign banking institutions is authorized and provided by other than the on-base financial institution, ATM connectivity shall be limited to host country networks and the ATMs shall dispense only local currency (no U.S. dollars). The operating agreement covering ATM service shall be negotiated by the installation or community commander and submitted for approval by the appropriate Combatant Commander (or designee) prior to its execution. A copy of the operating agreement will be forwarded through DoD Component channels to the DFAS.
