
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.4 General provisions.
######## Staffing.

(f)(1) On-base financial institutions shall be staffed adequately (i.e., commensurate with industry standards for similar numbers of accountholders and financial services rendered). Staffing at overseas MBFs operated under DoD contract shall be maintained within negotiated ceilings.

(2) All staffing shall comply fully with applicable equal employment opportunity laws and with the spirit of DoD equal employment opportunity policies as set forth in DoD Directive 1440.1.

(3) DoD personnel, excluding military retirees and their dependents, may not serve as directors of domestic or foreign banking institutions operating banking offices on those DoD installations where they currently are assigned. This does not preclude a member of a Reserve Component, who has been serving as a director of a domestic or foreign banking institution operating a banking office on a DoD installation, from retaining his or her directorship if called to active duty.

(4) DoD personnel may not be detailed to duty with an on-base financial institution located on a DoD installation. Off-duty personnel, however, may be employed by an on-base financial institution subject to approval by the installation commander (or designee). Such employment must not interfere with the performance of the individual's official duties and responsibilities.
