
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Notice.

(2)The DoD Component concerned shall notify the recipient of the opportunity for a hearing by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, when the recipient denies a tentative finding of noncompliance with this part.

(i) The DoD Component shall ensure that the notice:

(A) Describes the proposed sanctions to be imposed.

(B) Cites the section of this part under which the proposed action is to be taken.

(C) States the name and office of the DoD Component official who is responsible for conducting the hearing (hereafter referred to as the "responsible DoD official").

(D) Outlines the issues to be decided at the hearing.

(E) Advises the recipient either of a date, not less than 20 calendar days after the date that the notice is received, by which the recipient may request that the matter be scheduled for a hearing, or of a reasonable time and place of a hearing that is subject to change for good cause shown.

(ii) When a time and place for a hearing are set, the DoD Component shall give the recipient and the complainant, if any, reasonable notice of such time and place.
