
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.4 General provisions.
######## Financial education.

(h)(1) Officials of on-base financial institutions shall be invited to take part in seminars to educate personnel on personal financial management and financial services. Financial institutions shall be encouraged to provide financial education and counseling services as an integral part of their financial service offerings. Officials of on-base financial institutions shall submit advance briefing texts for approval by the installation commander to ensure that the program is not used to promote services of a specific financial institution.

(2) DoD personnel who tender uncollectible checks, overdraw their accounts or fail to meet their financial obligations in a proper and timely manner damage their credit reputation and adversely affect the public image of all government personnel. For uniformed personnel, military financial counselors and legal advisors shall recommend workable repayment plans that avoid further endangering credit ratings and counsel affected personnel to protect their credit standing and career. Counselors shall ensure that such personnel are aware of the stigma associated with bankruptcy and difficulties in obtaining future credit at reasonable rates and terms and shall recommend its use only when no other alternative will alleviate the situation.
