
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### § 231.4 General provisions.
######## Operating agreements.

(i)(1) Before operations of an on-base banking office or credit union begin, a written operating agreement (Appendix C of this part) and the appropriate real estate outgrant (i.e., a lease, permit or license issued as identified in §§ 231.5(e), 231.5(f), 231.5(g), 231.7(d), 231.7(e) and 231.7(f) shall be negotiated directly between the installation commander and officials of the designated financial institution. Thereafter, the operating agreement shall be jointly reviewed by the installation commander and the financial institution at least once every 5 years. The operating agreement shall define the basic relationship between the on-base financial institution and the installation commander and identify mutual support activities such as hours of operation, service fees and security provided. One copy of the agreement shall be sent through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). A copy of the agreement shall be maintained by the installation commander and the banking office or on-base credit union. At a minimum, the agreement shall include the following provisions:

(i) Identification of services to be rendered and the conditions for service. Full financial services shall be provided where feasible. Agreements, however, may not restrict either entity's right to renegotiate services and fees.

(ii) Agreement by both parties that they will comply with this part and DoD Directive 1000.11 (32 CFR part 230).

(iii) Agreement by the on-base financial institution that it will furnish copies of its financial reports and other local publications on an "as needed" basis in response to a formal request from the installation commander (or designee).

(iv) Agreement that the on-base financial institution will indemnify and hold harmless the U.S. Government from (and against) any loss, expense, claim, or demand to which the U.S. Government may be subjected as a result of death, loss, destruction, or damage in conjunction with the use and occupancy of the premises caused in whole or in part by agents or employees of the on-base financial institution.

(v) Agreement that neither the Department of Defense nor its representatives shall be responsible or liable for the financial operation of the on-base financial institution or for any loss (including criminal losses), expense, or claim for damages arising from operations.

(vi) Agreement by the on-base financial institution (or any successor) that it will provide no less than 180 days advance written notice to the installation commander before ceasing operations.

(vii) Specification of the security services to be provided for guarding cash shipments, at times of unusual risk to the financial institution and to avoid excessive insurance costs charged to that institution.

(viii) Statement that the physical security for cash and negotiable items will be in a manner consistent with the requirements of the on-base financial institution's insurer. A copy of those requirements will be provided to the installation commander on request.

(ix) Statement that the financial institution, whenever possible, will accommodate local command requests for lectures and printed materials for consumer credit education programs. Officials invited to participate in such programs shall not use the occasion to promote the exclusive services of a particular financial institution.

(x) Agreement that the financial institution will reimburse the installation for the provision of logistical support (such as custodial, janitorial, and other services provided by the government) at rates set forth in the lease or agreement between the installation and the financial institution.

(xi) Statement that on-base financial institution operations shall be terminated, when required, under provisions specified in this part.

(2) Approved expansion of services will be documented as an amendment to the existing operating agreement between the installation commander and the on-base financial institution. The amendment to the operating agreement and any required lease (to include a change to an existing lease) shall be in place prior to the initiation of new financial services or offices.
