
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.4 General provisions.
######## Installation financial services.

(j)(1) Retail banking operations shall not be performed by any DoD Component or nonappropriated fund instrumentality including the Military Exchange Services and morale, welfare and recreation (MWR) activities or any other organizational entity within the Department of Defense.

(2) Financial services provided on DoD installations will be as uniform as possible for all personnel. As separately negotiated, or based on a fee schedule, custodians of nonappropriated funds shall compensate on-base financial institutions for services received. Compensation may be made with compensating balances or paying fees based on the services provided or a combination of these payment mechanisms. Fees shall not exceed the charge customary for the financial institution less an offsetting credit on balances maintained. Banking offices shall classify nonappropriated fund accounts as commercial accounts.

(3) At a minimum, banking offices shall provide the same services to individuals and nonappropriated fund instrumentalities as are available in the surrounding geographic area.

(4) On-base financial institutions may conduct operations during normal duty hours provided they do not disrupt the performance of official duties. Operating hours shall be set, in consultation with the bank or credit union liaison officer, to meet the needs of all concerned. ATMs may be used to expand financial services and operating hours.

(5) DoD personnel may use their allotment of pay privileges to establish sound credit and savings practices through on-base financial institutions.

(i) The on-base financial institution shall credit customer accounts not later than the deposit date of the allotment check or electronic funds transfer.

(ii) The initiation of an allotment is voluntary (See Volume 7a, Chapter 42, Section 4202 of The DoD Financial Management Regulation (7200.14-R)). Thus, DoD personnel generally cannot be required to initiate an allotment for the repayment of a loan. Allotments voluntarily established by DoD personnel for the purpose of repaying a loan or otherwise providing funds to an on-base financial institution shall continue in effect at the option of the allotter.

(6) In accordance with sound lending practice, policies on loans to individuals are expected to be as liberal as feasible while remaining consistent with the overall interests of the on-base financial institution. On-base financial institutions shall conform to the Standards of Fairness principles before executing loan or credit agreements. See DoD Directive 1344.9.

(7) On-base financial institutions shall make basic financial education and counseling services available without charge to individuals seeking these services. Financial education and counseling services refer to basic personal and family finances such as budgeting, checkbook balancing and account reconciliation, benefits of savings, prudent use of credit, how to start a savings program, how to shop and apply for credit, and the consequences of excessive credit. DoD personnel in junior enlisted or civilian grades, or newly married couples who apply for loans, shall be given special attention and counseling.

(8) On-base financial institutions must strive to provide the best service to all customers. On-base financial institutions that evidence a policy of discrimination in their services are in violation of this part. In resolving complaints of discrimination, use the procedures specified in ยง 231.5(h)(8).

(9) All correspondence regarding on-base financial institutions, and questions concerning their operation that cannot be resolved locally, shall be referred through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for consideration.
