
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Establishment.

(b)(1) The following information shall be included in the installation commander's request to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for establishment of banking offices:

(i) The approximate number of DoD personnel at the installation, and other persons who may be authorized to use the banking office.

(ii) The distance between the installation and the financial institutions in the vicinity, and the names of those institutions.

(iii) Available transportation between the installation and the financial institutions listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The number of DoD personnel in duty assignments that confine them to the installation or who cannot obtain transportation (such as hospital patients).

(v) The name and location of the depositary used to make official deposits for credit to the TGA.

(vi) A list of organizational and nonappropriated fund accounts, the name and location of the financial institutions where deposited, and the average daily activity and balance of each account.

(vii) A written description and photographs of the space proposed for banking office use.

(viii) A statement listing the requirements of the proposed banking office for safes and a vault, alarm systems, and surveillance equipment, when necessary.

(ix) Reasons for use of space controlled by the General Services Administration (GSA). All the GSA assigned space, whether leased space or federal office building space, is reimbursable to the GSA at the standard level user charge. As such, space occupied by a banking office to serve military needs will be assigned and charged by the GSA.

(x) Any other information pertinent to the establishment of a banking office.

(2) The Secretary of the Military Departments (or designee) shall:

(i) Review each request for the establishment of banking offices.

(ii) Conduct a solicitation for the services when warranted.

(iii) Approve proposals for banking offices.

(iv) Notify the selected financial institution either directly or through the installation commander. The selected banking institution will, in turn, obtain operating authority from their regulating agencies.

(v) Forward proposals to establish TGAs to the DFAS for subsequent forwarding to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with Volume 5, Chapter 5, paragraph 050102 of The DoD Financial Management Regulation (7000.14-R).
