
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Solicitations.,Commerce Business Daily

(c)The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee), or the installation commander with advice from the cognizant Secretary of the Military Department (or designee), shall conduct solicitations to include pre-proposal conferences for on-base banking. Subject to the criteria for selection outlined in paragraph (c)(4) of this section the preferred sources of on-base financial services at domestic installations are federally-insured, state-chartered or federally-insured, federally-chartered banking institutions operating in the local area. The guidance at paragraph (c)(1) of this section addresses distribution of the solicitation only and does not preclude any federally-insured, state-chartered or federally-insured, federally-chartered banking institution from responding at any stage (from local distribution in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section to publication in theand financial institution trade journals as outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section of the solicitation process. No commitment may be made to any banking institution regarding its proposal until a designation is made by the appropriate regulatory agency.

(1) Solicitations for banking services shall be accomplished in the following order:

(i) Solicitation letters will be sent to local banking institutions and a solicitation announcement will be published in the local newspaper(s) and forwarded to financial institution associations.

(ii) If the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) or, where delegated, the installation commander, determines that the geographic scope of the solicitation needs to be expanded, a prospectus will be forwarded to financial institutions in a larger geographic area, as well as financial institution associations and regulatory authorities in the state where the installation is located.

(iii) If the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) or, where delegated, the installation commander, determines that the geographic scope of the solicitation needs to be expanded further, the prospectus will be published in the Commerce Business Daily and financial institution trade journals.

(2) For solicitations conducted at the installation level, the installation commander shall review proposals to establish banking offices, select the banking institution making the best offer and forward a recommendation to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for final approval.

(3) Banking institutions shall not be coerced when banking arrangements are under consideration or after banking offices are established. If otherwise proper, this prohibition does not preclude:

(i) Discussions with banking institutions prior to submitting a proposal for a new banking office.

(ii) Helping banking offices extend their operations in support of an installation requirement.

(iii) Discussions with banking institutions to improve services or to create savings for the banking institution or DoD personnel.

(iv) Seeking proposals for banking service as directed by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee).

(v) Negotiations preparatory to signing a banking agreement.

(4) When soliciting for banking services, proposals shall be evaluated on specific factors identified in the solicitation. These factors, at a minimum, shall be predicated on the services to be provided as outlined in appendix A, paragraph 3, of this part, the financial institution's schedule of service fees and charges, and the extent of logistical support required. Prior to issuance of the solicitation, the preparing office shall identify (for internal use during the subsequent evaluation period) the weights to be applied to the factors reflected in the solicitation. Proposals shall be evaluated and ultimate selection made based upon the factors and weights developed for the solicitation.

(5) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee), or the installation commander with advice from the cognizant Secretary of the Military Department (or designee), shall make the selection of the banking institution based on the provisions outlined in this section.
