
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Terminations.

(d)(1) Requests for termination of financial services shall be approved by the installation commander, substantiated by sufficient evidence and forwarded to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The termination of banking office operations shall be initiated by the installation commander only under one of the following conditions:

(i) The mission of the installation has changed, or is scheduled to be changed, thereby eliminating or substantially reducing the requirement for financial services.

(ii) Active military operations prevent continuation of on-base financial services.

(iii) Performance of the banking office in providing services is not satisfactory according to standards ordinarily associated with the financial services industry or is inconsistent with the operating agreements or the procedures prescribed herein.

(iv) When merger, acquisition, change of control or other action results in violation of the terms and conditions of the existing operating agreement, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall terminate the operating agreement with the existing banking institution. When the merger, acquisition, change of control or other action does not result in violation of the terms and conditions of the existing operating agreement, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall initiate a novation action of the operating agreement identifying the change in control.

(2) The installation commander shall forward requests for termination to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall coordinate all termination actions with the USD(C), through the Director, DFAS, before notification to the appropriate regulatory agency. Subsequent to this coordination process:

(i) The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall inform the regulatory agency of the action.

(ii) The installation commander shall revoke the authority of the financial institution to operate. The lease will be terminated.

(3) Any banking office that intends to terminate its operations should notify the installation commander at least 180 days before the closing date. This notification should precede any public announcement of the planned closure. When appropriate, the commander shall attempt to negotiate an agreement permitting the banking office to continue operations until the installation has made other arrangements. Immediately upon notification of a closing, the commander shall advise the DoD Component headquarters concerned. If it is determined that continuation of banking services is justified, action to establish another banking office shall be taken in accordance with the guidance prescribed herein.
