
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Use of space, logistical support, and military real property for domestic banks,Lease Terms.

(e)-(1)(i) The consideration for a lease shall be determined by appraisal of fair market rental value in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2667. Periodic reappraisals shall be based upon the fair market rental value exclusive of the improvements made by the banks.

(ii) The term of the lease shall not exceed 5 years except where the banking institution uses its own funds to improve existing government space as outlined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section. If space occupied is assigned by the GSA, charges to financial institutions for space and services shall be at the GSA standard level user rate.

(iii) Leases shall include the following provisions:

(A) The government has the right to terminate the lease due to national emergency; installation inactivation, closing, or other disposal action; or default by the lessee.

(B) The lessee shall provide written notice 180 days prior to voluntarily terminating the lease.

(C) Upon a lease termination, the government has the option to cause the title of all structures and other improvements to be conveyed to the United States without reimbursement, or require the lessee to remove the improvements and restore the land to its original condition.
