
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Logistical support.

(2)(i) The banking office shall be housed in a building accessible to DoD personnel on the installation and in a location permitting reasonable security.

(ii) Banking institutions shall perform all maintenance, repair, improvements, alterations, and construction on the banking premises.

(iii) Banking institutions shall pay for all utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating and air conditioning, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal) at rates set forth in the lease, operating agreement or other written agreement between the installation and the banking institution.

(3) Leases executed before the issuance of this part may not be altered solely as a result of the provisions of this part unless a lessee specifically requests a renegotiation under these provisions. No lease may be negotiated or renegotiated, nor may any rights be waived or surrendered without compensation to the government.

(4) When a banking institution participates in the construction of a shopping mall complex the lease shall cover only land where the banking office physically is located.

(5) When a banking institution uses its own funds to improve existing government space, leases, for a period not to exceed 25 years subject to periodic review every 5 years to assess changes in fair market value, may be negotiated for a period commensurate with the appraised value of the leasehold improvements divided by the annual lease fee.
