
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Land leases.

(f)(1) A lease for construction of a building to house a banking office shall be at the appraised fair market rental value. Charges shall apply for the term of the lease not to exceed 25 years, subject to periodic review every 5 years to assess changes in fair market value.

(2) If determined to be in the government's interest, an existing lease of land may be extended prior to expiration of its term. Passage of title to facilities shall be deferred until all extensions have expired. Such extensions shall be for periods not to exceed 5 years with lease payments set at the appraised fair market rental of the land only as determined on the date of each such extension. Banking institution lessees shall continue to maintain the premises and pay for utilities and services furnished.

(3) When, under the terms of a lease, title to improvements passes to the government, arrangements normally will be made as follows:

(i) When the square footage involved exceeds that authorized in DoD 4270.1-M, the banking institution shall be given first choice to continue occupying the excess space under a lease that provides for fair market rental for the land underlying that excess space.

(ii) The charge for continued occupancy of improved space by a banking office shall be at fair market rental value only for the associated land. The lessee shall continue to maintain the premises and pay the cost of utilities and services furnished.
