
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Construction projects approval authority.

(3)(i) Projects costing $25,000 or more shall be approved by the Major Command with an information copy sent to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall have 30 days to provide comments to the Major Command before final approval can be granted.

(ii) Projects costing less than $25,000, to include interior alterations and room or office additions to existing banking offices, shall be approved by installation commanders. Copies of approvals, including the identification of project cost, shall be furnished to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee).

(4) The Congress shall be notified of all construction projects, using other than appropriated funds and costing over $500,000, in accordance with DoD Instruction 7700.18.

(5) Proposals for construction of structures on installations at a banking institution's expense shall be reviewed and reported in accordance with regulations of the Military Department concerned. The following information shall be listed to support each proposal:

(i) Number of DoD personnel at the installation plus others who may use the banking office.

(ii) Square footage of the proposed building.

(iii) Land area to be leased to the banking institution.

(iv) Term of the lease.

(v) Estimated cost of construction.

(vi) Estimated fair market value of the land to be leased.

(vii) Statement that the banking institution will be responsible for utility connections and other utility and maintenance costs.

(viii) Statement that the building will be used only for financial services.

(ix) A statement that financial institution officials understand the potential loss of the building in the event of installation closure or other delimiting condition.

(x) Justification for a waiver of space criteria if the building exceeds that specified in DoD 4270.1-M.

(6) Banks shall pay for interior alterations and maintenance as well as utilities, custodial, and other furnished services.

(7) Banks shall pay all construction costs.
