
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## Bank liaison officer (BLO).

(h)Each installation commander having an on-base banking office shall appoint a BLO. The BLO's name and duty telephone number shall be displayed prominently at each banking office on the installation. As appropriate, the BLO's responsibility shall be assigned to comptroller or resource management personnel. Employees, officials or directors of a financial institution may not serve as BLOs. The BLO shall:

(1) Ensure that the banking institution operating the banking office has the latest version of this part.

(2) Ensure that traveler's checks and money orders are not being sold by other on-base organizations when banking offices are open for business. Postal units and credit unions, however, are exempt from this restriction. Also, ensure that other financial services, to include vehicle financing on domestic installations, are offered only by the banking office.

(3) Attend financial workshops, conferences, and seminars as appropriate. These gatherings offer excellent opportunities for personnel of financial institutions and the Department to improve the military banking program. Free discussion among the attendees gives an excellent forum for planning, developing, and reviewing programs that improve financial services made available to DoD personnel and organizations.

(4) Assist, when requested by the banking office manager or the installation commander, in locating and collecting from individuals tendering uncollectible checks, overdrawing accounts, or defaulting on loans (within the guidelines of subpart C) if not otherwise prohibited by law.

(5) Maintain regular contact with the banking office manager to confer and discuss quantitative and qualitative improvements in the services provided. In executing this authority, the BLO shall not become involved in the internal operations of the financial institution.

(6) Review the schedule of service charges and fees annually, and ensure that the operating agreement is updated at least every 5 years. Renegotiate the financial services offered and related service charges and fees as necessary.

(7) Assist in resolving customer complaints about banking services.

(8) Assist in resolving complaints of discrimination with financial services by the banking institution. If a complaint cannot be resolved, a written request for investigation shall be forwarded to the appropriate regulatory agency. Any such request must document the problem and command efforts taken toward its resolution. Information copies of all related correspondence shall be sent through channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for transmittal to the DFAS.

(9) Assist the installation commander to report to the appropriate regulatory agency any evidence suggesting malpractice by banking office personnel.
