
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## In-store banking.

(i)Under the direction and approval of the installation commander, an on-base financial institution may provide in-store banking within the premises of a commissary operated by the Defense Commissary Agency, a Military Exchange, or any other on-base retail facility.

(1) Provision of the requested services, and any associated stipulations, shall be documented as an amendment to the existing operating agreement between the installation commander and the on-base financial institution that will provide in-store services.

(2) The amendment to the operating agreement shall be drafted through close coordination between the requesting DoD Component representative, the on-base financial institution representative, the bank liaison officer, and the installation commander (or designee). The final amendment shall be signed by the installation commander and the on-base financial institution with the acknowledgement of the DoD Component that will host the in-store banking operation.

(3) The installation commander shall extend the opportunity to provide the requested in-store banking services to all financial institutions located on the installation. The selection process is outlined in Appendix B of this part.

(4) Space shall be granted by the installation commander through a lease to the banking institution that will provide in-store service.
