
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.5 Procedures - domestic banks.
######## MBF conversion.

(2)(i) Where MBFs exist, installation commanders shall encourage their conversion to independent or branch banks.

(ii) Proposals from the on-base banking institution to convert an existing MBF to an independent or branch bank shall be sent through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for approval. The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall forward the request to the Director, DFAS, for coordination with the Department of the Treasury.

(iii) Unsolicited proposals from banking institutions to establish independent or branch banks where an MBF exists shall be forwarded through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). Each proposal shall be evaluated on its own merits.

(A) The installation commander shall inform the banking institution operating the MBF that an unsolicited proposal for a banking office has been received and shall offer that incumbent institution the opportunity to submit its own proposal.

(B) Preference to operate an independent or branch bank shall be given to the banking institution that has operated the MBF, provided that the banking service previously rendered has been satisfactory and that the institution's proposal is adequate.
