
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.6 Procedures - overseas banks.
######## Establishment,Overseas MBFs operated under contract.

(b)-(1)Installation or community commanders requiring banking services will send a request through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for concurrence and subsequent transmittal to the Director, DFAS, for approval.

(i) Requests to establish MBFs shall include, but are not limited to, the following information:

(A) The approximate number of DoD personnel at the installation and in the community and any other persons who may be authorized to use the MBF.

(B) The distance between the installation and the nearest MBF and credit union office, the names; addresses, and telephone numbers of the operators of those institutions; and the installations and communities where they are located.

(C) The availability of official and public transportation between the installation or community and the nearest MBF and credit union office.

(D) The name and location of the depository used to make official deposits for credit to the TGA.

(E) A list of organizational and nonappropriated fund accounts, the name and location of the financial institutions where deposited, and the average daily activity and balance of each account.

(F) A written description and photographs or drawings of the space proposed for MBF use. The extent and approximate cost of required alterations, including the construction of counters and teller cages.

(G) A statement that recognizes the logistical support, including equipment, to be provided by the local command as detailed in paragraph (c) of this section. The statement will include the costs of such equipment and the manner in which it will be acquired.

(H) In countries where no MBFs currently are operated under contract, a statement from the cognizant Combatant Command that the requirement has been coordinated with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy and that the host country will permit the operation in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.

(I) Any other pertinent information to justify the establishment of an MBF.

(ii) As a general rule, MBFs may be established only when the installation or community population meets the following criteria:
