
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.6 Procedures - overseas banks.
######## Part-time MBF.

(B)Except in unusual circumstances, a total of at least 250 permanent military personnel and DoD civilian employees are necessary to qualify for a part time MBF.

(iii) If the population at a certain remote area is not sufficient to qualify under the criteria for full-time or part-time MBFs, the installation or community commander will explore all other alternatives for acquiring limited banking services before requesting establishment of an MBF as an exception to these provisions. Alternatives to limited banking services include installation of ATMs and check cashing and accommodation exchange service by disbursing officers and their agents.

(iv) Establishment of an overseas MBF is predicated on and requires:

(A) Designation of the MBF contractor as a depositary and financial agent of the U.S. Government by the Department of the Treasury.

(B) The availability of banking contractors interested in bidding for the operation of the facility and the viability of such proposals.

(C) The availability of appropriated funds to underwrite such banking services.

(D) Establishment of a U.S. dollar currency custody account to support banking operations.
