
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.6 Procedures - overseas banks.
######## Other overseas banking offices.

(2)Where a need for financial services has been identified and either the banking and currency control laws of certain host countries do not permit MBFs to operate on DoD installations or MBFs, where permitted, have not been established, then the following applies:

(i) Installation or community commanders shall send requests for banking services or unsolicited proposals from foreign banking institutions to their Major Commands with supporting data as required in ยง 231.5(b)(1).

(ii) Major Commands shall forward installation or community commander requests to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for approval. The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall coordinate with the DFAS to seek the designation of the parent foreign banking institution as a depositary and financial agent of the U.S. Government by the Department of the Treasury.

(iii) Banking offices in this category cannot become operational until the foreign parent banking institution has been designated a depositary and financial agent of the U.S. Government. The institution also shall indicate a willingness and ability to provide collateral backing for any official and nonappropriated fund U.S. dollar deposits. Any collateral pledged shall be in a form acceptable to the DFAS and the Department of the Treasury.
