
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.6 Procedures - overseas banks.
######## 2

() All maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, alterations, or construction for banking offices shall comply with guidelines established by the installation commander.

(B) Office space in a building that is accessible to most users and permits the maximum security. In addition, office space for MBF area and district administrations and storage space for retention of records, files, and storage of supplies.

(C) DoD housing on a rental basis to assigned MBF staff that are designated as key and essential MBF managerial personnel who are unable to find suitable, reasonably priced housing in the vicinity of the DoD installation, subject to the assignment procedures and other requirements of DoD 4165.63-M.

(D) Education, on a space-available, tuition-paying basis, provided by the Department of Defense Education Activity to minor dependents of assigned staff in accordance with DoD Directive 1342.13.

(E) Air conditioning, which is considered a normal utility for banking offices located at installations that qualify for air conditioning under applicable regulations. Banking space is classified as administrative space at military installations.

(F) Utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal).

(G) Defense Switched Network (DSN) voice and data communication to include, where feasible, Internet access.

(H) Military guards, civilian guards (for use within the installation), military police, or other protective services to accompany shipments of money. This level of protective service also shall be provided at other times as required to include replenishment of ATM currency and receipts, alarm system failures, and to avoid undue risks or insurance costs on the part of the MBF.

(I) U.S. Military Postal Service access in accordance with DoD Directive 4525.6.Use of free intra-theater delivery system (IDS) is authorized for all routine mail sent and received between Army Post Offices (APOs) and Fleet Post Offices (FPOs) within a theater.

(J) Office equipment and furniture on memorandum receipt if available from local stock. If office equipment or furniture is unavailable, statements of nonavailability shall be issued.

(K) Vehicle registration and fuel sales from government-owned facilities for bank-operated vehicles, if not in conflict with host government agreements. Vehicle registration shall be subject to normal fees.

(L) Issuance by local commanders of invitational travel orders, at no expense to the U.S. Government when required for official onsite visits by U.S. based banking institution officials.

(ii) Suggestions for changes to the logistical support provisions of the MBF contract may be forwarded for consideration through command channels to the Director, DFAS.
