
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.6 Procedures - overseas banks.
######## Operations,General conditions of MBF operation.

(d)-(1)(i) Before initiating MBF operations, a written agreement shall be negotiated directly and signed by the installation or community commander and a senior official of the banking contractor or other financial institution concerned. One copy of the agreement with U.S. banking contractors and two copies of the agreement with institutions other than U.S. banking contractors shall be forwarded through command channels to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee). The Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall forward one copy of the agreement with institutions other than U.S. banking contractors through command channels to the Director, DFAS. A copy of the agreement also shall be maintained at all times by the installation or community commander and the banking institution manager.

(ii) For MBFs operated by U.S. banking contractors, the agreement shall state operating details not set forth in the contract. Though the contract limits the number of operating hours per week, local commanders and MBF managers should set days and hours of operation to best meet local needs. Operating times may include Saturdays and evening hours when necessary to complement other retail services for DoD personnel, provided the contractor can implement that service at no additional cost to the government. When added cost is involved, the commander shall send a request including reasons for expanded or modified times of operation, through command channels, to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) for action. If approved, the request, with recommendations, shall be forwarded to the Director, DFAS (or designee).
