
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.7 Procedures - domestic credit unions.
######## Establishment.

(b)A demonstrated need for credit union services may be addressed by establishing a new full-service credit union or by opening a branch office or facility of an existing credit union under the common bond principle.

(1) DoD personnel seeking to establish a new full-service credit union shall submit a proposal to the installation commander for review. In addition to the information identified in ยง 231.5(b)(1), the proposal shall include a request for the establishment of a field of membership that includes all personnel at the installation. Upon installation commander concurrence, the proposal shall be forwarded through DoD Component channels to the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee).

(2) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall:

(i) Obtain a list of credit unions that could establish eligibility to serve the installation's military members and civilian employees from the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) Regional Office that has geographic jurisdiction and the applicable state regulatory agency.

(ii) Prepare and send formal solicitation letters to eligible credit unions informing them of an opportunity to establish a branch office at the installation.

(iii) In coordination with the installation commander, establish the criteria for selection of a specific credit union in accordance with ยง 231.5(c)(4). Proposals shall be evaluated, and a selection made, based upon the factors and weights developed for the solicitation.

(3) Upon approval by the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee), the NCUA or applicable state regulatory agency shall be notified and asked to establish or amend the selected credit union's charter to include the new location.

(4) No commitment may be made to a credit union regarding its proposal until the appropriate regulatory agency has approved the requested charter change.
