
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.7 Procedures - domestic credit unions.
######## Use of space, logistical support, and military real property for domestic credit unions,Criteria for use of space in Government-owned real property.

(d)-(1)(i) Criteria governing the assignment of space and construction of new space for credit unions are in DoD 4270.1-M.

(ii) A credit union may be furnished space on a DoD installation at one or more locations for periods not exceeding 5 years except where the credit union uses its own funds to improve existing government space as outlined in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(C) and (d)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. The cumulative total of space furnished shall be subject to the limitations of DoD 4270.1-M.

(A) The furnishing of office space (including ATM placement) to on-base credit unions is governed by section 170 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1770). The provision of no-cost office space for a period not to exceed 5 years is limited to credit unions if at least 95 percent of the membership to be served by the allotment of space is composed of individuals who are, or who were at the time of admission into the credit union, military personnel or federal employees, or members of their families. A written statement to the effect that the credit union meets the 95 percent criterion shall be required to justify and document the allotment of free government space. This statement shall be prepared on the credit union's letterhead and signed either by the chairman of the board of directors or the president. A certification also shall be required whenever there is a merger, takeover, or significant change in a field of membership. This certification shall serve as justification and documentation for the continued allocation of free government space including space renovated with credit union funds. The statement shall be updated every 5 years and on renewal of each no-cost permit or license. (See appendix C of this part for a sample format of the statement.)

(B) Credit unions that fail to meet the 95 percent criterion shall be charged fair market rental for space provided. Except where more than one credit union exists on an installation prior to June 9, 2000, credit unions giving less than full service or not serving all assigned DoD personnel are not authorized no-cost office space.

(C) When a credit union that meets the 95 percent criterion uses its own funds to expand, modify, or renovate government-owned space, it may be provided a no-cost permit or license for a period commensurate with the extent of the improvements not to exceed 25 years as determined by the DoD Component concerned. The permit or license shall be effective until the agreed date of expiration or until the credit union ceases to satisfy the 95 percent criterion. In this latter case, the no-cost permit shall be cancelled in favor of a lease immediately negotiated at fair market value under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section. If the credit union desires, this permit or license may extend through the period identified in the original permit or license not to exceed 25 years.

(D) Similarly, a credit union not meeting the 95 percent criterion that uses its own funds to expand, modify, or renovate government-owned space, may be provided a lease at fair market value for a period not to exceed 25 years subject to periodic review every 5 years to assess changes in fair market value. Duration of this lease shall be commensurate with the extent of the improvements as determined by the DoD Component concerned.

(iii) All space assigned by the GSA, whether leased or in a federal office building, is reimbursable to the GSA at the standard level user charge. Consequently, the GSA shall charge the benefiting DoD Component for any space assigned for credit union operations. Such space is subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
