
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.7 Procedures - domestic credit unions.
######## Logistical support.

(2)When available, custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal), heating and air conditioning, utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water, and sewage), fixtures, and maintenance shall be furnished without cost to credit unions occupying no-cost office space in government buildings. With the exception of intrastation telephone service, credit unions shall be required to pay for all communication services to include telephone lines, long distance data services and Internet connections. Credit unions also shall pay for space alterations. Should a credit union fail to meet the 95 percent membership criterion, any logistical support furnished shall be on a reimbursable basis.

(3) Leases executed before the issuance of this part may not be altered solely as a result of the provisions of this part unless a lessee specifically requests a renegotiation under these provisions. No lease may be negotiated or renegotiated, nor may any rights be waived or surrendered without compensation to the government.

(4) When a credit union participates in the construction of a shopping mall complex the lease shall cover only land where the branch or facility physically is located.
