
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.8 Procedures - overseas credit unions.
######## Establishment.

(b)(1) Commanders shall notify the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee), through command channels, when overseas credit union services are needed. Such requests shall include:

(i) Full information about available space and logistical support.

(ii) The name and location of the nearest credit union facility or branch.

(iii) The distance between the installation and the nearest credit union facility or branch.

(iv) The availability of any official or public transportation.

(v) The number of DoD personnel in duty assignments that confine them to the installation or who cannot obtain transportation (such as hospital patients).

(vi) In countries not presently served, a statement concurred in by the cognizant Combatant Command that the requirement has been coordinated with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy. The statement shall include that the host country will permit credit union operations and will indicate any conditions imposed by the host country with respect to those operations.

(2) Subsequent to approval of the request from the installation or community commander to establish an overseas credit union facility, the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall solicit proposals for the provision of full credit union services under the following provisions.

(i) Where there is a DoD designated geographic franchise with a specific field of membership, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall direct the installation or community commander to contact the supporting credit union and request that a branch or facility be established. The basic decision concerning such extensions of service rests with the servicing credit union. The Director, DFAS (or designee) shall maintain a listing of all geographic franchises assigned to credit unions serving DoD overseas installations.

(ii) Where there is no DoD designated geographic franchise, the Secretary of the Military Department (or designee) shall:

(A) Coordinate requests, through the Director, DFAS (or designee), to obtain a geographic franchise. A geographic franchise is the authorization granted to a credit union by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (OUSD(C)) to provide financial services in a specific geographic region located outside the United States, its territories and possessions.

(B) Solicit proposals from credit unions currently operating on DoD installations.

(C) Review proposals of interested credit unions.

(D) Coordinate with field commands, as needed.

(E) Recommend selection to the NCUA or applicable state regulatory agency with a copy to the DFAS and the OUSD(C), requesting that the appropriate field of membership adjustment be made. Such a recommendation shall identify the primary installations on which the credit union would operate and, if applicable, the contiguous geographic boundaries for future facilities and branches.

(3) Where there is an existing field of membership, the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) shall take the following actions:

(i) If a credit union on an installation terminates operation, afford any other credit union having a geographic franchise within that country an opportunity to assume the franchise being vacated. If all such institutions decline, the geographic franchise shall be offered to the federally insured credit union community. If, as a result of a credit union decision to decline service to an installation or a termination action, another credit union:

(A) Offers to provide service.

(B) Meets host country requirements (if any) and

(C) Is assigned the former geographic franchise or portion thereof, the NCUA or the applicable state regulatory agency shall be notified and requested to make appropriate field of membership adjustments.

(ii) When other credit union(s) having a geographic franchise within a country decline the opportunity, or there is no other credit union having a franchise within that country, the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply.

(4) No commitment may be made to a credit union regarding its proposal until the appropriate regulatory agency has announced a selection.
