
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.8 Procedures - overseas credit unions.
######## Logistical support.

(c)Installation or community commanders shall provide logistical credit union support. Such support normally shall include:

(1) Adequate office space, including steel bars; grillwork; security doors; a vault, safes or both; security alarm systems and camera surveillance equipment (where deemed necessary) that meet documented requirements of the credit union's insurance carrier; construction of counters, teller cages, and customer and work areas; necessary modifications and alterations to existing buildings. The size and arrangement of space should permit efficient operations. The credit union shall pay for all improvements to the space given. Space assigned may not exceed that prescribed in DoD 4270.1-M.

(2) DoD housing on a rental basis to key credit union personnel unable to find suitable, reasonably priced housing in the vicinity of the DoD installation, if available.

(3) Education, on a space-available, tuition-paying basis, provided by the Department of Defense Education Activity to minor dependents of assigned staff in accordance with DoD Directive 1342.13.

(4) Utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services.

(5) DSN voice and data communication to include, where feasible, internet access.

(6) U.S. Military Postal Service support under DoD Directive 4525.6. The use of free intra-theater delivery system (IDS) is authorized for all routine mail sent and received between Army Post Offices (APOs) and Fleet Post Offices (FPOs) within a theater.

(7) Military guards, civilian guards (for use within the installation), military police, or other protective services to accompany shipments of money from the MBF to the credit union and return where it is impractical or not authorized to have a local armored car service or civilian police authorities entering a military installation to provide cash escort service or when the cost of obtaining such service is prohibitive. This level of protective service also shall be provided at other times as required to include replenishment of ATM currency and receipts, alarm system failures, and to avoid undue risks or insurance costs.
