
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Subpart A - Guidelines
####### ยง 231.8 Procedures - overseas credit unions.
######## Operations.

(e)(1) An overseas credit union shall confine its field of membership to individuals or organizations eligible by law or regulation to receive services and benefits from the installation. Services shall not be provided to those personnel precluded such services by the applicable status of forces agreement, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.

(2) The Department assigns overseas credit unions a prescribed geographic franchise. Any credit union, however, may continue to serve its members stationed overseas by mail or telecommunications, to include access to the Internet.

(3) A credit union proposing a new service to be offered by a branch office that is not authorized by the operating agreement shall coordinate the establishment of the new service through the cognizant Component command to the Combatant Command. The new service shall be offered only after the appropriate command's approval and coordination with the U.S. Chief of Diplomatic Mission or U.S. Embassy to ensure that the service does not conflict with the applicable status of forces agreement, other intergovernmental agreements, or host-country law.

(4) Credit unions that operate full service branches shall have U.S. currency and coin available for member transactions. In areas served by currency custody accounts, transactional U. S. currency and coins shall be made available from the servicing MBF with no direct or analysis charge to the credit union, provided settlement is made via the local MBF account or equivalent arrangements are made with the MBF.

(5) In countries served by MBFs operated under contract, credit unions shall purchase foreign currency only from the servicing MBF.

(i) The bulk rate purchase price shall apply to currency used by the credit union to make payments to vendors or to make payroll payments.

(ii) Credit unions that desire and are authorized to provide accommodation exchange services to its members shall acquire foreign currency from the servicing MBF at the MBF wholesale rate and sell it at a rate of exchange no more favorable than that available to customers of the MBF.

(6) Credit unions operating under a geographic franchise on an overseas DoD installation shall not publicize, display or sell vehicles on the installation.

(7) The NCUA or applicable state regulatory agency may review operations of overseas credit union offices either when it examines the main credit union or at other times of its choosing. For federally insured, state chartered credit unions, the applicable state regulatory agency also may examine credit unions operations.
