
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 231 - Sample Operating Agreement
####### Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and Private Organizations.

c.State the charges or refer to a schedule of charges for funds and organizations that do not participate in a central banking program. For those activities participating in a central banking program, determine the compensation to the financial institution by account analysis.

5. It is agreed that the financial institution shall:

a. Notify the commander or designated representative of any proposed changes to the attached schedule of fees and services at least 30 days prior to implementation.

b. Follow the requirements in Volume 5, Chapter 34, of DoD 7000.14-R, as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), and any changes thereto.

c. Comply with Department of the Treasury requirements for establishment and operation of a Treasury General Account where the financial institution agrees to act as a depository for government funds.

d. Absolve the (Military Service) and its representatives of responsibility or liability for the financial operation of the financial institution; and for any loss (including losses due to criminal activity), expenses, or claims for damages arising from financial institution operations.

e. Indemnify, and hold harmless the United States from (and against) any loss, expense, claim, or demand, including attorney fees, court costs, and costs of litigation, to which the government may be subjected as a result of death, loss, destruction, or damage in connection with the use and occupancy of (Military Service) premises occasioned in whole or in part by officers, agents or employees of the financial institution operating an office of the financial institution.

f. Favorably respond, whenever feasible, to reasonable local command requests for lectures and printed materials to support consumer credit education programs, financial management program and newcomer's briefings.

g. Prominently post in the lobby of the financial institution the name, duty telephone number of the (Bank or Credit Union) Liaison Officer.

h. Accept the government travel card in all on-base ATMs operated by the financial institution.

i. Abide by the installation fire protection program, including immediate correction of fire hazards noted by the installation fire inspector during periodic fire prevention inspections.

6. The commander shall provide the following space and support:

a. Space requirements for financial institution operations shall be administered in accordance with the existing outgrant (i.e., lease, permit or license). (Show Number of Outgrant).

b. Utilities (i.e., electricity, natural gas or fuel oil, water and sewage), heating and air conditioning, intrastation telephone service, and custodial and janitorial services to include garbage disposal and outdoor maintenance (such as grass cutting and snow removal) on a reimbursable basis.

c. DoD housing and minor dependent education in overseas locations for military banking facility (MBF) and credit union personnel in accordance with §§ 231.6(c)(1)(i)(C), 231.6(c)(1)(D), 231.8(c)(2) and 231.8(c)(3).

7. Termination of this Agreement shall be consistent with the termination provision of the real property lease and subpart A. The Secretary of the (Military Department) shall have the right to terminate this Agreement at any time. Any termination of the right of the financial institution to operate on the installation shall render this Agreement terminated without any applicable action by the commander.

8. Any provision of this Agreement that is contrary to or violates any laws, rules, or regulations of the United States, its agencies, or the state of (state in which the financial institution is located) that apply on federal installations shall be void and have no force or effect; however, both parties to this Agreement agree to notify the other party promptly of any known or suspected continuing violation of such laws, rules, or regulations.

9. So long as this Agreement remains in effect, it shall be reviewed jointly by the commander and the financial institution at least once every 5 years to ensure compatibility with current DoD issuances and to determine if any changes are required to the Agreement.
