
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 231 - PROCEDURES GOVERNING BANKS, CREDIT UNIONS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON DOD INSTALLATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 231 - In-Store Banking
####### Specific Procedures

B.

1. The need for in-store banking service may be identified from either:

a. An unsolicited proposal from an on-base financial institution,

b. A DoD Component's request, or

c. An installation commander's request.

2. The cognizant installation commander (or designee) is responsible for assessing the environment and authorizing the Bank/Credit Union Liaison Officer(s) to pursue the acquisition of in-store banking services. If no authorization is given, no further action is required.

3. The cognizant installation commander shall determine whether a solicitation is required. (A solicitation shall be required whenever there are two or more financial institutions on a DoD installation.) If no solicitation is required, then the Bank/Credit Union Liaison Officer shall work directly with the on-base financial institution to obtain the requested services. Where there is neither a banking office nor an on-base credit union, use the solicitation process outlined in ยง 231.5(c) of this chapter, as supplemented by the provisions outlined in paragraph A, above.

4. The solicitation letter shall identify the financial services being requested and classify these services as either mandatory or optional. In addition, the solicitation letter shall highlight any services that will be weighed as more important than others during the evaluation of the proposals. Any space consideration and terms of the proposed agreement also shall be identified in the letter.

5. The installation commander (or designee) formally shall notify the selected financial institution and request that institution to coordinate with the proper activity to begin any construction, modifications or renovations necessary to open the in-store banking office. The cognizant facility management personnel shall begin the process of obtaining the necessary outgrant instruments. Concurrently, the requesting DoD Component representative and the financial institution representative shall draft the appropriate amendment to the operating agreement. The amendment should contain provisions regarding:

a. The roles and responsibilities of all parties involved.

b. The financial services to be provided, and

c. The logistical support arrangements to include custodial services and security provisions. The amendment should be coordinated with the Bank/Credit Union Liaison Officer(s) prior to forwarding that document to the installation commander for signature. The amendment shall be signed by the installation commander (or designee) and the appropriate financial institution official with a copy furnished to the Secretary of the Military Department concerned (or designee) and the Director, DFAS (or designee).
