
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Interagency cooperation and delegation.

(u)(1) When several recipients are receiving assistance for the same or similar purposes from a DoD Component and another Federal agency, the DoD Component shall notify the ASD (MRA&L), or designee. Such notification shall be in writing and shall contain:

(i) A description of the programs and activities involved.

(ii) A statement of the amount of money expended on the programs and activities in the previous and current fiscal year by the DoD Component and the agency.

(iii) A list of the known primary recipients.

(2) The ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall attempt to negotiate with the Federal agency a written delegation agreement that designates the agency or the DoD Component as the primary agency for purposes of ensuring compliance with section 504 of Public Law 93-112, as amended, and this part depending upon which of them administers a larger financial assistance program with the common recipients and other relevant factors. If necessary, the agreement shall establish procedures to ensure the enforcement of section 504 of Public Law 93-112, as amended, and this part. The ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall provide written notification to recipients of an agreement reached under this subsection.

(3) When several recipients are receiving assistance for the same or similar purposes from two or more DoD Components, the DoD Components may negotiate a proposed written delegation agreement that:

(i) Assigns responsibility for ensuring that the recipient complies with this part to one of the DoD Components.

(ii) Provides for the notification to recipients and the responsible program officials of the DoD Components involved of the assignment of enforcement responsibility.

(4) No delegation agreement reached in accordance with paragraph (u)(3) to this section shall be effective until it is approved by the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.

(5) When possible, existing delegation agreements relating to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 shall be amended to provide for the enforcement of this part.

(6) Any DoD Component conducting a compliance review or investigating a complaint of an alleged violation by a recipient shall notify any other affected agency or DoD Component through the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, upon discovery that the agency or DoD Component has jurisdiction over the program or activity in question and shall subsequently inform it of the finding made. Such reviews or investigations may be conducted on a joint basis.

(7) When a compliance review or complaint investigation under this part reveals a possible violation of Executive Order 11246, titles VI or VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, or any other Federal law, the DoD Component shall notify the appropriate agency, through the ASD(MRA&L), or designee.
