
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 56 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ASSISTED OR CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
###### ยง 56.9 Ensuring compliance with this part in Federal financial assistance programs and activities.
####### Coordination with sections 502 and 503.

(v)(1) DoD Components shall use DoD 4270.1-M and Department of the Army, Office of the Chief of Engineers, Manual EM 1110-1-103, in developing requirements for the accessibility of facilities. If DoD Components encounter issues with respect to section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, that are not covered by these publications, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, may be consulted. If necessary, the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, shall consult with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board in resolving such problems.

(2) DoD Components may advise recipients to consult directly with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board in developing accessibility criteria.

(3) DoD Components shall coordinate enforcement actions relating to the accessibility of facilities with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board and shall notify the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, of such coordination.

(4) If a recipient is also a Federal contractor subject to section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the regulations thereunder (41 CFR part 60-741) and if a DoD Component has reason to believe that the recipient is in violation thereof, the DoD Component shall coordinate enforcement actions with the Department of Labor, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs. The DoD Component shall notify the ASD(MRA&L), or designee, of such coordination.
