
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 233 - FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (FVAP)
###### ยง 233.4 Policy.

It is DoD policy that:

(a) The FVAP shall ensure that eligible voters receive, pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(b)(5), information about registration and voting procedures and materials pertaining to scheduled elections, including dates, offices, constitutional amendments, and other ballot proposals.

(b) The right of U.S. citizens to vote is a fundamental right that is afforded protection by the U.S. Constitution. Every eligible voter shall:

(1) Be given an opportunity to register and vote in any election for which he or she is eligible.

(2) Be able to vote in person or by absentee.

(c) All persons assisting in the voting process shall take all necessary steps to prevent discrimination, fraud, intimidation or coercion, and unfair registration and voting assistance procedures. This includes, but is not limited to, preventing actions such as:

(1) Using military authority to influence the vote of any other member of the uniformed services or to require any member to march to any polling place or place of voting as proscribed by 18 U.S.C. 592, 18 U.S.C. 593, and 18 U.S.C. 609. This subsection does not, in any way, prohibit free discussion about political issues or candidates for public office as stated in 18 U.S.C. 609.

(2) Polling any member of the uniformed services before or after he or she votes, as proscribed in 18 U.S.C. 596.

(d) The FVAP shall conduct official surveys authorized by 52 U.S.C. 20301 to report to the President and the Congress on the effectiveness of the assistance provided to eligible voters (including a separate statistical analysis of voter participation and a description of Federal-State cooperation).

(e) DoD personnel involved in assisting in the voter registration or absentee voting process shall use the names of persons applying or declining to register to vote only for voter registration purposes and shall not release such information for any other purpose.

(f) Military or civilian personnel employed in recruitment offices of the Military Services shall be subject to the restrictions outlined in ยง 233.6(b) of this part.

(g) An installation commander may permit non-partisan voter registration activities on an installation by State and county officials, or groups recognized in accordance with section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code, subject to all applicable military installation rules and regulations governing such activities on military installations.
