
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 233 - FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (FVAP)
###### ยง 233.6 Procedures.
####### FVAP Procedures.

(a)FVAP, shall:

(1) Manage, coordinate, and perform the Presidential designee's responsibilities pursuant to 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.

(2) Encourage and assist States and other U.S. jurisdictions to adopt the mandatory and recommended provisions of 52 U.S.C. 20302 and ensure they are aware of the requirements of 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203.

(3) Establish and maintain contact with State election officials, State legislators, and with other State and local government officials to improve the absentee voting process for the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) citizens.

(4) Obtain, from each State, current voter registration and absentee voting information and disseminate it to other Federal Executive departments, agencies, DoD Components, and voters qualified to vote, pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(b)(5).

(5) Establish and maintain a voting assistance program to assist all eligible voters as covered by 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203, and to assist those persons to vote.

(6) Establish and maintain an FVAP Web site that provides:

(i) Information to citizens on the voter registration and absentee voting process.

(ii) Information on the means of electronic transmission of election materials allowed by each State.

(iii) A method to assist citizens in the voter registration process and how to request an absentee ballot.

(iv) A list of State contact information in accordance with 52 U.S.C. 20302(e)(4).

(v) The ability to print a Standard Form (SF) 186, "Federal Write-In Absentee Ballot," and a list of all candidates in a Federal election.

(vi) A portal that hosts Service-specific information regarding voting assistance programs, including links to IVA offices; the contact information for voting assistance officers (installation, major command and commissioned units) within the DoD Component; procedures to order voting materials; and links to other Federal and State voting Web sites.

(vii) Absentee ballot data reported under 52 U.S.C. 20301(b)(6) and (b)(11) and 52 U.S.C. 20308.

(viii) Other information as deemed necessary by FVAP.

(7) Survey U.S. citizens including, but not limited to, uniformed services and their dependents as well as overseas U.S. civilians covered by 52 U.S.C. Ch. 203, voting assistance officers (VAOs), and election officials to gather necessary statistical information and prepare the reports to the President and the Congress required by 52 U.S.C. 20301(6) and 52 U.S.C. 20308.

(8) Prescribe the standard oath to be used with any document pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(7).
