
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 233 - FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (FVAP)
###### ยง 233.6 Procedures.
####### https://www.eac.gov/voters/register-and-vote-in-your-state/,http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/dd/dd2645.pdf

(i) Provide each prospective enlistee with the National Mail Voter Registration Form, available at, and DD Form 2645, Voter Registration Information Form, available at, unless the applicant, in writing, declines to register to vote.

(ii) Distribute the National Mail Voter Registration Form to each eligible citizen and provide assistance in completing the form unless the applicant refuses such assistance.

(iii) Provide each eligible citizen or prospective enlistee who does not decline to register to vote the same degree of assistance for the completion of the National Mail Voter Registration Form as is provided by the office for the completion of its own forms, e.g., the application for enlistment, unless the person refuses such assistance.

(iv) Transmit all completed registration applications within 5 calendar days to the appropriate State election officials.

(v) Maintain statistical information and records on voter registration assistance provided by recruitment offices in the format prescribed by the FVAP, for a period of 2 years, in accordance with 52 U.S.C. 20507(i).

(4) Revise all voting assistance program instructions and procedures to incorporate the provisions of this part.

(5) Establish a DoD Component-wide means to communicate effectively with and expeditiously disseminate voting information to Commanders, VAOs, and uniformed services and overseas DoD civilian members of the DoD Component and their voting age dependents. This communication effort should be coordinated with the FVAP.
