
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 233 - FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (FVAP)
###### ยง 233.6 Procedures.
####### Executive Department and Agency Procedures.

(c)(1) Federal Executive departments and agencies, including, but not limited to, the Department of State, the Department of Commerce, and the Department of Health and Human Services, shall enter into agreements with the Presidential designee to adopt regulations and procedures that conform to this part to the maximum extent practicable, consistent with their organizational missions. By doing so, the FVAP will be able to assist the Executive departments, agencies, and their voting constituencies to the maximum extent.

(2) The head of each Government department, agency, or other entity shall distribute balloting materials and develop a non-partisan program of information and education for all employees and family members pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 20301(c).

(i) The department or agency is responsible for providing voter assistance with assistance available from the FVAP.

(ii) Each department or agency with employees or family members covered by 52 U.S.C. 20301 shall designate an individual to coordinate and administer a voting assistance program for the department or agency to include, where practicable, the responsibilities in this part. The name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number of this individual shall be provided to the FVAP.

(iii) The Secretary of State shall designate a voting action officer at the Department of State headquarters to oversee the Department's program as well as a U.S. citizen at each U.S. embassy or consulate to assist, to the fullest extent practicable, other U.S. citizens residing outside of the United States who are eligible to vote. The Secretary of State shall provide annually, or as requested by the FVAP, estimates of the numbers of U.S. citizens currently residing in each country with an established embassy.

(iv) Each embassy and consulate should have sufficient quantities of materials to include SF 76s, and SF 186s, needed by U.S. citizens to register and vote. Embassies and consulates will also inform and educate U.S. citizens regarding their right to register and vote, and will publicize voter assistance programs.

(v) The Department of State's voting action officer shall coordinate with the FVAP, in the development and conduct of voting events, programs to inform and educate U.S. citizens outside of the United States, and provision of voting information and resources for assistance.

(vi) Department of State and the Military Service voting action officers shall assist, as requested, installation, embassy and consulate VAOs with post-election surveys of U.S. civilians outside of the United States.
