
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 234 - CONDUCT ON THE PENTAGON RESERVATION
###### ยง 234.3 Admission to property.

(a) Access to the Pentagon Reservation or facilities thereon shall be restricted in accordance with AI Number 30and other applicable Department of Defense rules and regulations in order to ensure the orderly and secure conduct of Department of Defense business. Admission to facilities or restricted areas shall be limited to employees and other persons with proper authorization. Forward written requests for copies of the document to Washington Headquarters Services, Executive Services Division, Freedom of Information Division, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1155.

(b) All persons entering or upon the Pentagon Reservation shall, when required and/or requested, display identification to authorized persons.

(c) All packages, briefcases, and other containers brought into, on, or being removed from facilities or restricted areas on the Pentagon Reservation are subject to inspection and search by authorized persons. Persons entering on facilities or restricted areas who refuse to permit an inspection and search will be denied entry.

(d) Any person or organization desiring to conduct activities anywhere on the Pentagon Reservation shall file an application for permit with the applicable Building Management Office or Installation Commander. Such application shall be made on a form provided by the Department of Defense and shall be submitted in the manner specified by the Department of Defense. Violation of the conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited and may result in the loss of access to the Pentagon Reservation.
