
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 234 - CONDUCT ON THE PENTAGON RESERVATION
###### ยง 234.11 Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances.
####### Alcoholic beverages.

(a)The consumption of alcoholic beverages or the possession of an open container of an alcoholic beverage within the Pentagon Reservation is prohibited unless authorized by the Director, Washington Headquarters Services, or his designee, the Installation Commander, or the Heads of the Military Departments, or their designees. Written notice of such authorizations shall be provided to the Pentagon Force Protection Agency.

(b) Controlled substances. The following are prohibited:

(1) The delivery of a controlled substance, except when distribution is made by a licensed physician or pharmacist in accordance with applicable law. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery means the actual, attempted, or constructive transfer of a controlled substance.

(2) The possession of a controlled substance, unless such substance was obtained by the possessor directly from, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order by, a licensed physician or pharmacist, or as otherwise allowed by Federal or State law.

(c) Presence on the Pentagon Reservation when under the influence of alcohol, a drug, a controlled substance, or any combination thereof, to a degree that may endanger oneself or another person, or damage property, is prohibited.
