
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 238 - DoD ASSISTANCE TO NON-GOVERNMENT, ENTERTAINMENT-ORIENTED MEDIA PRODUCTIONS
###### ยง 238.6 Procedures.
####### General.

(a)(1) The producer will be required to sign a written Production Assistance Agreement (see appendices A and B of this part for sample documents), explaining the terms under which DoD's production assistance is provided, with the designee of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, and may be required to post advance payment or a letter of credit issued by a recognized financial institution to cover the estimated costs before receiving DoD assistance.

(2) Official activities of Service members in assisting the production must be within the scope of normal military activities. On-duty service members and DoD civilians are prohibited from serving as actors, such as by speaking filmmaker-invented, or scripted dialogue, unless approved in writing by the ATSD(PA) or his or her designee. With the exception of assigned project officer(s) and technical advisor(s), Service members and DoD civilians will not be assigned to perform functions outside the scope of their normal duties.

(3) Official personnel services and DoD material will not be employed in such a manner as to compete directly with commercial and private enterprises. DoD assets may be provided when similar civilian assets are not reasonably available.
