
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 239 - HOMEOWNERS ASSISTANCE PROGRAM - APPLICATION PROCESSING
###### ยง 239.5 Benefit elections.
####### Government purchase:

(2)Benefit is paid directly to the lender in exchange for government possession of the property. Since the benefit reimburses the applicant a percentage of the applicant's purchase price, if the benefit exceeds the mortgage payoff amount, the applicant will receive a benefit payment for the difference between the mortgage payoff and the total benefit payment. If the applicant has a buyer for the home, the payment of real estate commissions when an applicant's mortgage exceeds the property's current fair market value (i.e., upside down) will be accomplished as follows:

(i) Commission will be at the normal and customary rate for the area (normally six percent) on the price agreed upon by the applicant and the buyer and to whom the Government will then sell the home. While the commission payment is the responsibility of the applicant, the Government will make the commission payment for the applicant when the home is sold by the Government to the applicant's buyer contingent upon both the Government acquisition and Government sale contract transactions being completed and recorded. Commissions will be paid to the broker listing the property. The allocation of dollars to real estate agents will be the responsibility of the listing broker.

(ii) After Government acquisition, the Government will then sell the property to the buyer found by the applicant.

(iii) No other payment of fees or commissions will be made without the prior approval of HQUSACE.
