
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 239 - HOMEOWNERS ASSISTANCE PROGRAM - APPLICATION PROCESSING
###### ยง 239.7 Responsibilities.

(a) The DUSD(I&E), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT&L), shall, in relation to the Expanded HAP:

(1) Prescribe and monitor administrative and operational policies and procedures.

(2) Determine applicable personnel benefits and policies, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.

(3) Serve as senior appeals authority for appeals submitted by applicants.

(b) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall, in relation to the Expanded HAP:

(1) Implement policies and prescribe procedures for financial operations.

(2) Review and approve financial plans and budgets.

(3) Issue financing and obligation authorities.

(4) Administer the DoD Homeowners Assistance Fund.

(c) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Housing (DASA(I&H)), subject to review by the DUSD(I&E), as the DoD Executive Agent for administering, managing, and executing the HAP, shall:

(1) Establish detailed policies and procedures for execution of the program.

(2) Maintain necessary records, prepare reports, and conduct audits.

(3) Publish regulations and forms.

(4) Disseminate information on the program.

(5) Forward copies of completed responses to congressional inquiries and appeals to the DUSD(I&E) for information.

(6) Serve as the initial approval authority for HAP appeals. The DASA(I&H) may approve appeals and shall forward recommendations for Expanded HAP denial to the DUSD(I&E) for decision.

(d) The Heads of the DoD Components and the Commandant of the Coast Guard, by agreement of the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall:

(1) Designate at least one representative at the headquarters level to work with DASA(I&H) and HQUSACE HAP offices.

(2) Require each installation to establish a liaison with the nearest HAP field office to obtain guidance or assistance on the HAP.

(3) Supply the HQUSACE HAP office a copy of any internal regulation, instruction, or guidance published relative to the Expanded HAP program.

(4) Disseminate information on the Expanded HAP and, upon request, supply HAP field offices with data pertaining to the Expanded HAP.
