
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 240 - DOD INFORMATION ASSURANCE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM (IASP)
###### ยง 240.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Department of Defense Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) shall:

(1) Establish overall policy and guidance to conduct and administer the DoD IASP pursuant to Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, "Delegation of Authority and Assignment of Responsibility under section 922 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001," October 30, 2000.

(2) Develop an annual budget recommendation to administer the DoD IASP and provide academic scholarships and grants in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2200 and 7045.

(3) Oversee program administration and execution by the Director, National Security Agency (DIRNSA).

(4) Chair the DoD IASP Steering Committee, established pursuant to DoD Instruction 5105.18, to oversee and provide program direction over:

(i) Student eligibility criteria.

(ii) Grant and capacity building selection criteria for awards to CAEs.

(iii) Final approval for the allocation of individual DoD IASP scholarships and grants.

(iv) Communications and marketing plans.

(v) DoD IASP metrics and analysis of performance results, including student and CAE/IAE feedback.

(b) The DIRNSA, under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, shall:

(1) Serve as the DoD IASP Executive Administrator to:

(i) Implement the DoD IASP and publish in writing all of the criteria, procedures, and standards required for program implementation. Responsibilities are to:

(A) Implement the scholarship application and selection procedures for recruitment and retention students.

(B) Establish procedures for recruiting students to meet service obligations through employment with a DoD Component upon graduation from their academic program.

(C) Ensure that all students' academic eligibility is maintained, service obligations are completed, and that reimbursement obligations for program disenrollment are fulfilled.

(D) Establish procedures for CAEs and employing DoD Components to report on students' progress.

(E) Maintain appropriate accounting for all funding disbursements.

(F) Execute the debt collection process on the behalf of the DoD and in accordance with Volume 5 of DoD 7000.14-R for scholarship recipients who fail to complete a period of obligated service resulting from their participation in the DoD IASP. This includes, but is not limited to, exercising the authority under 10 U.S.C. 2200a(e), consistent with the relevant provisions of 37 U.S.C. 303a(e), to determine an amount owed and to take necessary actions to collect the amount owed, and to act upon requests for waivers, in whole or in part, when determined to be appropriate.

(ii) Subject to availability of funds, make grants on behalf of the DoD CIO to institutions of higher education to support the establishment, improvement, and administration of IA education programs pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200, 2200b, and 7045.

(A) Develop and implement the annual solicitation for proposals for grants.

(B) Coordinate the review process for grant proposals.

(C) Distribute grant funding and maintain appropriate accounting.

(D) Establish annual reporting procedures for grant recipients (CAEs) to detail the resulting accomplishments of their grant implementations.

(E) Obtain written documentation from grant recipients (CAEs) on how grant funding was utilized and the resulting accomplishments.

(2) Provide representation to the DoD IASP Steering Committee and provide briefings and reports, as required, to effect proper oversight by the DoD CIO and the DoD IASP Steering Committee.

(3) Maintain databases to support the analysis of performance results.

(c) The Chancellor of the Information Resources Management College (IRMC) of the National Defense University, under the authority, direction and control of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall:

(1) Establish partner university agreements with CAEs to provide master's and doctoral degree opportunities to current, former, and future IRMC students who are awarded retention scholarships.

(2) Maintain records of DoD IASP student enrollments and graduates and provide data to the DoD IASP Executive Administrator and the DoD CIO as required.

(3) Serve as the liaison between IRMC retention students, their follow-on partner university, and the DoD IASP Executive Administrator.

(4) Provide academic representation to the DoD IASP Steering Committee and provide briefings and reports, as required, on the IRMC portion of the DoD IASP retention program.

(d) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:

(1) Determine the requirement for DoD IASP usage as a primary vehicle to recruit and retain IA and IT personnel.

(2) Identify the office of primary responsibility for administering the DoD IASP within their DoD Component.

(3) Establish DoD Component-specific nomination, selection, and post-academic assignment criteria for DoD IASP retention students.

(i) Nominated personnel shall be high performing employees who are rated at the higher levels of the applicable performance appraisal system and demonstrate sustained quality performance with the potential for increased responsibilities. All individuals must be US citizens and be able to obtain a security clearance.

(ii) Nominations must fulfill specific personnel development requirements for both the individual nominee and the nominating organization.

(iii) Salaries of retention scholarship recipients shall be paid by the nominating DoD Component. When deemed necessary, DoD Components are responsible for personnel backfill while recipients are in school.

(iv) Payback assignments of graduated students shall provide relevant, follow-on utilization of academic credentials in accordance with DoD Component mission requirements.

(v) Retention students shall fulfill post-academic service obligations pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200 and 7045. Members of the Military Services shall serve on active duty while fulfilling designated DoD Component service obligations. DoD civilian employees shall sign a continued service agreement that complies with section 2200 of title 10, United States Code, prior to commencement of their education, to continue service within the Department of Defense upon conclusion of their education, for a period equal to three times the length of the education period. The period of obligated service is in addition to any other period for which the recipient is obligated to serve on active duty or in the civil service, as the case may be. Individuals, who fail to complete the degree program satisfactorily, or to fulfill the service commitment, shall be required to reimburse the United States pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a(e) for payments paid to them through the DoD IASP unless a waiver, in whole or in part, is granted by the DoD IASP Executive Administrator. Head of Components are responsible to ensure enforcement of these agreements.

(4) Determine annual billet requirements for recruitment students (the number of DoD IASP recruitment scholars who will be placed in full-time employment positions with the Component upon graduation). This is required to ensure that IASP recruitment graduates have placement upon graduation. DoD Components who identify billet requirements for recruitment students shall:

(i) Assess DoD Component skill requirements to determine skill gaps and providing the annual recruitment student requirement to the DoD IASP Executive Administrator.

(ii) Participate in the selection process for recruitment students.

(iii) Coordinate and process security clearances for selected recruitment scholarship recipients.

(iv) Allocate billets for an internship period (if applicable).

(v) Assign mentors to recruitment students.

(vi) Determine post-academic billet assignments for recruitment students prior to the end of the students' academic program.

(5) Participate in the evaluation processes to assess and recommend improvements to the DoD IASP.
