
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 240 - DOD INFORMATION ASSURANCE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM (IASP)
###### ยง 240.7 Recruitment program.

(a) Annually, in November, the DoD IASP Executive Administrator announces a solicitation for proposal from CAEs interested in participating in the DoD IASP. Graduate students and rising junior or senior undergraduates accepted at or enrolled in one of these institutions may apply for full scholarships to complete a bachelor's, master's, or a doctoral degree, or graduate (post-baccalaureate) certificate program in one of the disciplines defined in ยง 240.4(c). Student application requirements are included in the solicitation proposal released by NSA.

(b) DoD Component recruitment student requirements are due to the DoD IASP Executive Administrator each year by January 31st.

(c) The student selection process occurs annually in April. The selection process is outlined in the DoD IASP Nomination Process for Recruitment Students.

(d) Recruitment students are provided scholarships, covering the full cost of tuition and selected books and fees. Students are also provided a stipend to cover room and board expenses.

(e) Recruitment students may be required to complete a student internship, depending on the length of their individual scholarship. For example, if a scholar receives a scholarship their junior year, an internship is required. If they receive the scholarship their senior year, an internship is not required. DoD Components typically use the authority granted in 5 CFR 213.3102(r) to arrange the internship.

(f) Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a, all recruitment students shall sign a service agreement prior to commencement of their education and incur a service commitment, which commences after the award of the DoD IASP authorized degree on a date to be determined by the relevant DoD Component. The obligated service in DoD shall be as a civilian employee of the Department or as an active duty enlisted member or officer in one of the Military Services.

(1) Individuals selecting employment in the civil service shall incur a service obligation of 1 year of service to the DoD upon graduation for each year or partial year of scholarship they receive, in addition to an internship, if applicable. Pursuant to the authority granted in 10 U.S.C. 2200a(g) and the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, "Implementation Authority to Employ Individuals Completing Department of Defense Scholarship or Fellow Programs," April 5, 2010. DoD Components may appoint DoD IASP graduates to IT positions as members of the excepted service. Upon satisfactory completion of 2 years of substantially continuous service, DoD Components may then convert these individuals to career or career-conditional appointments without competition.

(2) Individuals enlisting or accepting a commission to serve on active duty in one of the Military Services shall incur a service obligation of a minimum of 4 years on active duty in that Service upon graduation. The Military Services may establish a service obligation longer than 4 years, depending on the occupational specialty and type of enlistment or commissioning program selected.

(g) Individuals in the recruitment program who fail to complete the degree program satisfactorily or to fulfill the service commitment upon graduation shall be required to reimburse the United States pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2200a(e) for payments made to them through the DoD IASP unless a waiver, in whole or in part, is granted by the DoD IASP Executive Administrator.
