
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 245 - PLAN FOR THE EMERGENCY SECURITY CONTROL OF AIR TRAFFIC (ESCAT)
###### Subpart C - The ESCAT Plan
####### ยง 245.11 General description of the ESCAT plan.

The part defines the authorities, responsibilities, and procedures to identify and control air traffic within a specified air defense area during air defense emergencies, defense emergency, or national emergency conditions.

(a) For the purpose of this part, the appropriate military authorities are as follows:

(1) Contiguous 48 U.S. states, including Washington, DC; Alaska; and Canada-Commander NORAD or individual NORAD Region/Sector commanders.

(2) Hawaii, Guam, Wake Island, other U.S. Pacific Territories, and Pacific oceanic airspace over which FAA has air traffic control jurisdiction by international agreement-Commander, U.S. Pacific Command (USPACOM) or designated AADC.

(3) Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands-Commander, NORAD.

(b) This part provides for security control of both civil and military air traffic. It is intended to meet threat situations such as:

(1) An emergency resulting in the declaration of an Air Defense Emergency by the appropriate military authority. Under this condition, NORAD and USPACOM Commanders have authority to implement ESCAT and may consider executing this part.

(2) An adjacent Combatant Command is under attack and an Air Defense Emergency has not yet been declared. Under these conditions, NORAD and USPACOM Commanders may direct implementation of ESCAT for their own AORs individually, if airspace control measures are warranted and agreed upon by DoD/DHS/DOT.

(3) Emergency conditions exist that either threaten national security or national interests vital to the U.S., but do not warrant declaration of Defense Emergency or Air Defense Emergency. Under these conditions, NORAD and USPACOM Commanders may direct implementation of ESCAT for their own AORs individually, if airspace control measures are warranted and agreed upon by DoD/DHS/DOT.
