
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 245 - PLAN FOR THE EMERGENCY SECURITY CONTROL OF AIR TRAFFIC (ESCAT)
###### Subpart C - The ESCAT Plan
####### ยง 245.12 Amplifying instructions.

(a) Prior to any formal ESCAT implementation, the appropriate military authority will consult with DOT through the FAA Administrator and DHS through the TSA Administrator to discuss the air traffic management, airspace and/or security measures required. Every effort will be made to obtain the approval of the Secretary of Defense prior to ESCAT declaration, time and circumstance permitting. Any ESCAT implementation will be passed as soon as possible through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the Secretary of Defense.

(b) ESCAT may be implemented in phases to facilitate a smooth transition from normal air traffic identification and control procedures to the more restrictive identification and control procedures specific to the situation.

(c) Once ESCAT is implemented, the appropriate military authority will consult regularly with DOT (through the FAA Administrator) and DHS (through the TSA Administrator) as appropriate, regarding any changes in the air traffic management, airspace, and/or security measures required.

(d) Interference with normal air traffic should be minimized.

(e) The process for implementation of measures for mitigation of hostile use of NAVAID signals, when required, will be subject to separate agreement between DoD and other Departments and Agencies.

(f) Upon the formal declaration of ESCAT, the appropriate military authority has the final authority regarding the extent of measures necessary for successful mission completion.

(g) The rules/procedures governing Special Use Airspace (SUA) will remain in effect until notified by the appropriate military authority. The appropriate military authority will address SUA use in the ESCAT activation message.

(h) Appropriate Combatant Commanders, in conjunction with their FAA and TSA Liaisons, will prepare supplements to this part for their area of responsibility. These supplements are to consider the special requirement of organized civil defense and disaster relief flights, agricultural and forest fire flights, border patrol flights, and other essential civil air operations so that maximum use of these flights, consistent with air defense requirements, will be made when ESCAT is in effect.

(i) Flight operations vital to national defense, as determined by appropriate military commanders, will be given priority over all other military and civil aircraft.

(j) Prior to or subsequent to the declaration of an Air Defense Emergency, Defense Emergency, or National Emergency, there may be a requirement to disperse military aircraft for their protection. If such dispersal plans are implemented when any part of this part has been placed in effect, operations will be in accordance with the requirements of that portion of the ESCAT plan that is in effect. If any part of the ESCAT plan is ordered while dispersal is in progress, dispersal operations will be revised as required to comply with ESCAT.

(k) Direct communications are authorized between appropriate agencies and units for the purpose of coordinating and implementing the procedures in this part.

(l) To ensure implementation actions can be taken expeditiously, ESCAT tests will be conducted periodically, but at least annually in accordance with ยง 245.31 of this part.

(m) The area of responsibility of the appropriate military authority does not always align with ARTCC boundaries, especially in the NORAD area where one ARTCC's boundaries may lie within two or more CONUS NORAD Sectors. For NORAD and USPACOM, the FAA ARTCCs/CERAPs are aligned as follows:

(n) Commander NORAD, acting for the DoD, will process and distribute administrative and organizational changes as they occur; however, this part will be reviewed at least once every two years by DHS/TSA, DOT/FAA, and DoD and reissued or changed as required. Recommended changes should be forwarded to: Headquarters North American Air Defense Command, Commander NORAD/J3, ATTN: NJ33C, 250 Vandenberg Street, Suite B106, Peterson AFB, CO 80914-3818.
