
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 245 - PLAN FOR THE EMERGENCY SECURITY CONTROL OF AIR TRAFFIC (ESCAT)
###### Subpart C - The ESCAT Plan
####### ยง 245.13 Responsibilities.

(a) The NORAD and USPACOM Commanders will:

(1) Establish the military requirements for ESCAT.

(2) Implement the plan as appropriate by declaring ESCAT (including the timing and scope) within their AOR.

(3) Terminate the plan as appropriate by discontinuing ESCAT (including the timing and scope) within their AOR.

(4) Coordinate with the Secretary of Defense or his designee, the CJCS, other Combatant Commands, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Homeland Security and the Canadian Minister of National Defence, as appropriate, regarding procedures for ESCAT implementation.

(b) The DOT (through the FAA Administrator) will:

(1) Establish the necessary FAA directives/plans including special ATC procedures to implement this part.

(2) Maintain liaison with Combatant Commands whose AORs include FAA areas of authority through the appropriate LNO, or FAA ADLO offices.

(3) Administer this part in accordance with established requirements.

(4) Ensure authorized FAA ADLO positions at NORAD facilities are staffed.

(5) Publish a common use document describing ESCAT and its purpose for use by civil aviation.

(6) Ensure FAA participation with the Combatant Commands in the testing of this part.

(7) Ensure the FAA Air Traffic Organization Service Units will:

(i) Disseminate information and instructions implementing this part within their AORs.

(ii) Place in effect procedures outlined in this part.

(iii) Assist appropriate military authorities in making supplemental agreements to this part as may be required.

(iv) Ensure each ARTCC/CERAP has a plan for diverting or landing expeditiously all aircraft according to the ESCAT priorities imposed upon implementation of ESCAT. Ensure a review and verification of the diversion plan is accomplished each calendar year.

(8) Ensure the ATCSCC/ARTCC/CERAPs will:

(i) Participate with Combatant Commanders in the training/testing of this part at all operational level.

(ii) Ensure dissemination of information and instructions implementing this part within their AORs.

(iii) Place in effect procedures outlined in this part.

(iv) Develop a plan for diverting or landing expeditiously all aircraft according to the ESCAT priorities imposed upon implementation of ESCAT. Review the diversion plan each calendar year.

(c) The DHS (through the TSA Administrator) will:

(1) Establish the necessary TSA directives/plans including special security procedures to implement this part.

(2) Maintain liaison with Combatant Commands whose AORs include TSA geographic areas of authority through the appropriate Federal Security Directors or other field offices.

(3) Administer this part in accordance with established requirements.

(4) Ensure authorized TSA liaison positions at NORAD facilities are staffed.

(5) Issue security directives describing ESCAT and its purpose for use by airport and aircraft operators.

(6) Ensure TSA participation with the Combatant Commands in the testing of this part.

(7) Ensure TSA Federal Security Directors and field offices:

(i) Disseminate information and instructions implementing this part within their AOR.

(ii) Implement procedures outlined in this part.

(iii) Assist appropriate military authorities in making supplemental agreements to this part, as necessary.

(d) The Commanders of Combatant Commands will:

(1) Ensure that departing North American strategic flights are coordinated with appropriate NORAD and FAA/NAVCANADA authorities.

(2) Ensure training/testing of this part at all levels within their command, as appropriate.
