
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 245 - PLAN FOR THE EMERGENCY SECURITY CONTROL OF AIR TRAFFIC (ESCAT)
###### Subpart D - Procedures for Implementation of ESCAT
####### ยง 245.15 Appropriate military authority.

Appropriate military authority will take the following actions:

(a) Notify or coordinate, as appropriate, the extent or termination of ESCAT implementation with DOT and DHS.

(b) Disseminate the extent of ESCAT implementation through the Noble Eagle Conferences and the FAA DEN.

(c) Specify what restrictions are to be implemented. Some examples of restrictions to be considered include:

(1) Defining the affected area.

(2) Defining the type of aircraft operations that are authorized.

(3) Defining the routing restrictions on flights entering or operating within appropriate portions of the affected area.

(4) Defining restrictions for the volume of air traffic within the affected area, using the EATPL, paragraph 245.22 of this part) and Security Control Authorizations, as required.

(5) Setting altitude limitations on flight operations in selected areas.

(6) Restricting operations to aircraft operators regulated under specified security programs (e.g., the Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and the Domestic Security Integration Program (DSIP).

(d) Revise or remove restrictions on the movement of air traffic as the tactical situation permits.
