
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 246 - Business and Financial Operations
####### General Financial Operations.

A.1. For financial management purposes, the Unified Commands shall administer the Stars and Stripes (S&S), with policy oversight exercised by the Director of the American Forces Information Service (AFIS), as nonappropriated fund instrumentalities (NAFIs) in accordance with ยง 246.4(c), except where procedures differ as defined in this part. The S&S shall report as prescribed in DoD Instruction 7000.12,providing information copies to the Unified Commands and the Director of the AFIS.

a. The S&S shall be authorized nonappropriated fund (NAF) and appropriated fund (APF) support as category B NAFIs as provided under DoD Instruction 1015.6.

b. The S&S shall be funded to the maximum extent possible through the sale and distribution of the newspaper, news magazines, books, periodicals, and similar products; job printing; authorized advertising revenues; and other authorized sources of revenue, as approved by the Department of Defense and the Congress.

c. APF support shall be kept to a minimum, consistent with the S&S mission.

2. The Secretary of the Army shall be the DoD Executive Agent for APF and NAF support to the S&S. If adverse conditions occur, the other Military Services shall provide proportionate funding support through a memorandum of agreement (MOA) containing funding procedures coordinated with the affected Unified Commands and the AFIS. Copies of the agreement shall be provided to all concerned parties.

3. The Stars and Stripes and other S&S commercial resale publications may be made available within the Unified Command to other U.S. Government Agency members, and U.S. Government contractors, as approved by the Unified Command.

4. The S&S system of accounting and internal control shall conform with the requirements of DoD Instruction 7000.12, Army regulations on Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) activities and NAFIs, and NAF accounting policies and procedures, except as authorized by the S&S Comptroller's Manual to meet business and consolidation requirements. The S&S shall ensure that quarterly reports are furnished to the Unified Commands, the S&S Board of Directors, and the Director of the AFIS.
