
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 246 - Business and Financial Operations
####### Appropriated Funds.

B.In addition to DoD Directive 1015.6, the S&S shall be authorized APF support:

1. As provided by the U.S. Army for direct funding support when adverse conditions make such funding necessary to ensure the survival of the newspaper without impairment of mission capability. The Secretary of the Army shall provide such funding when requested by the affected Unified Command Commander-in-Chief (CINC), through the Director of the AFIS.

2. For regional air transportation of the newspaper, overseas "transportation of things" as authorized to joint-Service NAFIs; and electronic, optical, or satellite transmission of the newspaper when long distances require these modes to ensure timely and economical delivery.

3. As required, to transport Stars and Stripes to officially designated "remote and isolated" locations. The Unified Commands may authorize DoD official postage to remote and isolated locations, if that action is required to ensure timely delivery. Each S&S shall annually review its mailing support to minimize APF expenditures. The U.S. postal regulations apply to the S&S.

a. The S&S shall use in-house or other non-postal means of transportation to distribute the newspaper to areas that are not designated as remote and isolated.

b. The S&S are authorized to use official managerial and administrative mail related exclusively to the business of the U.S. Government in accordance with DoD 4525.8-M,Chapter 3, Subsection O.8. Such official mail is also authorized to support archive responsibilities in the United States, as designated by the AFIS. Official mail may forward the Stars and Stripes through the Department of Defense to the Congress. Official mail is not authorized to provide the Stars and Stripes to general readership or to support in-theater distribution of S&S resale commercial publications.

4. For transportation of military personnel incident to mission-essential travel, required military training, participation in contingency operations, in military field exercises, such as "REFORGER" or "TEAM SPIRIT," or to areas of armed conflict.

5. In times of armed conflict or national contingency deployment, as directed by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for production and free distribution of the Stars and Stripes to forces as designated. The other Military Services shall reimburse the Department of the Army for services as authorized in the MOA. The Unified Commands shall endeavor to provide the Stars and Stripes and other S&S services for DoD personnel engaged in military operations, contingency operations, and exercises in the most expeditious manner possible as requested by the participating commands. The requesting Unified Command shall be responsible for distribution of the Stars and Stripes within its theater of operations. These services shall be provided on a reimbursable basis to the S&S.

6. In other agreements as made with the Unified Commands, the Department of Defense, and the U.S. Army as the DoD Executive Agency.
