
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 246 - Business and Financial Operations
####### Nonapproriated Funds.

C.1. So that the Department of the Army may perform its duties as the DoD Executive Agency, the S&S NAFS shall be invested in the Army's Banking and Investment Program and insured with the Army's Risk Management Insurance Program in accordance with DoD instruction 7000.12 and the implementing Army regulations.

2. Excess NAFs belonging to the S&S may be declared excess by the Unified Command CINC, upon the recommendation of the S&S board of directors, under the guidelines in section C.3. of this appendix. Disposition of excess NAFs shall be as directed by the Unified Command CINC. The S&S NAFs declared in excess in one theater may be allocated or loaned to the other Unified Command for S&S-related activities.

3. The S&S NAFs may be declared in excess only if the following conditions are met:

a. The S&S working capital is at a level to continue prudent operations.

b. The local national S&S employee retirement and severance accounts are fully funded. The other S&S employment agreements required by applicable NAF regulations must also be fully funded.

c. Sufficient capital is available from an investment and/or contingency fund to complete all planned and projected capital expenditure projects, and to fulfill the other legitimate S&S business obligations.

d. Additional sinking funds are available to sustain the S&S through foreseeable periods of financial crisis created by adverse conditions. The sinking fund level shall be determined by the S&S board of directors and recommended to the Unified Command CINC for approval.

e. The retail price of the Stars and Stripes is at, or below, the most prevalent charge for similar U.S. newspapers. That shall be determined by the S&S board of directors and recommended to the Unified Command CINC for approval. The Director of the AFIS will be informed of any decision to raise the retail sales price of Stars and Stripes and will provide the Unified Command CINC an assessment of average commercial newspaper sales prices throughout the United States. The availability of the Stars and Stripes at reasonable cost to overseas personnel, commensurate with the retail sales price of comparable commercial newspapers throughout the United States, is a major quality-of-life consideration. A reasonable retail sales price is critical to ensure the greatest access for all overseas personnel and their family members to current print news and information so that they may remain informed U.S. citizens.

f. The S&S books, periodicals, magazines, and similar products are to be sold at no more than cover price and should be discounted to an appropriate level that still sustains full S&S operations, as determined by the S&S board of directors and recommended to the Unified Command CINC for approval.

4. Under adverse conditions, the S&S commander/publisher may apply for NAF support through the Unified Commands to the Director of the AFIS. Following approval by the Unified Command, the Director of the AFIS shall forward the request to the Secretary of the Army for appropriate action. Such NAF requests must first be recommended by the S&S board of directors and approved by the Unified Command CINC. In these cases, the S&S NAFs in either Unified Command may be considered as the first source before forwarding a request to the Department of the Army. The Unified Commands may lend NAFs from one S&S to the other through an MOA.
