
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 246 - Business and Financial Operations
####### Bookstores and Related Resale Activities.

D.1. The S&S shall endeavor to provide the same selection of resale commercial publications that would be available in quality bookstores in the United States through its bookstores, or, at the discretion of the S&S management, other authorized sales outlets. The S&S has the same authorities and rights for resale and distribution of commercial publications that the military exchange services have on military installations for other nonsubsistence goods and services. The assortment of commercial books, periodicals, magazines, and similar products shall approximate publications commercially available in United States bookstore chains of similar size. Decisions on which publications to include shall be made by the S&S on the basis of marketability and service, not content. As an exception to the Army NAF procurement regulations, contracting authority limitations applicable to U.S. Army and joint-Service NAFIs do not apply to the S&S procurement of resale commercial publications. Limitations will be as recommended by the S&S board of directors and approved by the Unified Command.

2. The Unified Command CINC shall adjudicate publications resale issues within the theater that cannot be resolved by the S&S at the operating level.

3. Both S&S shall consolidate their wholesale purchases of commercial publications to the maximum extent, consistent with Unified Command distribution criteria, actual economies of scale, and cost-efficiencies. Consolidation initiatives shall be worked in concert with the Unified Commands, the AFIS, and the S&S board of directors. As recommended by the S&S board of directors and approved by the Unified Command CINC, the S&S bookstores shall offer discounts similar to commercial United States bookstore franchises. The offering of discounts should not endanger the financial viability of the S&S.

4. The S&S bookstores shall be audited by the S&S management at least annually. Where bookstores are operating at a consistent financial loss, the S&S may consider servicing readers through arrangements with exchanges, other military outlets, or consider consolidation at central points.

a. Bookstore inventory levels shall be verified internally on a semiannual basis. Inventory levels shall be held to cost-effective levels that still consider the servicing needs of overseas customers.

b. The S&S shall establish affidavit-return procedures to vendors and/or publishers, where possible, to return damaged merchandise, overstock, or out-of-date publications to reduce APF expenditures necessary for "over-the-water" transportation.

5. The S&S shall conduct local "market-penetration" surveys. The S&S shall also operate a "customer-complaint" feedback system to monitor its service and provide the best possible service to its customers. The results of those surveys shall be provided to the Unified Command with recommendations to the S&S board of directors, as required.
