
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 246 - Business and Financial Operations
####### Advertising.

E.1. As U.S. Government publications, the Stars and Stripes operate under the authority of the "Government Printing & Binding Regulations"issued by the Joint Committee on Printing (JCP) of the U.S. Congress. To serve the readership, the JCP has granted an exemption to Title III of the "Government Printing and Binding Regulations", authorizing the Stars and Stripes to carry limited advertising so that they may provide information to overseas DoD personnel and their families on commercial goods and services. The Stars and Stripes are authorized to solicit, sell, publish, and circulate display advertising, paid classified ads, and supplement section advertising, to include price and brand names of products or services and related coupons that are available through authorized Government outlets, their concessionaires, NAF activities, or private organizations operating on DoD installations under 32 CFR part 212. The Stars and Stripes may have run-of-the-paper display advertising not to exceed 25 percent of the newspaper over a period of 1 month. In addition, the Stars and Stripes are authorized to sell, publish, and circulate display advertising, and supplement section advertising for consumer goods and services not available through authorized Government outlets, their concessionaires, NAF activities, or private organizations operating on DoD installations under 32 CFR part 212 when sponsored by MWR activities, NAFIs, or Type I (Federally Sanctioned) private organizations as defined by 32 CFR part 212. Implementation of the advertising authority shall be as specified by the Director of the AFIS, who shall coordinate with the JCP.

2. The Stars and Stripes may sell, through commercial advertising agencies, run-of-the-paper advertising of DoD recruiting and retention programs or activities.

3. The S&S has the right to refuse any advertising.

4. The Stars and Stripes may publish news stories on special DoD-affiliated tours or entertainment opportunities for DoD personnel and their dependents in accordance with DoD Instructions 1015.2and 1330.13.

5. The S&S may promote the Stars and Stripes, books, periodicals, magazines and similar products; authorized advertising; and job printing services (except APF) in the Stars and Stripes. Books, periodicals, magazines, and similar product promotions may include publications by name, title, author, and price. The Stars and Stripes also may promote literacy, health, safety, and other community service issues.

6. The S&S may promote AFRTS schedules, programs, and services in their newspapers and bookstores. The S&S shall cooperate with AFRTS outlets to promote each others' programs and services as authorized by DoD Directive 5120.20.

7. As a newspaper operated by the Department of Defense, the Stars and Stripes may not:

a. Contain any material that implies that the DoD Components or their subordinate levels endorse or favor a specific commercial and/or individually-owned product, commodity, or service.

b. Subscribe, even at no cost, to a commercial, feature wire, or other service whose primary purpose is the advertisement or promotion of commercial products, commodities, or services.

c. Carry any advertisement that implies discrimination as to race, age, origin, gender, politics, religion, or physical characteristics that include health.
