
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix C to Part 246 - Personnel Policies and Procedures
####### Military Officer Personnel Procedures.

C.1. Candidates for the S&S military officer positions shall be nominated by the Military Services, through the Director of the AFIS, to the Unified Command Commander-in-Chief (CINC), who shall make the final selection. The S&S military officer positions considered for nomination shall be the S&S commander/publisher and deputy commander(s).

a. The S&S commander/publisher should have military public affairs and joint-Service experience, and a journalism degree.

b. The S&S officers supervising business operations should have experience in DoD Comptroller functions and be familiar with laws and regulations applicable to DoD and NAFI business operations. A master's degree in business administration is desirable, but not mandatory.

c. Instead of an advanced degree or military public affairs experience, nominees may be authorized, by the Unified Command CINC and the AFIS, to substitute a DoD-funded "training-with-industry" program with comparable newspaper operations in the United States.

d. The Unified Commands shall forecast military vacancies in the S&S to allow time for the Military Services' nomination processes to be completed and provide for education before the S&S assignment.

e. The Military Services shall provide highly qualified officers for all S&S assignments at the required grade levels.

2. Military officers selected for duty as S&S commander/publisher shall undergo a "training-with-industry" program to provide real-world training with a commercial newspaper. That program shall be administered by the Director of the AFIS, in coordination with the Military Services and the Unified Commands.
