
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix C to Part 246 - Personnel Policies and Procedures
####### Enlisted Members of the Stars and Stripes Editorial Staff.

D.1. Enlisted military personnel shall be assigned to the Stars and Stripes editorial staff, as reflected in the designated Unified Command Joint Manpower Program (JMP) documents, on a nominative basis. The Military Services shall nominate the most mature and professional personnel for assignment to the Stars and Stripes editorial staff at the required JMP grade- and experience-level, coordinating with the Unified Commands and the Director of the AFIS. Nominations shall be considered on a competitive basis by the S&S commander/publisher and the Stars and Stripes editor. The S&S shall request nominations 18 months before projected billet vacancies. The Military Services shall forward nominations 6-10 months in advance to the S&S, (ATTN: S&S Commander/Publisher). The Military Services shall provide the S&S with reasonable overlap of military enlisted members serving on the Stars and Stripes editorial staff.

2. The S&S commander/publisher shall coordinate with the Unified Commands to ensure that there is an appropriate mixture of Military Service billets and/or assignments represented in the S&S to preserve the tradition of the Stars and Stripes as joint-Service newspapers.
