
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 246 - Editorial Operations
####### General.

A.1. The Stars and Stripes shall serve the interests of their overseas DoD readership, as commercial daily newspapers serve their readers throughout the United States. However, as a Government organization, the Stars and Stripes news staff may not take an independent editorial position. The Stars and Stripes editorial practices and policies shall be in accordance with the highest standards of American journalism.

2. The Stars and Stripes editor, with the concurrence of the S&S commander/publisher, and the Unified Command Commander-in-Chief (CINC), as the owner of the newspaper, may establish a standard code of personal and professional ethics and general editorial principles similar to those developed at major metropolitan newspapers or by professional journalists in organizations such as the Society of Professional Journalists. Those codes usually stress the following:

a. Responsibility of the newspaper to fully inform its readership.

b. Freedom of the press.

c. Commitment to personal and professional ethics.

d. Emphasis on content accuracy, objectivity, and fair representation of all sides of an issue.

When developed, copies of the code and style guides shall be provided to the Unified Command CINC and the Director of the American Forces Information Service (AFIS).

3. The Stars and Stripes editor shall be responsible for developing editorial procedures and, if required, a style guide that mirrors daily U.S. commercial newspapers.

4. The editorial content of the Stars and Stripes shall be governed by the general principles applicable to quality commercial press as follows:
