
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 246 - Editorial Operations
####### Political Campaign News.

d.(1) The Stars and Stripes shall publish coverage of the U.S. political campaigns from commercial news sources. Presentation of such political campaign news shall be made on an impartial, unbiased, and nonpartisan basis reflecting DoD policies of non-endorsement of any specific candidate for an elected office. Every effort should be made to ensure that the Stars and Stripes reflect the full spectrum of campaign news being published in the United States on national candidates and issues.

(2) The Stars and Stripes shall support the Federal Voting Assistance Program by carrying factual information about registration and voting laws.

e. The Stars and Stripes shall provide balance in commercial syndicated columns. Since the Stars and Stripes may not take an independent editorial position, a balanced selection of syndicated opinion columns shall be published over a reasonable time period. The presentation of syndicated editorial cartoons should reflect the full spectrum of topical editorial cartoons being published throughout the United States. The S&S commander/publisher shall provide the Unified Commands annual assurance that the required balance for syndicated opinion columns has been met.
