
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 246 - Editorial Operations
####### Editorial.

C.1. The Stars and Stripes news staffs are authorized to gather and report news, good and bad, on the Department of Defense and its subordinate commands. All reporting necessarily requires some investigation and, as with journalists on commercial newspapers, the Stars and Stripes news staff members have the right and need to ask questions and expect response to fulfill the S&S mission. However, the Stars and Stripes is not an authorized investigative agency, such as military law enforcement agencies, investigative bodies, or an Inspector General, and shall not function in that capacity. As DoD employees, the Stars and Stripes news staff members must adhere to the DoD personnel policies that may not usually apply to journalists employed by commercial newspapers and must comply with 32 CFR part 40 and, as applicable, the Manual for Courts Martial, 1984.

a. Since most journalistic reporting is investigative by nature, "investigative reporting," as such, is not banned. The Stars and Stripes reporters have the same need to ask questions of sources, and expect responses, as do commercial newspaper journalists. While the Stars and Stripes staff cannot conduct independent investigations that fall under the jurisdiction of various military law enforcement or designated investigative agencies, the Stars and Stripes may report on open or completed investigations by agencies authorized to perform investigative functions. If the Stars and Stripes employees note unlawful or criminal actions in their performance of duty, they must report such incidents immediately to the S&S commander/publisher or to their immediate supervisor, in accordance with 32 CFR part 40, who shall also comply with 32 CFR part 40 and, as applicable, DoD Directive 7050.1and DoD Instruction 5240.4.If there is an authorized investigation, a Stars and Stripes reporter or editor cannot protect a source as confidential when the information may be required to complete the investigation. Coverage of an investigation, from a news perspective, should be based on case progress or the resolution provided by the investigative agency if considered newsworthy by the Stars and Stripes. The Stars and Stripes editorial procedures shall not prohibit publishing news of independent investigations furnished by commercial media and, therefore, in the public domain.

b. The Stars and Stripes staff may not knowingly place classified information in Stars and Stripes staff-generated material. That does not apply to public domain information attributed to commercially contracted news, features, or opinion columns.

2. The Stars and Stripes editorial staffs shall receive the same treatment as commercial media.

a. The Stars and Stripes reporters shall have the same right to ask questions, to gain help, to have access, and to attend gatherings available to reporters from the commercial media. Commanders or public affairs staffs may not use the U.S. Government status of Stars and Stripes reporters to block the release of, or access to, otherwise releasable news, information, or events. Under the same circumstances, the Stars and Stripes reporters may not use their U.S. Government status or credentials to gain special treatment, access to restricted areas or gatherings, or other advantages that are not given equally to civilian media.

b. In keeping with the "Principles of Information" in 32 CFR part 375 governing release of information to commercial media, the DoD Components are expected to make available timely and accurate information so that the Stars and Stripes news staffs and readers may assess and understand the facts about their military organizations, the national defense, and defense strategy. Consistent with statutory requirements, information shall be made fully and readily available under the principles for the release of information to the media issued by the Secretary of Defense. A Government organization may not file a request for information against another Government organization under 32 CFR part 285, which implements the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) in the Department of Defense, but it is the responsibility of all commands to honor the DoD Principles of Information, particularly regarding the intent of open access as described in 32 CFR part 285 when responding to queries from Stars and Stripes reporters.

3. To meet organizational responsibilities, the Stars and Stripes editor, the S&S commander/publisher, and the Stars and Stripes staff members they select, should meet frequently with area commanders and public affairs officers and staffs to confer, as their counterparts in U.S. commercial daily newspapers do with local government and community interest representatives.

4. When matters of interest to the Stars and Stripes readership cut across the Unified Command component command responsibilities, the Stars and Stripes editor may use "special project reporting teams" to examine such concerns. Whether the areas of Stars and Stripes interest are military exercises, fast-breaking news affecting the entire Unified Command community, or policies that require a greater-than-individual-reporter effort, the Stars and Stripes editor, through the S&S commander/publisher, can gain help by keeping the Unified Command and its component command public affairs offices informed of the need for theater-wide assistance. Such aid could help dispel morale-damaging rumors.

5. The Stars and Stripes shall conduct readership surveys at least once every 3 years in the Unified Commands where the Stars and Stripes are distributed. Such formal surveys shall be conducted in accordance with DoD Instruction 1100.13. The S&S may make shorter market surveys through its bookstore operations to determine changing readership interests. The Stars and Stripes is also encouraged to make frequent use of readership focus groups throughout the Unified Command.

6. The Stars and Stripes may review commercial entertainment where relevant and where it supports readership interest.

7. All bureau personnel and field reporters shall have Stars and Stripes newsroom experience before being given independent assignments. The Stars and Stripes military reporters may wear military or civilian clothes at the discretion of the S&S commander/publisher. If authorized by the S&S commander/publisher, Stars and Stripes military members may be authorized a clothing allowance in accordance with individual Service directives.

8. The Stars and Stripes are both authorized to maintain a Washington, DC, bureau located with other correspondent bureaus in the OASD (PA) Correspondents' Corridor. A desk will be provided for each Stars and Stripes. The S&S shall select the most qualified reporters possible for assignment to the bureau. A joint memorandum of understanding on personnel support shall be established between the two newspapers and approved by the Unified Commands, with a copy provided to the Director of the AFIS.
