
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 246 - STARS AND STRIPES (S&S) NEWSPAPER AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS
###### Appendix E to Part 246 - Stars and Stripes (S&S) Board of Directors
####### Organization and Management.

A.1. The S&S board of directors of each Unified Command shall provide advice to the S&S management, and recommend guidance to its Commander-in-Chief (CINC) on all business operations. Attendance is at the direction of the Unified Command CINC.

2. Each Unified Command CINC shall designate the chairman of its S&S board of directors.

3. Each S&S board of directors shall include a member from the Unified Command Offices of Public Affairs and the Comptroller, and at least one member from each of the Unified Command Service components. Members shall be appointed by the Unified Command CINC for 2 years to ensure continuity. They shall be the best qualified personnel available in business-related disciplines. Members should be at the grade of 0-5, GS-12, or higher. Other than the Unified Command and the S&S senior representatives, the S&S board members should not be members of any other S&S forums or councils. Representatives from the American Forces Information Service (AFIS) and one S&S may attend the meetings of the other S&S board of directors and have their observations included in the minutes, but they are not voting members. Recommendations approved by the S&S board of directors may be incorporated by the Unified Command CINC into the Unified Command S&S instruction or directive, as applicable.

4. The S&S board of directors should meet at least three times each year. The minutes of each meeting shall be approved by the Unified Command CINC. The approved S&S board recommendations shall be incorporated, as permanent policy, into the Unified Command S&S implementing instructions or directives. Where such recommendations affect DoD policy, the Unified Commands shall ask the Director of the AFIS for resolution. The S&S commander/publisher shall provide sufficient documentation to the S&S board members between meetings to inform them of on-going business operations and the execution of financial actions.
