
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### Assignment of personnel.

E.Neither military nor DoD civilian personnel shall be assigned to duty at the premises of the CE publisher. Neither military nor DoD civilian personnel shall perform any job functions that are part of the business activities or contractual responsibilities of the CE publisher either at the contractor's facility or the Government facility. The PAO and staff who produce the non-advertising content of the CE publication may perform certain installation liaison functions on publisher premises including monitoring and coordinating layout and design and other publishing details set forth in the contract to ensure the effective presentation of information. One or more members of the public affairs staff shall review proof copy to prevent mistakes. Newspaper text-editing-system pagination and copy terminals owned by the CE publisher may be placed in the command or installation public affairs office under contractual agreement for use by the public affairs staff to coordinate layout and ensure that the preparation of editorial material is performed in such a way as to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the printing and publication functions performed by the CE publisher. All costs of these terminals shall be borne by the CE newspaper publishers who shall retain title to the equipment and full responsibility for any damage to or loss of such equipment. The relationship between the public affairs staff and employees of the CE contractor is that of Government employees working with employees of a private contractor. Supervision of CE employees; that is, the responsibility to rate performance, set rate of pay, grant vacation time, exercise discipline, assign day-to-day administrative tasks, etc., remains with the CE publisher. Any modification of the contract must be made by the responsible contracting officer. Public affairs staff members must be aware that employees of the contractor are not employees of the government and should be treated accordingly.
