
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### Distribution of CE publications.

F.

1. A funded newspaper shall not be distributed as an insert to a CE newspaper, unless provided for in the CE contract, nor shall a CE newspaper be distributed as an insert to a funded newspaper.

2. Supplements, clearly labeled as such, and advertising inserts, may be inserted into and distributed with a CE newspaper.

3. The commercial publisher of a CE publication shall make as much of the distribution to the intended readership as possible. CE publications may be distributed through official channels.

4. Except as authorized by the next higher headquarters for special situations or occasions (such as an installation open house), CE publications shall not be distributed outside the intended DoD audience and retirees, which includes family members. Electronic publication on the internet/world wide web is not considered distribution outside the intended DoD audience. The CE publisher may provide complete copies of each specific issue of a CE publication to an advertiser whose advertisement is carried therein.

5. The CE publisher of a CE newspaper will provide the appropriate number of news racks determined by the installation commander for publication distribution.

CE publishers are responsible for maintenance of these racks.

6. CE guides, magazines, and installation maps may be delivered in bulk quantities to the appropriate installation offices to distribute these publications through official channels as necessary.
