
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### Responsibilities regarding advertising.

G.

1. Only the CE publisher shall use the space agreed upon for advertising. While the editorial content of the publication is completely controlled by the installation, the advertising section, including its content, is the responsibility of the CE publisher. The public affairs staff, however, retains the responsibility to review advertisements before they are printed.

2. Any decision by a CE publisher to accept or reject an advertisement is final. The PAO may discuss with a publisher their decision not to run an advertisement, but cannot substitute his judgment for that of the publisher.

3. Before each issue of a CE publication is printed, the public affairs staff shall review advertisements to identify any that are contrary to law or to DoD or Military Service regulations, including this part, or that may pose a danger or detriment to DoD personnel or their family members, or that interfere with the command or installation missions. It is in the command's best interest to carefully apply DoD and Service regulations and request exclusion of only those advertisements that are clearly in violation of this part. If any such advertisements are identified, the public affairs office shall obtain a legal coordination of the proposed exclusion. After coordination, the public affairs office shall request, in writing if necessary, that the commercial publisher delete any such advertisements. If the publisher prints the issue containing the objectionable advertisement(s), the commander may prohibit distribution in accordance with DoD Directive 1325.6.

4. DoD Directive 1325.6 gives the commander authority to prohibit distribution on the installation of a CE publication containing advertising he or she determines likely to promote a situation leading to potential riots or other disturbances, or when the circulation of such advertising may present a danger to loyalty, discipline, or morale of personnel. Each commander shall determine whether particular advertisements to be placed by the publisher in a CE publication serving the command or installation may interfere with successful mission performance. Some considerations in this decision are the local situation, the content of the proposed advertisement, and the past performance of the advertiser. Prior to making a determination to prohibit distribution of a CE publication, the commander shall obtain a legal coordination.

5. CE publications may carry paid and nonpaid advertising of the products and services of nonappropriated fund activities and commissaries, if allowed by DoD and Military Service regulations. (See DoD Instruction 1015.2)

6. The Military Departments will coordinate a standard set or ratios of advertising-to-editorial copy for multiples of pages for run of the publication advertising in CE publications that will be included in all DoD Component regulations supplementing this part. The recommended annual average is a ratio of 60/40. Inserts and advertising supplements will not count in the total ad-to-copy ratio; However, the commander may prohibit the distribution of supplemental advertising deemed excessive.

7. Bingo games and lotteries conducted by a commercial organization whose primary business is conducting lotteries may not be advertised in CE publications. Non-lottery activities (such as dining at a restaurant or attending a musical performance) of a commercial organization whose primary business is conducting lotteries may be advertised in CE publications. Exceptions are allowed for authorized State lotteries, lotteries conducted by a not-for-profit organization or a governmental organization, or conducted as a promotional activity by a commercial organization and clearly occasional and ancillary to the primary business of that organization. An exception also pertains to any gaming conducted by an Indian tribe under 25 U.S.C. 2720. See section D. of appendix C to this part.
