
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### CE guides and maps.

H.

1. The name of the publication may include the name and emblem of the command or installation.

2. At the discretion of the commander, an installation telephone directory may be included as a section of a CE guide. The telephone section shall be part of the guide contract specifications. Separate contracts for CE telephone directories are not authorized. Over-run printing of the telephone directory/yellow pages section of the installation guide is authorized. The number of guides with integral telephone directories and the number of over-run copies of the telephone directory/yellow pages will be clearly specified in the single guide contract. Required communication security information shall be printed on the first page of the telephone section and not on the cover of the guide. The cover of the guide may notify users that the publication contains the telephone directory.

3. CE contracts for guides and maps shall establish firm delivery dates and shall contain provisions to ensure distribution is controlled by the command. Delivery dates may vary for guides and maps to make them more attractive to advertisers. The contract provisions shall specify delivery dates.
