
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### Contracting process.

2.Whether a first time initiative to establish a CE publication or a recompetition of an existing CE contract, the process must start with advance planning as to the nature of the command's requirements, the contracting strategy, and the market of potential advertisers and competitors for the job. The CE contract solicitation and the contract itself must contain a statement of work that describes in legally sufficient detail the Government's requirements and the conditions and restrictions under which the contractor will perform. The cognizant contracting office for the CE contracting action shall be the contracting office which normally provides contracting support to the command for service contracts and other procurements of a general nature which are above the simplified small purchase threshold. The contracting officer shall combine the statement of work with appropriate contractual terms and conditions, using 48 CFR chapter I and II as guides, although CE contracts are not subject to the FAR or DFARS, because they do not involve the expenditure of appropriated funds. The resulting solicitation and contract shall completely identify the rights and obligations of both parties. Proposals shall be solicited from all known commercial publishers who could potentially become the CE contractor. Upon evaluation of the competing proposals by the Source Selection Advisory Committee (SSAC) and selection of a winner by the selecting official, the CE contract shall be awarded by the contracting officer. The CE contract shall not require the contractor to pay money to the command or to provide goods, services, or other consideration not directly related to the CE publication. In the event that only one offer is received, the SSAC may recommend to the selecting official that no award be made or that the contracting officer enter into negotiations with the sole offeror to obtain the best possible service and product for the Government.
