
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### Statement of Work (SOW).

3.The SOW should be written to have the CE contractor perform as many of the publishing and distribution functions as practical to generate maximum savings to the Department of Defense. In so doing, care must be taken to balance Government requirements with a realistic view of the advertising revenue potential so as to achieve a contract that is commercially viable. The command's internal information needs shall be paramount. Some of the key issues that shall be addressed in the SOW follow:

a. A general description of the scope of the proposed contract including the name and nature of the publication involved; for example, weekly newspaper, monthly magazine, annual guide and installation map. Normally, guides and installation maps are included in the same contract.

b. A description of editorial content to be carried; e.g., news, features, supplements, and factual information, along with provisions addressing the possible inclusion of contractor-furnished advertising supplements for newspapers, provided any such supplement shall have the prior approval of the commander.

c. A description of the rules for the inclusion of advertising in the publication, substantially as follows: "The contractor agrees not to include in the publication any advertising of the following types: (1) paid political advertisements for a candidate, party, or which advocate a particular position on a political issue, including advertisements advocating a position on any proposed DoD policy or policy under review, or which advocate lobbying elected officials on a specific issue; (2) advertisements for any establishment declared "off limits" by the command; (3) advertisements that are contrary to law or to DoD or Military Service regulations or that in the government's opinion pose a danger or detriment to DoD personnel or their family members, or that interfere with the command or installation missions; (4) advertisements for bingo games or lotteries conducted by a commercial organization whose primary business is conducting lotteries; (5) (other restrictions deemed appropriate by the Service/command, if any.)" Additionally, the contract will contain provisions which: (1) specify the annual average advertising-to-editorial ratio for newspapers and magazines; (2) state that the commander's representative shall have the authority to specify newspaper advertising layout when required to enhance communication's effectiveness of the publication; and (3) which requires the contractor to notify advertisers of the requirements in ยง 247.4(i) and ยง 247.4(j).

d. A provision substantially as follows: "The contractor agrees not to enter into any exclusive advertising agreement with any firm, broker, or individual for the purpose of selling advertising associated with this contract."

e. A description of the CE contractor's responsibilities for distribution of the publication. This provision should address such matters as contractor furnishing of news racks along with contractor responsibility for maintenance of these racks.

f. A description of contractor-owned and/or contractor-furnished equipment such as text editing, copy terminals, and modems determined to be required to coordinate layout and ensure that the preparation of editorial material is performed in such a way as to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the publication process.

g. A description of contractor-furnished editorial support services determined to be required. Such description must be in terms of the end product required; e.g., photography service and/or writer/reporter services, and not as a requirement to make available certain contractor personnel. In day-to-day performance and administration of the CE contract, contractor personnel performing such support services shall not be treated in any way as though they are Government employees.

h. A provision that the use, where economically feasible, of recycled paper for internal products will be a consideration for awarding the contract, as stated in ยง 247.6 (e).

i. SOW's and RFP's for CE newspapers shall specify standard newsprint, recyclable, subject to requirements of applicable laws and regulations.

j. For CE magazines, a provision requiring the contractor to provide a bulk number of copies of each printing to the Government Printing Office (GPO) for distribution to Federal Depository Libraries. The number of copies to be provided will be determined on the number of libraries desiring to subscribe to the publication. The number could be a maximum of 1,400, but has historically averaged approximately 500 to 600 copies for military magazines. The contractor would be required to contact GPO to initiate this procedure at (202) 512-1071.
