
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### SSAC.

8.The commander shall appoint an SSAC. The committee shall participate in the development of the Source Selection Plan (SSP) before the solicitation of proposals, evaluate proposals, and recommend a source to the selecting official. Since cost is not a factor in the evaluation, award will be based on technical proposals, the offeror's experience and/or qualifications, and past performance.

a. The SSAC shall consist of a minimum of five voting members: a chairperson, who shall be a senior member of the command; senior representatives from public affairs and printing; and a minimum of two other functional specialists with skills relevant to the selection process. Each SSAC shall have non-voting legal and contracting advisors to assist in the selection process.

b. In arriving at its recommendations, the SSAC shall follow the SSP and avail itself of all relevant information, including the proposals submitted, independently derived data regarding offerors' performance records, the results of on-site surveys of offerors' facilities, where feasible, and in appropriate cases, personal presentations by offerors.

c. The work of the SSAC must be coordinated with the contracting officer to ensure that the process is objective and fair. All communications between the offerors and the Government shall be through the contracting officer. No member of the SSAC or the selecting official shall communicate directly with any offeror regarding the source selection.

d. In cases where a losing competitor requests a debriefing from the contracting officer, members of the SSAC may be called upon to participate so as to give the losing competitor the most thorough explanation practical as to why its proposal was not successful. No information regarding competitors' proposals shall be discussed with the unsuccessful offerors during debriefings, discussions, or negotiations.
