
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### Proposal requirements.

b.This provision of the solicitation must describe the specific and general types of information necessary to be submitted as part of the proposal to be evaluated. Offerors shall be notified that unnecessarily elaborate proposals are not desired.

1. The objectives of this plan are:

a. To ensure an impartial, equitable, and thorough evaluation of all offerors' proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria presented in the request for proposals (RFP).

b. To ensure that the contracting officer is provided technical evaluation findings of the SSAC in such a manner that selection of the offer most advantageous to the Government is ensured.

c. To document clearly and thoroughly all aspects of the evaluation and decision process to provide effective debriefings to unsuccessful offerors, to respond to legal challenges to the selection, and to ensure adherence to evaluation criteria.

2. This plan will be used to select a CE contractor for publication of the ____________________ newspaper (CE guide, magazine, or installation map) and will:

a. Give each SSAC member a clear understanding of his or her responsibilities as well as a complete overview of the evaluation process.

b. Establish a well-balanced evaluation structure, equitable and uniform scoring procedures, and a thorough and accurate appraisal of all considerations pertinent to the negotiated contracting process.

c. Provide the selecting official with meaningful findings that are clearly presented and founded on the collective, independent judgment of technical and managerial experts.

d. Ensure identification and selection of a contractor whose final proposal offers optimum satisfaction of the Government's technical and managerial requirements as expressed in the RFP.

e. Serve as part of the official record for the evaluation process.

1. The SSAC will consist of the Chairperson and a minimum of four other voting committee members plus the non-voting advisors to the SSAC.

2. The SSAC committee members are:

1. Selecting Official:

a. Approves the SSP.

b. Reviews the evaluation and findings of the SSAC.

c. Considers the SSAC's recommendation of award.

d. Selects the successful offeror.

2. Chairperson of the Source Selection Advisory Committee (C/SSAC):

a. Reviews the SSP.

b. Approves membership of the SSAC.

c. Analyzes the evaluation and findings of the SSAC and applies weights to the evaluation results.

d. Approves the SSAC report for submission to the selecting official.

3. Contracting Officer:

a. Is responsible for the proper and efficient conduct of the entire source selection process encompassing solicitation, evaluation, selection, and contract award.

b. Provides SSAC and the selecting official with guidance and instructions to conduct the evaluation and selection process.

c. Receives proposals submitted and makes them available to the SSAC, taking necessary precautions to ensure against premature or unauthorized disclosure of source selection information.

4. SSAC members shall:

a. Familiarize themselves with the RFP and SSP.

b. Provide a fair and impartial review and evaluation of each proposal against the solicitation requirements and evaluation criteria.

c. Provide written documentation substantiating their evaluations to include strengths, weaknesses, and any deficiencies of each proposal.

5. Legal advisor:

a. Reviews RFP and SSP for form and legality.

b. Advises the SSAC members of their duties and responsibilities, regarding procurement integrity issues and confidentiality requirements.

c. Participate in SSAC meetings and provide legal advice as required.

d. Provides legal review of all documents supporting the selection decision to ensure legal sufficiency and consistency with the evaluation criteria in the RFP and SSP.

e. Advises the selecting official on the legality of the selection decision.
