
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 247 - CE Publications
####### Safeguarding data.

3.The sensitivity of the proceedings and documentation require stringent and special safeguards throughout the evaluation process:

a. Inadvertent release of information could be a source of considerable misunderstanding and embarrassment to the Government. It is imperative, therefore, for all members of the SSAC to avoid any unauthorized disclosures of information pertaining to this evaluation. Evaluation participants will observe the following rules:

(1) All offeror and evaluation materials will be secured when not in use (i.e., during breaks, lunch, and at the end of the day).

(2) All attempted communications by offeror's representatives shall be directed to the contracting officer. No communications between members of the SSAC or the selecting official and offerors regarding the contract award or evaluation is permitted except when called upon under the provisions of paragraph J.8.d, of appendix B to this part.

(3) Neither SSAC members or the selecting official shall disclose anything pertaining to the source selection process to any offeror except as authorized by the contracting officer.

(4) Neither SSAC members or the selecting official shall discuss the substantive issues of the evaluation with any unauthorized individual, even after award of the contract.
