
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 247 - DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES AND CIVILIAN ENTERPRISE PUBLICATIONS
###### Appendix C to Part 247 - Mailing of DoD Newspapers, Magazines, CE Guides, and Installation Maps; Sales and Distribution of Non-DoD Publications
####### Use of appropriated fund postage.

C.

1. DoD appropriated fund postage shall be used only for:

a. Mailing copies to satisfy mandatory distribution requirements.

b. Mailing copies to other public affairs offices for administrative purposes.

c. Mailing copies to headquarters in the chain of command.

d. Bulk mailings of DoD newspapers and magazines to subordinate units for distribution to members of the units.

e. Mailing information copies to other U.S. Government Agencies, Members of Congress, libraries, hospitals, schools, and depositories.

f. Mailing of an individual copy of a DoD newspaper, magazine, or CE publication in response to an unsolicited request from a private person, firm, or organization, if such response is in the best interest of the DoD Component or its subordinate levels of command.

g. Mailing copies of DoD newspapers, magazines, guides, or installation maps to incoming DoD personnel and their families to orient them to their new command, installation, and community.

2. DoD appropriated fund postage shall not be used for mailing:

a. To the general readership of DoD newspapers, magazines, guides, and installation maps, unless specifically excepted in this part.

b. By a CE publisher.

c. CE publications other than newspapers and magazines in bulk. (See paragraph C.1.d. of this section).

3. Generally, DoD newspapers, magazines, and CE publications shall be mailed as second class Requester Publication Rate, third-class bulk, or third- or fourth-class mail.
