
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 250 - WITHHOLDING OF UNCLASSIFIED TECHNICAL DATA FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
###### ยง 250.3 Definitions.
####### Qualified U.S. contractor.

(a)A private individual or enterprise (hereinafter described as a "U.S. contractor") that, in accordance with procedures established by the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, certifies, as a condition of obtaining export-controlled technical data subject to this Directive from the Department of Defense, that:

(1) The individual who will act as recipient of the export-controlled technical data on behalf of the U.S. contractor is a U.S. citizen or a person admitted lawfully into the United States for permanent residence and is located in the United States.

(2) Such data are needed to bid or perform on a contract with the Department of Defense, or other U.S. Government agency, or for other legitimate business purposesin which the U.S. contractor is engaged, or plans to engage. The purpose for which the data are needed shall be described sufficiently in such certification to permit an evaluation of whether subsequent requests for data, pursuant to ยง 250.5(d)(2) are related properly to such business purpose.

(3) The U.S. contractor acknowledges its responsibilities under U.S. export control laws and regulations (including the obligation, under certain circumstances, to obtain an export license prior to the release of technical data within the United States) and agrees that it will not disseminate any export-controlled technical data subject to this part in a manner that would violate applicable export control laws and regulations.

(4) The U.S. contractor also agrees that, unless dissemination is permitted by ยง 250.5(h), it will not provide access to export-controlled technical data subject to this part to persons other than its employees or persons acting on its behalf, without the permission of the DoD Component that provided the technical data.

(5) To the best of its knowledge and belief, the U.S. contractor knows of no person employed by it, or acting on its behalf, who will have access to such data, who is debarred, suspended, or otherwise ineligible from performing on U.S. Government contracts; or has violated U.S. export control laws or a certification previously made to the Department of Defense under the provisions of this part.

(6) The U.S. contractor itself is not debarred, suspended, or otherwise determined ineligible by any agency of the U.S. Government to perform on U.S. Government contracts, has not been convicted of export control law violations, and has not been disqualified under the provisions of this part. When the certifications required by paragraphs (a) (5) and (6) of this section, cannot be made truthfully, the U.S. contractor may request the certification be accepted based on its description of extenuating circumstances.
