
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 252 - PROFESSIONAL U.S. SCOUTING ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS AT U.S. MILITARY INSTALLATIONS OVERSEAS
###### ยง 252.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) oversees development and implementation of this part.

(b) The DoD Component heads implement this part and comply with its provisions.

(c) In addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (b) of this section and acting as the DoD Executive Agent for DoD support to the BSA and GSUSA local councils and organizations in areas outside of the United States in accordance with 32 CFR part 212, the Secretary of the Army:

(1) Makes policy determinations in coordination with the other Military Department Secretaries regarding topics including, but not limited to, support that:

(i) DoD installation commanders are authorized to provide to the scouting program and personnel.

(ii) The scouting organization provides to DoD.

(2) Ensures accountability for appropriated fund (APF) and non-appropriated fund (NAF) assets used in the support of qualified scouting organizations.

(3) Provides input for and works with the scouting organizations in establishing the extent and scope of the annual scouting programs in support of DoD personnel and their families within the parameters established in this part and available resources.

(4) Ensures that the cost of the support provided is shared by each of the Military Services in proportion to benefits derived by their members from scouting programs overseas.
