
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 252 - PROFESSIONAL U.S. SCOUTING ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS AT U.S. MILITARY INSTALLATIONS OVERSEAS
###### ยง 252.6 Procedures.
####### General guidance.

(a)(1) Support provided by DoD and services provided by qualified scouting organizations is documented in a written agreement and signed by the appropriate regional combatant commander or designee. Installation-specific support and services are documented in a written agreement and signed by the installation commander or designee. This agreement replaces the need for qualified scouting organizations to submit individual articles of incorporation, written constitutions, charters, or articles of agreement to gain approval from the installation commander to operate on the installation as required by 32 CFR part 212.

(2) Overseas installation commanders may authorize DoD support for qualified scouting organizations outside the United States when:

(i) Support is permitted under international agreements with the host nation, if applicable.

(ii) Support is permitted pursuant to law and DoD issuances.

(iii) Such support is within the capabilities of their respective installations.

(iv) Providing such support will not impede fulfillment of the military mission.

(3) Committees composed of representatives of the Military Services will be formed to review annual qualified scouting organization budget requirements.

(4) Overseas scouting committees will provide the overseas scouting organizations with information on the scouting requirements of DoD personnel and will monitor and evaluate the scouting organizations' efforts to satisfy those requirements.

(5) Funds raised by the scouting organizations, as a non-Federal entity, cannot be commingled with NAF funds and will be made available for annual audits.

(6) Employees of a qualified scouting organization are not considered to be U.S. Government employees, or employees of an instrumentality of the United States for the purpose of benefits or entitlements.

(i) APF is not used to reimburse their salaries and benefits.

(ii) They are not entitled to participate in the NAF retirement fund.

(iii) Serving in those positions does not constitute NAF employment credit or produce rehire priority.

(7) These organizations generally are not covered under the terms of United States' Status of Forces or other relevant agreements with host nations.

(i) Questions regarding whether they are covered under such agreements should be referred to the legal office servicing the applicable command. Applicability of any relevant agreements would be addressed with the host nation only by the applicable command, and not the organization.

(ii) To the extent the organization is not covered under any relevant agreement, host nation laws apply. In all cases, the host nation will determine the scope and extent of the applicability of host nation laws to these employees.
