
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 252 - PROFESSIONAL U.S. SCOUTING ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS AT U.S. MILITARY INSTALLATIONS OVERSEAS
###### ยง 252.6 Procedures.
####### Funding guidance.,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101515p.pdf

(b)(1) Any APF and NAF support provided will be programmed and approved on an annual basis by the DoD Components. NAF support is authorized for youth activities programs in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.15, "Establishment, Management, and Control of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and Financial Management of Supporting Resources" (available at) and for qualified scouting organizations in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(2) APF may be used in conjunction with overseas scouting organizations. The following services may be provided on a non-reimbursable basis:

(i) Transportation of executive personnel (to include household goods and baggage) of qualified scouting organizations:

(A) When on invitational travel orders.

(B) To and from overseas assignments.

(C) While providing scouting support to DoD personnel and their families. Transportation of supplies of qualified scouting organizations necessary to provide such support may also be provided.

(ii) Office space where regular meetings can be conducted, and space for recreational activities.

(iii) Warehousing.

(iv) Utilities.

(v) Means of communication.

(3) DoD may provide the following additional support to scouting executives assigned overseas:
