
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.3 Definitions.
######## Hazardous property (HP).

(1) A composite term used to describe DoD excess property, surplus property, and FEPP, which may be hazardous to human health, human safety, or the environment. Various Federal, State, and local safety and environmental laws regulate the use and disposal of hazardous property.

(2) In more technical terms, HP includes property having one or more of the following characteristics:

(i) Has a flashpoint below 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius) closed cup, or is subject to spontaneous heating or is subject to polymerization with release of large amounts of energy when handled, stored, and shipped without adequate control.

(ii) Has a threshold limit value equal to or below 1,000 parts per million (ppm) for gases and vapors, below 500 milligram per cubic meter (mg/m) for fumes, and equal to or less than 30 million particles per cubic foot (mppcf) or 10 mg/mfor dusts (less than or equal to 2.0 fibers/cc greater than 5 micrometers in length for fibrous materials).

(iii) Causes 50 percent fatalities to test animals when a single oral dose is administered in doses of less than 500 mg per kilogram of test animal weight.

(iv) Is a flammable solid as defined in 49 CFR 173.124, or is an oxidizer as defined in 49 CFR 173.127, or is a strong oxidizing or reducing agent with a half cell potential in acid solution of greater than +1.0 volt as specified in Latimer's table on the oxidation-reduction potential.

(v) Causes first-degree burns to skin in short-time exposure, or is systematically toxic by skin contact.

(vi) May produce dust, gases, fumes, vapors, mists, or smoke with one or more of the above characteristics in the course of normal operations.

(vii) Produces sensitizing or irritating effects.

(viii) Is radioactive.

(ix) Has special characteristics which, in the opinion of the manufacturer, could cause harm to personnel if used or stored improperly.

(x) Is hazardous in accordance with Occupational Health and Safety Administration, 29 CFR part 1910.

(xi) Is hazardous in accordance with 29 CFR part 1910.

(xii) Is regulated by the EPA in accordance with 40 CFR parts 260 through 280.
