
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.5 Responsibilities.
####### http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/512402p.pdf

(2) Ensure the development, implementation and administration of a system of services for infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families and children with disabilities; and provide compliance oversight for early intervention and special education in accordance with DoD Directive 5124.02, "Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R))" (available at); 20 U.S.C. 921-932; the applicable statutory provision of the IDEA; 10 U.S.C. 2164; DoD Directive 1342.20 and implementing guidance authorized by this part.

(3) Oversee DoD Component collaboration on the provision of services and transition support to infants, toddlers, and school-aged children.

(4) Develop a DoD-wide comprehensive child-find system to identify eligible infants, toddlers, and children ages birth through 21 years, inclusive, who may require early intervention or special education services, in accordance with the IDEA.

(5) Develop and provide guidance as necessary for the delivery of services for children with disabilities and for the protection of procedural rights consistent with the IDEA and implementing guidance authorized by this part.

(6) Coordinate with the Secretaries of the Military Departments to ensure that their responsibilities, as detailed in paragraph (f) of this section, are completed.

(7) Direct the development and implementation of a comprehensive system of personnel development (CSPD) for personnel serving infants and toddlers with disabilities and children with disabilities, and their families.

(8) Develop requirements and procedures for compiling and reporting data on the number of eligible infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families in need of EIS and children in need of special education and related services.
