
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.5 Responsibilities.

(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT&L), and in accordance with DoD Directive 5134.12:

(1) Develops DoD materiel disposition policies, including policies for FEPP.

(2) Oversees the effective implementation of the DoD materiel disposition program.

(3) Approves policy changes as appropriate to support contingency operations.

(4) Approves national organizations for special interest consideration as SEAs, and approve categories of property considered appropriate, usable, and necessary for transfer to SEAs.

(b) The Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)), and in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) Provides agency-level command and control and administers the worldwide Defense Materiel Disposition Program.

(2) Implements guidance issued by the ASD(L&MR) or other organizational elements of the OSD and establishes system concepts and requirements, resource management, program guidance, budgeting and funding, training and career development, management review and analysis, internal control measures, and crime prevention for the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.

(3) Chairs the Disposal Policy Working Group (DPWG).

(4) Provides direction to the DLA Disposition Services on implementing the worldwide defense materiel disposition program.
