
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.5 Responsibilities.
######## whs/directives/corres/html/410039m.html

(5) Provides direction to the DLA inventory control points (ICPs) on the cataloging of items in the Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) as outlined in DoD 4100.39-M, "Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) Procedures Manual-Glossary and Volumes 1-16" (available at). This is done to prevent the unauthorized disposition or release of items within DoD, other federal civilian agencies, or release into commerce.

(6) Promotes maximum reuse of FEPP, excess, and surplus property. Pursues all possible avenues to sponsor or endorse reuse of excess DoD property and preclude unnecessary purchases.

(7) Directs the DLA Disposition Services communications with the DoD Components regarding changes in service delivery processes or plans that will affect disposal support provided. In overseas locations, these communications will include geographic Combatant Commanders, U.S. Chiefs of Mission, and the in-country security assistance offices.

(8) Accommodates contingency operation requirements. Directs the DLA support team to determine any needed deviations from standard disposal processing guidance and communicates approved temporary changes to the Military Departments and DLA Disposition Services.

(9) Ensures maximum compatibility between documentation, procedures, codes, and formats used in materiel disposition systems and the Military Departments' supply systems.

(10) Programs, budgets, funds, accounts, allocates and controls personnel, spaces, and other resources for its respective activities.

(11) Annually provides to GSA a report of property transferred to non-federal recipients in accordance with 41 CFR 102-36.295.

(12) Assumes the worldwide disposal of all DoD HP except for those categories specifically designated to remain the responsibility of the Military Department or Defense Agency as described in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.
