
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.5 Responsibilities.
######## e.g.

(13) Ensures property disposal training courses are available (, at DLA Training Center) for all personnel associated with the disposal program.

(14) Ensures DLA Disposition Services follows the DoD disposal hierarchy with landfill disposal as a last resort.

(c) The DoD Components Heads:

(1) Recommend Defense Materiel Disposition Program policy changes to the ASD(L&MR).

(2) Recommend Defense Materiel Disposition Program procedural changes to the Director, DLA, and provide information copies to the ASD(L&MR).

(3) Assist the Director, DLA, upon request, to resolve matters of mutual concern.

(4) Treat the disposal of DoD property as an integral part of DoD Supply Chain Management; ensure that disposal actions and costs are a part of each stage of the supply chain management of items and that disposal of property is a planned event at all levels of their organizations.

(5) Provide the Director, DLA, with mutually agreed-upon data necessary to administer the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.

(6) Participate in the DoD PMRP and promote maximum reutilization of FEPP, excess, and surplus property and fine precious metals for internal use or as GFM.

(7) Nominate to the ASD(L&MR) national organizations for special interest consideration as SEAs; approve schools (non-national organizations) as SEAs; and recommend to the ASD(L&MR) categories of property considered appropriate, usable, and necessary for transfer to SEAs.

(8) Provide administrative and logistics support, including appropriate facilities, for the operations of tenant and related off-site DLA Disposition Services field activities under inter-Service support agreements (ISSAs).
