
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.6 Procedures.
######## Foreign liaison.,http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/523020p.pdf

(d)(1) Authority for granting visits by foreign nationals representing foreign governments rests with the International Programs Division (J-347) at DLA. Prospective official foreign visitors should submit requests 30 days in advance through their embassy in accordance with procedures in DoD Directive 5230.20, "Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals" (available at). These requests may require a security clearance from the host Military Department. DLA processes the requests, and will provide written authority to primary-level field activity commanders or DLA Disposition Services site chiefs. Unclassified visits by foreign nationals can be approved for inspections prior to acquiring property through security assistance programs or other programs authorized by statute.

(2) A commander of a DoD activity may authorize foreign nationals and representatives of foreign governments or international organizations to visit a DLA Disposition Services site, except for those foreign nationals and representatives from foreign countries designated as restricted parties in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.

(3) Visits by foreign nationals for public sales will be at the discretion of the host installation commander in accordance with U.S. export control laws and regulations, the ITAR in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.

(4) All requests for unclassified information, not previously approved for public release will be referred to the appropriate public affairs office. This includes requests submitted by representatives of foreign governments or representatives of international organizations.

(5) Requests from foreign nationals or representatives from foreign governments of restricted parties will be referred to the appropriate security office.

(6) Release of MLI technical data or CCL items technology will be in accordance with DoD 4100.39-M, DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, 10 U.S.C. 2576, 22 CFR parts 120 to 130, and 15 CFR parts 730 to 774, DoD Instruction 2040.02, and DoD Instruction 2030.08.
