
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.6 Procedures.
######## e.g.

(ii) Provide comprehensive disposal services supporting customer-unique needs based on mutually developed service agreements. DLA Disposition Services, along with DLA, will work with customers of all levels,, generators, major commands, and Services, to define expectations and establish service delivery strategies.

(4) Use the most appropriate sales method to obtain optimum return on investment for all DoD surplus property sold. Respond to inquiries, process disputes, protests, and claims pertaining to disposable property sales.

(5) Implement quality control programs for the Defense Materiel Disposition Program to assure optimum reutilization; proper DEMIL; use of environmentally sound disposal practices; implementation of TSC measures for MLI and CCL items.

(6) Implement TSC in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08 for USML and CCL items and comply with applicable export control regulations and laws.

(7) Monitor DLA Disposition Services site PMRP operations and provide support to DoD Components and participating federal agencies. Manage the recovery operations of the PMRP.

(8) Prepare and distribute reports for disposition.

(9) Serve as the office of primary responsibility for environmentally regulated and HP as detailed in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.

(10) Comply with and implement the provisions of DoD Instruction 4160.28, DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, and DoD Instruction 2030.08 in the execution of DLA Disposition Services worldwide. Coordinate procedural waivers or deviations for approval by the DoD DEMIL Program Office or DoD TSC Office in DLA-HQ (J-334). Forward policy waivers or deviations from the DoD DEMIL Program Office or DoD TSC Office to the USD(AT&L) or USD(P) respectively for approval.

(11) Monitor property accountability and approve adjustments or corrections to property accounts for assigned DLA Disposition Services sites.
