
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Identification and screening.

(2)(i) Each Military Department shall develop and implement in its assigned geographic area a comprehensive child-find and public awareness program, pursuant to the IDEA and this part, that focuses on the early identification of infants and toddlers who are eligible to receive EIS pursuant to this part.

(ii) The military treatment facility (MTF) and Family Advocacy Program must be informed that EDIS will accept direct referrals for infants and toddlers from birth up to 3 years of age who are:

(A) Involved in a substantiated case of child abuse or neglect; or

(B) Identified as affected by illegal substance abuse or withdrawal symptoms resulting from prenatal drug exposure.

(iii) All other DoD Components will refer infants and toddlers with suspected disabilities to EDIS in collaboration with the parents.

(iv) Upon receipt of a referral, EDIS shall appoint a service coordinator.

(v) All infants and toddlers referred to the EDIS for EIS shall be screened to determine the appropriateness of the referral and to guide the assessment process.

(A) Screening does not constitute a full evaluation. At a minimum, screening shall include a review of the medical and developmental history of the referred infant or toddler through a parent interview and a review of medical records.

(B) If screening is conducted prior to the referral, or if there is a substantial or obvious biological risk, a screening following the referral may not be necessary.

(C) If EDIS determines that an evaluation is not necessary based on screening results, EDIS will provide written notice to the parents in accordance with paragraph (a)(9) of this section.
