
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.6 Procedures.
######## http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/510522p.pdf

(12) Comply with implementing guidance relative to relationships with Combatant Commanders as prescribed in DoD Directive 5105.22, "Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)" (available at).

(13) Support disposal of Military Assistance Program property and other foreign-owned property in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M and ยง 273.7 of this subpart.

(14) Provide reutilization, donation, and marketing assistance and disposal service to customers.

(15) Maintain liaison with generating activities to determine most efficient method of acceptance (receipt in place vs. physical turn-in), determine mutually agreed-upon schedules for property receipts, and execute memorandums of understanding (MOUs) for receipt-in-place transactions.

(16) Process excess property, surplus property, FEPP, nonsalable materiel, and other authorized turn-ins from generating activities.

(17) Inspect and accumulate physical receipts of property; verify identity, by UII or IUID when applicable, and quantity. DLA Disposition Services sites need not verify quantities where units of issues are: lot, assortment, board foot, cubic foot, foot, inch, length, meter, square foot, square yard, and yard. These units of issue are impractical and economically unfeasible.

(18) Establish and maintain visibility of accountable property records for excess, surplus, and FEPP property.

(19) Provide or arrange adequate covered storage to protect received property from the elements, maintain its value and condition, and reduce handling. Store property to prevent contamination or mixing, ensure proper identification and segregation (bins or areas are prominently marked, labeled, tagged, or otherwise readily identifiable with the property locator record), and allow inspection.

(20) Fence or otherwise protect the disposal yard to ensure materiel is safeguarded against theft or pilferage. DLA Disposition Services are generally a tenant operation on a DoD installation that generates disposal property. The DLA Disposition Services must comply with the security matters identified in ISSAs established with the DoD Component regarding security regulations.

(21) Provide HW storage, as appropriate. Ensure HW storage facilities meet all applicable environmental standards and requirements, including those specified in 40 CFR part 264.

(22) Prepare ISSAs. Coordinate with the local installation to resolve matters of mutual concern.

(23) Provide information and assistance to those who are processing precious metals-bearing property into DoD PMRP.

(24) Ensure periodic inventories are conducted, accountable property records updated, and required inventory adjustment documents are prepared and processed.

(25) Implement reutilization, transfer, or donation (RTD) of surplus property. Promote maximum RTD of FEPP, excess property, and surplus property. Process authorized RTD requests. Ensure accountable records are updated in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.64.

(26) Provide assistance to all authorized screeners, donees, and other interested persons.

(27) Facilitate the sale of property not reutilized, transferred, or donated, and appropriate for release into commerce.

(28) Deposit sale proceeds and other funds received, including storage charges and transfer monies to the appropriate accounts.

(29) Manage the DoD scrap recycling program (including precious metals recovery) and related financial records.

(30) Assist host installations in executing their QRPs in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2577 and deliver sales revenues from eligible personal property to defray the costs incurred by operating and improving recycling programs, financing pollution abatement and environmental programs, funding energy conservation improvements, improving occupational, safety, and health programs, and funding morale, welfare, and recreation programs.

(31) Ensure DEMIL, including small arms serialized weapons and serialized parts is accomplished in accordance with DoD Instruction 4160.28 and DLA Disposition Services internal direction. Provide shipment locations and instructions to generating activities, as requested.
