
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## Property and scrap accepted and excluded.

(b)(1) DLA Disposition Services must accept and dispose of all authorized DoD-generated excess, surplus, FEPP, scrap, and other personal property with the exclusions in paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Property not disposed of through RTDS will be processed for disposal under an HW contract, except as specified elsewhere. For example, HP will be processed on HW disposal service contracts. Other property will be downgraded to scrap, demilitarized, processed for A/D, or disposed of through a DLA Disposition Services service contract.

(3) DLA Disposition Services sites minimize processing delays as much as possible. In the event a site is unable to physically accept the property at the desired time and location due to workload, generating activities may retain the property for processing in-place, seek another DLA Disposition Services site, or hold the property until the DLA Disposition Services site is able to receive the property.

(4) DLA Disposition Services sites:

(i) Accept and process nonsalable materiel that has no reutilization, transfer, donation, or sale value but is not otherwise restricted from disposal by U.S. law or Federal or military regulations.

(ii) Ensure that disposition is by the most economical and practical method; for example, donation in lieu of A/D or through a service contract that meets minimum legal requirements for disposal of the specific types of property.

(5) DLA Disposition Services sites may not accept (either physically or on its account) and no reutilization or sale service will be given for:

(i) Radioactive waste, items, devices, or materiel (all materiel that is radioactive).

(ii) Property designated for disposal by the Military Departments as identified in DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.

(iii) Classified material, except that which is addressed by paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section.

(iv) Nuclear weapons-related materiel.

(v) Classified and unclassified information systems security material (cryptological (CRYPTO) or communications security (COMSEC)). Disposal of FSCs 5810 and 5811 are the responsibility of the Military Departments and may not be transferred to DLA Disposition Services in their original configuration as specified in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3.

(vi) Property containing information covered by 5 U.S.C. 552a, also known as the Privacy Act of 1974.

(6) DoD Components will manage the collection and disposal of installation refuse and trash. If refuse and trash, when properly segregated, possesses RTDS potential, disposition may be accomplished via DLA Disposition Services, recycling provisions of refuse collection contracts, in-house refuse operations, or QRPs as appropriate.

(7) The DLA Disposition Services site operating as a tenant on an installation will notify the host activity when unauthorized shipments are received at the DLA Disposition Services site (including off-site shipments) of radioactive items, classified material, nuclear weapons-related materiel, and classified and unclassified information systems security material (CRYPTO/COMSEC). The host activity will be responsible for retrieving and securing any radioactive items, classified items and unclassified information systems security material (CRYPTO/COMSEC) immediately upon request of the DLA Disposition Services site.

(8) DLA Disposition Services sites will not accept scrap accumulations that are contaminated or commingled with:

(i) MPPEH.

(ii) MLI that require DEMIL (DEMIL Codes C, D, E and F) and MLI that require mutilation (DEMIL Code B). MLI with DEMIL Code G and P are not authorized for acceptance by DLA Disposition Services in their original state.

(iii) CCL items that have not undergone mutilation to the point of scrap as defined in DoD Instruction 2030.08.

(iv) HP FSCs.

(9) Contaminated scrap should be turned in as HW.
