
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/formsprogram.htm.,http://www2.dla.mil/j-6/dlmso/elibrary/Manuals/DLM/V6/Volume6.pdf

(2) The generator will provide to the DLA Disposition Services site an original and three hard copies of a DD Form 1348-1A, "Issue Release/Receipt Document," or DD Form 1348-2, "Issue Release/Receipt Document with Address Label" (available at) The DTID must include a valid DoDAAC as authorized in Volume 6 of DLM 4000.25, "Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) Directory (Activity Address Code Sequence)" (available at). All further references to DD Form 1348-1A, which also include DD Form 1348-2, will be referred to in this subpart as a DTID. Table 1 of this section provides guidance on preparation of the DD Form 1348 series documents. For scrap transfers, see paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) Generating activities may use the DLA Disposition Services web-based program electronic turn-in document (ETID) for submitting the required information electronically. ETID accommodates generators that do not have service-unique automated capabilities. ETID access and guidance are located on the DLA Disposition Services Web site. Generating activities requiring ETID access must apply for a user ID and password.

(4) In addition to the data required by DLM 4000.25-1, the DTID must clearly indicate:
