
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## e.g.,

(iv) Due to national security concerns, the FSCs listed in Table 2 of this section that are clearly MLI or CCL items require a higher degree of documentation. When these items are not assigned an NSN, the DTID must include the appropriate FSC; the valid part number and manufacturer's name; nomenclature that accurately describes the item; the end item application; and a clear text statement explaining why the NSN is not included (locally purchased item, found on post, lost, abandoned, privately owned property). This information may be annotated directly on the DTID or securely attached to the DTID.

(v) The DTID for any property turned in by LSN without an assigned DEMIL code must include a required clear text DEMIL statement, based on information in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3. Generating activities may request assistance of a DLA Disposition Services site, DLA, or the integrated manager for the FSC to determine the appropriate statement. DLA Disposition Services sites will assist generating activities in developing the clear text DEMIL statement and assignment of the appropriate DEMIL code. If assistance is not requested or not used, DLA Disposition Services sites may reject the turn-in of materiel which does not meet established criteria.

(6) Scrap DTIDs will include:

(i) DI code.

(ii) Unit of issue (pounds or kilograms).

(iii) Quantity (total weight (estimated or actual)).

(iv) DTID number.

(v) Precious metals indicator code.

(vi) Disposal authority code.

(vii) Basic material content (Block 17).

(viii) Reimbursement data, if applicable.

(7) For HP documentation, see DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4.

(8) The generating activities will complete documentation for in-transit control of property (excluding scrap (SCC S)), waste, NAF, lost, abandoned, or unclaimed, privately owned, and FCA property) in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volume 3, for shipments or transfers to DLA Disposition Services sites of property with a total acquisition value of $800 or greater and all property designated as pilferable or sensitive identified by an NSN or part number. The ICS document tracks property from the time of release by generating activity (regardless whether the property is shipped to the DLA Disposition Services site or retained by the generating activity) until the DLA Disposition Services site accepts accountability. The generating activities will update the records to reflect the change in accountability and custody.

(9) DoD Components will identify defective items, parts, and components containing latent defects.
