
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## i.e.,

(2) Generating activities will schedule all transfers (receipt in-place or physical) through advanced notification (use of a listing or automated DTIDs.)

(3) Usable property will, to the extent possible, be transferred as individual line items with their assigned valid NSN and UII (when applicable). Exceptions include property turned in as generator batchlots, furniture turned in as a group on a "tally-in" form, and locally purchased property without an NSN.

(4) Scrap, properly identified with supply class by basic material content and segregated, must be transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site using a DTID.

(5) If the deficiency prohibits further DoD use, the materiel will remain in SCC Q, and owners will direct transfer of the materiel to DLA Disposition Services sites following the guidance in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. Improperly documented, unauthorized source, defective, non-repairable, and time-expired aviation CSI/FSCAP materiel that is not mutilated by the holding activity will be directed to the DLA Disposition Services site in SCC Q with management code S. All such materiel will be mutilated. The ICP/IMM should identify to the DLA Disposition Services any unique instructions for disposal requiring specific methods or information regarding hazardous material, waste, or property contained in the item. When transferring such aviation CSI/FSCAP to a DLA Disposition Services site, the generating activity DTID must clearly state in block 17 that the part is defective, non-reparable, time-expired, or otherwise deficient and that mutilation is required.

(6) Property capable of spilling or leaking may not be transferred to a DLA Disposition Services site in open, broken, or leaking containers. All property will be non-leaking and safe to handle.

(7) For physical transfers, generating activities will be responsible for movement of the property or scrap to the nearest DLA Disposition Services location.

(8) DEMIL instructions are to be provided by the ICP or IMM. DEMIL F items must have a valid and verifiable NSN. LSNs with DEMIL F are not valid. DLA Disposition Services sites will not accept DEMIL F property without the proper instructions.

(9) DTIDs that do not meet the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section will be rejected and returned to the Military Departments.
