
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## Receipt of property and scrap,During transfer.

(g)-(1)(i) DLA Disposition Services sites are responsible for ensuring proper receipt, classification, processing, safeguarding, storing, and subsequent shipping of all property and scrap. This includes property to be accounted for as items and properly segregated scrap and waste with RTDS value, and materiel destined for disposal.

(ii) DLA Disposition Services sites will assist, when requested, in tracing property when an in-transit control follow-up has been received by the generating or shipping activity.

(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites will maintain close liaison with generating activities to ensure:

(A) Informational guidance on disposal transfers is given to generating activities.

(B) A DLA Disposition Services site's receiving capability and the volume of property to be transferred is taken into consideration for turn-in scheduling. Property inspections will be performed in-place if more advantageous due to the characteristics of the property, as determined by DLA Disposition Services.

(C) Assistance is provided to generating activities, as needed, to assure proper segregation of scrap and HW material before transfer. If the weight generated, market conditions, or local trade practices warrant, further scrap segregation will be made.

(D) All property (except unsalable materiel that is precluded from sale by law), including scrap and refuse or trash with a RTDS value, is processed as set forth in this part and will not be disposed of by dumping in landfills. If the DLA Disposition Services site has knowledge of salable materiel being dumped in a sanitary fill, the DLA Disposition Services site chief will notify the installation commander regarding the matter.

(E) Property received is protected to prevent damage from unnecessary exposure to the elements. Property transferred as condemned may still be usable, and its preservation may benefit the Defense Materiel Disposal Program.
