
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## Conditional and accountable acceptance distinction.

(2)Conditional and accountable acceptances are separate actions.

(i) Conditional acceptance occurs when a generating activity representative accompanies a transfer. DLA Disposition Services sites will provide a conditional receipt copy at time of physical delivery. Conditional acceptance becomes official and final acceptance receipt unless property is officially rejected by the DLA Disposition Services site within 15 workdays.

(ii) Accountable acceptance becomes final when verification of accurate property description, valid condition code assignment, correct quantity, and UII (when applicable) is completed by the DLA Disposition Services site. Physical inspections will be conducted, as appropriate.

(iii) During the conditional acceptance processing, if the property is physically transferred to the DLA Disposition Services site and an inventory discrepancy surfaces, the DLA Disposition Services site will research and provide a report of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property in accordance with procedures in DoD 7000.14-R Volume 12, Chapter 7. If the property remains at the generating activity site for receipt-in-place and an inventory discrepancy surfaces, the generating activity will research and provide a report of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property in accordance with procedures in DoD 7000.14-R Volume 12, Chapter 7. The accountable organization will amend the accountable property records as appropriate upon completion of the property loss investigation.
