
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## Returning receipts.

(4)DLA Disposition Services sites will return one hard copy on physical transfers, including generator-prepared batchlots, if required by the generating activity. DLA Disposition Services will make return receipts available to generators via a web based document management system. Generating activities may access this system via the DLA Disposition Services Web site and search, view, and download copies of turn-in documentation. DLA Disposition Services personnel should work with generating activities to encourage the use of a web-based document management system and eliminate hard copy return receipts.

(i) For property physically received by a DLA Disposition Services site, generating activities will be provided a receipt copy upon delivery.

(A) These receipts are considered conditional acceptance of accountability, pending completion of DLA Disposition Services site inspection and verification of the turn-in. If no follow-up report is received by the generating activity within 15 workdays, the provisional copy becomes the official receipt document, and the DLA Disposition Services Site assumes full accountability.

(B) If the receipt is not recorded in a web based document management system within 30 days, the provisional copy becomes the official receipt copy and the DLA Disposition Services Site assumes full accountability.

(C) If a discrepancy is found, DLA Disposition Services sites may contact the generating activity and attempt resolution. If required, the guidance shown in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section will be used for inventory discrepancies.

(D) When acceptance is not possible, a reject notice will be provided to the generating activity within 7 workdays. Return receipts are available to generators via a web based document management system.

(ii) For turn-ins made by commercial carrier, parcel post, etc., DLA Disposition Services sites will provide receipt copies no later than 5 workdays after delivery. These receipts are considered conditional acceptance of accountability pending completion of DLA Disposition Services site inspection and verification of the turn-in. If a discrepancy is found, DLA Disposition Services sites may contact and attempt resolution. When acceptance is not possible, a reject notice will be provided to the generating activity within 7 workdays.
