
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## e.g.,

(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites may batchlot property requiring the same type of special processing,reimbursable property, same FSC.

(iv) DLA Disposition Services sites may batchlot clothing and textile products with infrared or spectral reflectance with a DEMIL code of "E," but the batchlots require a certification on the DTID (see Figure 1 of this section).

(v) DLA Disposition Services sites will exclude from batchlotting:

(A) Chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) property and clothing (FSG 83 and 84); lab equipment such as centrifuges, biological incubators, micromilling machines, biological safety cabinets and laboratory evaporators; (FSG 66), camouflage clothing and individual equipment.

(B) Low dollar property with high potential for RTDS.

(C) Property defined as a special case in Enclosure 3 of DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 that requires special receipt and handling requirements that cannot be met at time of receipt.

(D) DEMIL required items identified in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, DEMIL codes B, Q, and property in critical FSCs in DEMIL codes C, D, E, F, G, and P. Property in FSCs 5935, 5996, and 5999 will not be batchlotted regardless of DEMIL code.

(E) Property requiring inert certification.

(F) Small arms or light weapons.

(G) Lasers.
