
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## http://www.dla.mil/issuances/Documents_1/r4145.11.pdf

(J) Items with a CIIC. Items determined to be pilferable or sensitive in accordance with Volume 6 of DLM 4000.25 and DLA Regulation 4145.11/AR 740.7/Navy Supply System Command Instruction (NAVSUPINST) 4440.146C/Marine Corps Order (MCO) 4450.11, "Safeguarding of DLA Sensitive Inventory Items, Controlled Substances, and Pilferable Items of Supply" (available at).

(K) HP.

(L) Metalworking machinery and former industrial plant equipment.

(M) Grade 8 fasteners and machine bolts in FSCs 5305 and 5306. Do not batchlot these items if they appear on the SALD list.

(N) Property in SCC A with a total extended value, per DTID, of $50 or more, as shown in Table 3 of this section.

(vi) Notwithstanding the information in paragraph (g)(5)(v) of this section, RTD customers may order individual items from a batchlot. DLA Disposition Services sites will honor these requests. Otherwise, items will not be removed from batchlots.

(vii) DLA Disposition Services sites are responsible for ensuring official receipt copies are returned accessible to generating activities (electronically or hard copy). They must provide tracing assistance for any DTID receipt copy not received by the generating activity.
