
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/current/11a/Volume_11a.pdf

(i) Materiel with different fund citation appropriations may be combined in sale lots; however, DLA Disposition Services accountability systems will retain individual disbursement information to allow appropriate reimbursements to local or departmental accounts, as designated by DoD 7000.14-R, "Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs): Volume 11a, "Reimbursable Operations, Policy and Procedures"; Chapter 5, "Disposition of Proceeds from Department of Defense Sales of Surplus Personal Property", (available at).

(ii) Non-reimbursable scrap may be physically combined with other scrap when considered advantageous; however, accountability records will be maintained to substantiate pro-rating of the proceeds.

(5) Usable and scrap determination and accounting are calculated as follows:

(i) When property not requiring DEMIL is assigned SCCs F, G, or H, the DLA Disposition Services site may determine property has scrap value only and classify and process as "scrap upon receipt."

(ii) Personal property assigned other SCCs, which the DLA Disposition Services site determines to only have basic materiel content value, may be downgraded to scrap after the end-of-screening date (ESD) and completion of any required DEMIL.

(iii) DLA Disposition Services sites will minimize changing or challenging SCCs and downgrades upon receipt.

(iv) When an item has been offered on a competitive sale and no bid has been received, or bids received are less than the scrap value of the item, the property may be downgraded to scrap and re-offered for sale as scrap. This includes property returned to a DLA Disposition Services site from a joint commercial sales partner that has been confirmed as mis-described or as containing only basic material content value. Similar items received within a 12-month period that have a history of being nonsalable may be downgraded to scrap at ESD.

(v) When a DLA Disposition Services site determines obsolete printed materials have no RTD potential and only scrap market value, these items will be downgraded to scrap upon receipt.

(vi) When end items are turned in as scrap and are reclaimed or disassembled for their usable components, the DLA Disposition Services site's records will be adjusted to reflect the acquisition cost (estimated, if not known) of the components removed.

(6) Scrap accounting is calculated by weight.

(i) Estimated weight may be used for receiving scrap if scales are not available or if weighing is impractical. Disposition of scrap for sale or demanufacturing must be weighed to provide accurate accounting and reconciliation with the DLA Disposition Services accountable record.

(ii) The acceptable degree of accuracy of estimation is 25 percent for property processed by the ton, and 10 percent for property processed by the pound. Overages and shortages discovered on release of property that exceed allowable tolerances will be adjusted.

(iii) High value scrap must be weighed at the time of receipt.
