
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.7 Excess DoD property and scrap disposal processing.
######## Physical inventory accuracy.

(k)(1) DLA Disposition Services sites will conduct physical inventories. At a minimum, a sample inventory will be conducted at each DLA Disposition Services site annually. Inventory accuracy of at least 90 percent will be maintained for all usable property, except DEMIL required property, HP, and pilferable or sensitive property. Discrepancies will be corrected in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section. If sample inventories for usable property are less than 90 percent accurate, a wall-to-wall inventory will be conducted.

(2) Physical inventories for DEMIL required property, HP, and pilferable or sensitive property will be conducted at least annually. Inventory accuracy of 100 percent will be maintained. If less than 100 percent accuracy, DLA Disposition Services site will report the discrepancies in accordance with procedures in DoD 7000.14-R.

(3) Usable property remaining on the DLA Disposition Services site account in excess of 6 months will be inventoried on a monthly basis and certified.

(4) Inventory discrepancies will be researched as part of the inventory process and corrections documented as inventory adjustments.

(5) DLA Disposition Services will provide the DLA Disposition Services sites with direction for maintaining and reconciling scrap accumulations and accountable records. Reconciliation will be performed at least monthly.
