
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.8 Donations, loans, and exchanges.
######## e.g.,

(H) Property acquired with trust funds (social security trust funds).

(I) Records of the Federal Government.

(J) Vessels of 1,500 gross tons or more, excluding specified Naval combat vessels, which the Maritime Administration determines to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use (as defined in 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102).

(K) Items as may be specified from time to time by the GSA Office of Government-wide Policy.

(L) Property that requires reimbursement upon transfer (such as abandoned or other unclaimed property that is found on premises owned or leased by the Government).

(M) Hazardous waste.

(N) Other Hazardous property and hazardous materials not otherwise identified in the categories in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (M) of this section that is not serviceable, for example supply condition codes (SCCs) listed in DLM 4000.25-2 as SCC E for unserviceable (limited restoration) materiel, SCC F for unserviceable (reparable) materiel, and SCC G for unserviceable (incomplete) materiel, SCC H for unserviceable (condemned) materiel, SCC P for unserviceable (reclamation) materiel.

(ii) Certain items require special processing for donations (in accordance with the requirements in DoD 5105.38-M. DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 provides the procedures.
