
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.8 Donations, loans, and exchanges.
######## Customer removal of ordered property.

(10)(i) All transportation arrangements and costs are the responsibility of the SASP or designated donee. The DLA Disposition Services site may not act as agent packager or shipper. Until release, each holding activity is responsible for the care and handling of its property.

(ii) The SASP or designated donee will only pay for direct costs of care and handling incurred in the actual packing, crating, preparation for shipment, and loading. The price will be the actual or carefully estimated costs incurred by DoD traffic management activities for labor, material, or services used in donating the property.

(iii) Advance payment for care and handling costs will normally be required; however, State and local governmental units may be exempted from this requirement and authorized to make payment within 60 days from date of receipt of property. Advance payment may be required in any case where prompt payment after billing has been unsatisfactory.

(iv) Donees must schedule removal of property with the DLA Disposition Services site. Upon arrival, the individual must provide identification and must sign the DLA Disposition Services Visitor or Vehicle Register, indicating the purpose of the visit.

(v) The individual must provide an approved SF123 as authorization for removal.

(vi) DLA Disposition Services sites will release surplus property to authorized donees upon receipt of a properly completed and approved SF 123 or MRO.
