
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.8 Donations, loans, and exchanges.
######## Special donations (gifts), loans, and exchanges outside the FMR,Compliance.

(d)-(1)The DoD Components:

(i) Comply with the specific governing statute for the type of property and ensure the limitations of the governing statute are observed. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2572 and DoD issuances, the Secretary of a Military Department or the Secretary of the Treasury is permitted to donate, lend, or exchange, as applicable, without expense to the United States, books, manuscripts, works of art, historical artifacts, drawings, plans, models and condemned or obsolete combat materiel that are not needed by the Military Services.

(ii) Establish supplementary procedures governing loans, donations, and exchanges.

(iii) May donate, loan or exchange items as identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, if the special donation, loan, or exchange action occurs prior to transfer to DLA Disposition Services for disposition. It is not authorized after property has been officially declared excess and transferred to DLA Disposition Services.

(iv) May exchange assets for:

(A) Similar items;

(B) Conservation supplies, equipment, facilities, or systems;

(C) Search, salvage, or transportation services;

(D) Restoration, conservation or preservation services; or

(E) Educational programs when it directly benefits the historical collection of the DoD Components.

(v) May not make an exchange unless the monetary value of the property transferred or services provided to the United States under the exchange is not less than the value of the property transferred by the United States. The Secretary concerned may waive this limitation in the case of an exchange for property in which the Secretary determines the item to be received by the United States will significantly enhance the historical collection of the property administered by the Secretary.

(vi) Will not incur costs in connection with loans or gifts. However, the DoD Component concerned may, without cost to the recipient, DEMIL, prepare, and transport within the CONUS items authorized for donation to a recognized war veterans' association in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 if the DoD Component determines this can be accomplished as a training mission, without additional expenditures for the unit involved.
