
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.8 Donations, loans, and exchanges.
######## Eligibility determination.

(5)The DoD Components will determine the eligibility of organizations for gifts and loans. The DoD Components may establish eligibility requirements dependent upon the unique nature of the specific historical item; however, the minimum requirements are:

(i) Limit donations, loans, or exchanges to property stipulated by 10 U.S.C. 2557, 2572, 2576, and 2576a. Except for relevant records for aircraft and associated engines and equipment (unless authorized under DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 and DoD Instruction 2030.08), government records may not be released.

(ii) Approve the loan, donation, or exchange; process requests for variations from the original agreement; and maintain official records of all donation, loan, and exchange agreements. The approval of exchanges may be delegated at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, and is encouraged for low-dollar transactions.

(iii) Establish controls for determining compliance by the recipient organization with the display, security, and usage criteria provided in the loan and donation agreements.

(iv) Provide disposition instructions to the recipient organization when loaned or donated property is no longer needed or authorized for continued use.

(v) Establish conditions for making donations, loans, or exchanges.
