
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.8 Donations, loans, and exchanges.
######## e.g.,

(vi) Establish a process (a council or other means suitable to the loan and donation organization) to review and approve proposed exchanges incorporating legal and financial review independent of the museum involved. Personnel directly involved in museum operations will not act as sole approving authority for any exchange transactions.

(vii) Ensure that correspondence regarding loans, donations, or exchanges is signed by individuals authorized to obligate their organization.

(viii) Ensure appropriate DEMIL of the property as prescribed in DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 before release. If standard DEMIL criteria cannot be applied without destroying the display value, specific DEMIL actions (such as aircraft structural cuts) may be delayed. The recipient organization must agree to assume responsibility for the property DEMIL action, at no cost to the Government, when the item is no longer desired or authorized for display purposes. The recipient organization may also return the property to the Government via the donating Military Department for full DEMIL action.

(ix) Loan, donate, or exchange property on an "as is, where is" basis and ensure that the recipient organization agrees to pay all costs incident to preparation, handling, and movement of the property. Military Department contact points for the loan, donation, or exchange of property are at Table 5 of this section.

(A) Property may not be repaired, modified, or changed at government expense over and above normal preparation for handling and movement, even if reimbursement is offered for services rendered.

(B) Property may not be moved at government expense to a recipient's location or to another location closer to the recipient to prevent or lessen the recipient organization's processing or transportation costs.

(C) No charge will be made for the property itself, but all physical processing of the property for the loan or donation will be the responsibility of the recipient organization. The recipient organization will pay all applicable charges before release of the property.

(x) Record assets on property accountability records before they are loaned, donated, or exchanged.

(xi) Coordinate with the DoS before a donation, loan, or exchange is formalized with a foreign museum.

(xii) Ensure an official authorized to obligate the organization signs a certificate of assurance, as shown at Figure 3 of this section.

(xiii) Ensure proper documentation is finalized in accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3 before the release of any property to an authorized recipient.

(A) Use the standard loan agreement in the format prescribed by Figure 4 of this section or a similar document providing the same data for accomplishing property loans.

(B) Accomplish property donations made under this authority by use of the conditional deed of gift agreement in the format prescribed in Figure 5 of this section or a similar document providing the same data.

(C) Accomplish property exchanges made under this authority by use of the exchange agreement in the format prescribed in Figure 6 of this section or a similar document providing the same data. Items may not be exchanged until a determination is made that the item is not needed for operational requirements by another Military Department. If the council or similar staff review process considers it unlikely the item in question will be needed by another Military Department, screening may be omitted. A museum of one Military Department may not acquire for the purpose of exchanging historical items being screened by another Military Department museum.

(xiv) Avoid stockpiling condemned or obsolete combat materiel in anticipation of future exchanges. Items that cannot be exchanged within a 2-year period should be processed for disposal.

(xv) Notify exchange recipients that the Department of Defense cannot certify aircraft, components, or parts as airworthy. Aircraft, components, or parts must be certified by the FAA as airworthy before being returned to flight usage. If available, logbooks and maintenance records for FSCAP must accompany the aircraft and FSCAP. If such documentation is not available, or if the aircraft or FSCAP have been crash-damaged or similarly compromised, the aircraft, components, or parts may not be exchanged, unless the FSCAP parts have been removed from the aircraft or component prior to the exchange. Waivers to this FSCAP documentation requirement may be considered on a case-by-case basis and are restricted to "display only" property (not parts); waivers will apply only to the exchange of the whole aircraft, aircraft engines, and aircraft components. The exchange agreement must explicitly cite the lack of documentation.

(xvi) Consider any adverse market impact that may result from the exchange of certain items. The Military Department should consult with outside organizations for market impact advice, as appropriate.

(xvii) Elect to donate property without conditions; for example, when the administrative costs to the Military Department to perform yearly checks would exceed the value of the property. Unconditional donations are restricted to books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans and models, and historical artifacts valued at less than $10,000 that do not require DEMIL (see Figure 7 of this section).
