
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.8 Donations, loans, and exchanges.
######## i.e.,

(ii) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7306, the Secretary of the Navy, with approval of Congress, may donate obsolete, condemned, or captured Navy ships, boats, and small landing craft to the States, territories, or possessions of the United States, and political subdivisions or municipal corporations thereof, the District of Columbia, or to associations or corporations whose charter or articles of agreement denies them the right to operate for profit. The Navy restricts the use of donated vessels for use in static display purposes only (as memorials or museums).

(A) Applications for ships, boats, and small landing craft will be submitted to the Commander, Naval Sea Systems Command (NSEA 00DG), 2531 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22240-5160.

(B) Before submission of an application, the applicant must locate obsolete, condemned, or captured Navy ships, boats, and small landing craft which are available for transfer.

(iii) Each application will contain:

(A) Type of vessel desired, or in the case of combatant vessels, the official Navy identification of the vessel desired.

(B) Statement of the proposed use to be made of the vessel and where it will be located.

(C) Statement describing and confirming availability of a berthing site and the facilities and personnel to maintain the vessel.

(D) Statement that the applicant agrees to maintain the vessel, at its own expense, in a condition satisfactory to the Department of the Navy, in accordance with instructions that the Department may issue, and that no expense will result to the United States as a consequence of such terms and conditions prescribed by the Department of the Navy.

(E) Statement that the applicant agrees to take delivery of the vessel "as is, where is" at its berthing site and to pay all charges incident to such delivery, including without limitation preparation of the vessel for removal or tow, towing, insurance, and berthing or other installation at the applicant's site.

(F) Statement of financial resources currently available to the applicant to pay the costs required to be assumed by a donee. The statement should include a summary of sources, annual income, and annual expenditures exclusive of the estimated costs attributable to the requested vessel to permit an evaluation of funds available for upkeep of the vessel. In the event the applicant will rely on commitments of donated services and materials for maintenance and use of the vessel, such commitments must be described in detail.

(G) Statement that the applicant agrees that it will return the vessel, if and when requested to do so by the Department of the Navy, during a national emergency, and will not, without the written consent of the Department, use the vessel other than as stated in the application or destroy, transfer, or otherwise dispose of the vessel.

(H) If the applicant asserts it is a corporation or association whose charter or articles of agreement denies it the right to operate for profit, their application must also contain a copy of the organization's bylaws and either:
