
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart A - Disposal Guidance and Procedures
####### ยง 273.8 Donations, loans, and exchanges.
######## Disposition after use of special donations (gifts), loans, and exchanges.

(10)(i) The requirements of the recipient organization are:

(A) For materiel no longer desired or authorized for continued use by a recipient organization, the Military Department will advise the recipient organization if it wants to repossess the property. Regardless of the determination made, care will be taken to ensure the recipient organization fulfills its responsibility to finalize the disposition action at no cost to the government. Repossession of the property will be governed by the property's historical significance, its potential for use in behalf of other requests, or its estimated sale value, if sold by the Department of Defense. Repossession of property will be documented; copies of the documentation will be retained by the donee and lender.

(B) Based on type of property, its location, etc., it is not always feasible to require the physical movement of the property to the nearest DLA Disposition Services site. In these cases, the owning Military Department may elect to work with DLA Disposition Services for receipt and sale in-place, when economically feasible.

(ii) Return of property donated to the Navy is subject to the approval of the Curator for the Department of the Navy. Any article, materiel, or equipment, including silver service, loaned or donated to the naval service by any State, group, or organization may be returned to the lender or donee in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 7546. When the owner cannot be located after a reasonable search, or if, after being offered the property, the owner states in writing that the return of the property is not desired, the property will be disposed of in the same manner as other surplus property.
