
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### IFSP.

(6)(i) The EDIS shall develop and implement an IFSP for each infant and toddler with a disability, from birth up to 3 years of age, who meets the eligibility criteria for EIS.

(ii) EDIS shall convene a meeting to develop the IFSP of an infant or toddler with a disability. The meeting shall be scheduled as soon as possible following its determination that the infant or toddler is eligible for EIS, but not later than 45 days from the date of the referral for services.

(iii) The IFSP team meeting to develop and review the IFSP must include:

(A) The parent or parents of the infant or toddler.

(B) Other family members, as requested by the parent, if feasible.

(C) An advocate or person outside of the family if the parent requests that person's participation.

(D) The service coordinator who has worked with the family since the initial referral of the infant or toddler or who is responsible for the implementation of the IFSP.

(E) The persons directly involved in conducting the evaluations and assessments.

(F) As appropriate, persons who shall provide services to the infant or toddler or the family.

(iv) If a participant listed in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section is unable to attend a meeting, arrangements must be made for the person's involvement through other means, which may include:

(A) A telephone conference call or other electronic means of communication.

(B) Providing knowledgeable, authorized representation.

(C) Providing pertinent records for use at the meeting.

(v) The IFSP shall contain:

(A) A statement of the infant's or toddler's current developmental levels including physical, cognitive, communication, social or emotional, and adaptive behaviors based on the information from the evaluation and assessments.

(B) A statement of the family's resources, priorities, and concerns about enhancing the infant's or toddler's development.

(C) A statement of the measurable results or measurable outcomes expected to be achieved for the infant or toddler and the family. The statement shall contain pre-literacy and language skills, as developmentally appropriate for the infant or toddler, and the criteria, procedures, and timelines used to determine the degree to which progress toward achieving the outcomes is being made and whether modification or revision of the results and services are necessary.

(D) A statement of the specific EIS based on peer-reviewed research, to the extent practicable, necessary to meet the unique needs of the infant or toddler and the family, including the frequency, intensity, and method of delivering services.

(E) A statement of the natural environments in which EIS will be provided including a justification of the extent, if any, to which the services shall not be provided in a natural environment because the intervention cannot be achieved satisfactorily for the infant or toddler. The IFSP must include a justification for not providing a particular early intervention service in the natural environment.

(F) The projected dates for initiation of services and the anticipated length, duration, and frequency of those services.

(G) The name of the service coordinator who shall be responsible for the implementation of the IFSP and for coordination with other agencies and persons. In meeting these requirements, EDIS may:
