
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.14 Responsibilities.

(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(AT&L), and in accordance with DoD Directive 5134.12:

(1) Develops DoD materiel disposition policies, including policies for FEPP.

(2) Oversees the effective implementation of the DoD materiel disposition program.

(3) Approves changes to FEPP procedures as appropriate to support contingency operations.

(b) The Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness (ASD(L&MR)):

(1) Administers the worldwide Defense Materiel Disposition Program for the reutilization, transfer, screening, issue, and sale of FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property.

(2) Implements guidance issued by the ASD(L&MR) or other organizational elements of the OSD and establishes system concepts and requirements, resource management, program guidance, budgeting and funding, training and career development, management review and analysis, internal control measures, and crime prevention for the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.

(3) Annually provides to ASD(L&MR) a summary of sales proceeds from recycling transactions in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2577.

(4) Ensures prompt processing of monthly sales proceeds under the QRP to DoD Components for reconciliation of sales proceeds and transactions.

(c) The DoD Component Heads:

(1) Implement the procedures prescribed in this subpart and ensure that supplemental guidance and procedures are in accordance with 41 CFR chapters 101 and 102.

(2) Reutilize, transfer, screen, issue and sell FEPP, excess and surplus personal property according to the procedures in ยง 273.15(a) and (c).

(3) Treat the disposal of DoD property as an integral part of DoD Supply Chain Management; ensure that disposal actions and costs are a part of "end-to-end" management of items and that disposal of property is a planned event at all levels of their organizations.

(4) Furnish the Director, DLA, with mutually agreed-upon data necessary to administer the Defense Materiel Disposition Program.

(5) Provide administrative and logistics support, including appropriate facilities, for the operations of tenant and related off-site DLA Disposition Services field activities under inter-Service support agreements (ISSAs).

(6) Dispose HP specifically designated as requiring Military Department processing.

(7) Request DLA Disposition Services provide sales services, as needed, for recyclable marketable materials generated as a result of resource recovery programs.

(8) Monitor, with DLA Disposition Services Site personnel, all property sent to landfills to ensure no economically salable property is discarded.

(9) Report, accurately identify on approved turn in documents, and turn in all authorized scrap generations to servicing DLA Disposition Services Sites.

(10) Authorize installation commanders, as appropriate, to sell directly recyclable and other QRP materials, or to consign them to the DLA Disposition Services for sale.
