
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### 3

() Appoint a service coordinator requested by the parents.

(H) A description of the appropriate transition services supporting the movement of the toddler with a disability to preschool or other services.

(vi) EDIS shall explain the contents of the IFSP to the parents and shall obtain an informed, written consent from the parents before providing EIS described in the IFSP.

(vii) The IFSP shall be implemented within ten business days of completing the document, unless the IFSP team, including the parents, documents the need for a delay.

(viii) If a parent does not provide consent for participation in all EIS, EDIS shall still provide those interventions to which a parent does give consent.

(ix) EDIS shall evaluate the IFSP at least once a year and the family shall be provided an opportunity to review the plan at 6-month intervals (or more frequently, based on the needs of the child and family). The purpose of the periodic review is to determine:

(A) The degree to which progress toward achieving the outcomes is being made.

(B) Whether modification or revision of the outcomes or services is necessary.

(x) The review may be carried out by a meeting or by another means that is acceptable to the parents and other participants.
