
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/sales/index.shtml

(vi) Information on surplus and FEPP sales can be obtained from the DLA Customer Contact Center, accessible 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on the DLA Disposition Services Government Sales Web site at.

(vii) Within the CONUS, DLA Disposition Services has partnered with a commercial firm to sell usable, non-hazardous surplus demilitarization (DEMIL) Code A and safe to sell Q property that is not reutilized, transferred, or donated. The commercial venture partner schedules and holds sales of property released to it by DLA Disposition Services. DLA Disposition Services has partnered with a commercial firm to sell scrap property. The scrap venture partner schedules and holds sales of scrap property released to it by DLA Disposition Services.

(viii) DLA Disposition Services conducts the balance of surplus and FEPP sales. This includes hazardous and chemical sales and DEMIL- and mutilation-required property and scrap sales in controlled property groups.

(A) DoD Components implement controls to mitigate security risks associated with the release or disposition of DEMIL Code B MLI and DEMIL Code Q CCL items that are sensitive for reasons of national security. Certain categories of DEMIL Q items that pose no risk to national security will be available for reutilization, transfer, or donation (RTD) and sales following normal procedures. However, only FEPP with DEMIL Code A (no export license requirements except to restricted parties) may be sold in foreign countries that are not restricted parties, in accordance with 15 CFR parts 730 through 774. DEMIL B and DEMIL Q items, including those posing no risk to national security are not permitted for sale.
