
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Transition from early intervention services.

(7)(i) EDIS shall provide a written transition plan for toddlers receiving EIS to facilitate their transition to preschool or other setting, if appropriate. A transition plan must be recorded on the IFSP between the toddler's second and third birthday and not later than 90 days before the toddler's third birthday and shall include the following steps to be taken:

(A) A plan for discussions with, and training of, parents, as appropriate, regarding future transition from early intervention services, and for obtaining parental consent to facilitate the release of toddler records in order to meet child-find requirements of DoDEA, and to ensure smooth transition of services;

(B) The specific steps to be taken to help the toddler adjust to, and function in, the preschool or other setting and changes in service delivery;

(C) The procedures for providing notice of transition to the DoDEA CSC, for setting a pre-transition meeting with the CSC (with notice to parents), and for confirmation that child-find information, early intervention assessment reports, the IFSP, and relevant supporting documentation are transmitted to the DoDEA CSC;

(D) Identification of transition services or other activities that the IFSP team determines are necessary to support the transition of the child.

(ii) Families shall be included in the transition planning. EDIS shall inform the toddler's parents regarding future preschool, the child-find requirements of the school, and the procedures for transitioning the toddler from EIS to preschool.

(iii) Not later than 6 months before the toddler's third birthday, the EDIS service coordinator shall obtain parental consent prior to release of identified records of a toddler receiving EIS to the DoD local school in order to allow the DoDEA school to meet child-find requirements.

(iv) The EDIS service coordinator shall initiate a pre-transition meeting with the CSC, and shall provide the toddler's early intervention assessment reports, IFSP, and relevant supporting documentation. The parent shall receive reasonable notice of the pre-transition meeting, shall receive copies of any documents provided to the CSC, and shall have the right to participate in and provide input to the pre-transition meeting.

(v) As soon as reasonably possible following receipt of notice of a toddler potentially transitioning to preschool, the local DoDEA school shall convene a CSC. The CSC and EDIS shall cooperate to obtain parental consent, in accordance with IDEA and this part, to conduct additional evaluations if necessary.

(vi) Based on the information received from EDIS, the CSC, coordinating with EDIS, will determine at the pre-transition meeting whether:

(A) No additional testing or observation is necessary to determine that the toddler is eligible for special education and related services, in which case the CSC shall develop an eligibility report based on the EDIS early intervention assessment reports, IFSP, supporting documentation and other information obtained at the pre-transition meeting, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section; or

(B) Additional testing or observation is necessary to determine whether the toddler is eligible for special education and related services, in which case the CSC shall develop an assessment plan to collect all required information necessary to determine eligibility for special education and obtain parental consent, in accordance with IDEA and this part, for evaluation in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(vii) In the event that the toddler is first referred to EDIS fewer than 90 days before the toddler's third birthday, EDIS and the DoDEA school shall work cooperatively in the evaluation process and shall develop a joint assessment plan to determine whether the toddler is eligible for EIS or special education.

(A) EDIS shall complete its eligibility determination process and the development of an IFSP, if applicable.

(B) The CSC shall determine eligibility for special education.

(viii) Eligibility assessments shall be multidisciplinary and family-centered and shall incorporate the resources of the EDIS as necessary and appropriate.

(ix) Upon completion of the evaluations, the CSC shall schedule an eligibility determination meeting at the local school, no later than 90 days prior to the toddler's third birthday.

(A) The parents shall receive reasonable notice of the eligibility determination meeting, shall receive copies of any documents provided to the CSC, and shall have the right to participate in and provide input to the meeting.

(B) EDIS and the CSC shall cooperate to develop an eligibility determination report based upon all available data, including that provided by EDIS and the parents, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(x) If the toddler is found eligible for special education and related services, the CSC shall develop an individualized education program (IEP) in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, and must implement the IEP on or before the toddler's third birthday.

(xi) If the toddler's third birthday occurs during the period June through August (the traditional summer vacation period for school systems), the CSC shall complete the eligibility determination process and the development of an IEP before the end of the school year preceding the toddler's third birthday. An IEP must be prepared to ensure that the toddler enters preschool services with an instructional program at the start of the new school year.

(xii) The full transition of a toddler shall occur on the toddler's third birthday unless the IFSP team and the CSC determine that an extended transition is in the best interest of the toddler and family.

(A) An extended transition may occur when:
