
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## Suspension and debarment of bidders.

(8)(i) 41 CFR 102-38.170, 31 U.S.C. 6101 note, Executive Order 12549, "Debarment and Suspension" (February 18, 1986), and Executive Order 12689, "Debarment and Suspension" (August 16, 1989) provide the authority for the suspension or debarment of bidders or contractors purchasing personal property from the government. The selling agent must follow the procedures described in 48 CFR subpart 9.4 of the FAR to debar or suspend a person or entity from the purchase of personal property. The debarring official for DLA Disposition Services sales is the DLA Special Assistant for Contracting Integrity.

(ii) Appointed SARs and SCOs will:

(A) Prepare recommendations for suspension or debarment from the sale of Federal property and acquisition contracts.

(B) Forward them to their respective servicing legal offices.

(C) Prepare reports recommending suspension or debarment using the procedures described in 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the Defense FAR Supplement, current edition, in all cases where purchasers are recommended for suspension or debarment.

(iii) In addition to applicable guidance in 48 CFR subpart 9.4 and 48 CFR 45.602-1, 52.233-1, and 14.407 of the FAR and 48 CFR subpart 209.4 of the Defense FAR Supplement, current edition, contractors who are suspended, debarred, or proposed for debarment are also excluded from conducting business with the government as agents or representatives of another contractor. Firms or individuals who submit bids on sale solicitations on behalf of suspended or debarred contractors, or who in any other manner conduct business with the government as agents or representatives of suspended or debarred contractors, may be treated as affiliates as described in 48 CFR 9.403 of the FAR, and may be suspended or debarred.

(iv) Parties who violate trade security control (TSC) policies may be recommended for debarment or suspension.
