
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## Indebted bidders and purchasers.

(9)(i) No awards may be made to bidders indebted to the government. Selling agencies will coordinate with DFAS to determine if a bidder is indebted to DoD and maintain local listings containing bidder name, address, sales contract information, amount of indebtedness, and date indebted.

(ii) Circumstances where the SAR or SCO must initiate action include:

(A) At bid opening. Bidders can bid if they cure the debt prior to the opening.

(B) As the result of monies owed the contractor as a refund.

(C) As a result of monies received for bid deposit.

(D) As a result of failure to make payment for overages, ancillary charges, etc.

(E) As a result of affiliation with suspended bidder.

(iii) Checks received for debts will be deposited immediately and the bidder will not be notified until the check has cleared its bank. Cash or negotiable instruments will be deposited immediately.

(iv) SARs or SCOs will contact the bidder and advise that the monies have been deposited to offset the specific indebtedness.

(v) If a SAR or SCO suspects affiliation, the SAR or SCO will contact the bidder and advise that the monies have been deposited according to the procedures in 31 U.S.C. 3711-3720E for the collection of debts owed to the United States.
