
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## Withdrawal from sale.

(17)(i) Property that has been physically inspected, determined to be usable or needed, and thereby has survived screening is eligible for sale and may be requested to satisfy valid requirements within limitations specified in this paragraph. Generally, property past the screening cycle may not be withdrawn from sale. However, circumstances may require the withdrawal of property from sale to satisfy valid needs within the Department of Defense or FCAs. Donation recipients are not eligible to withdraw property from the sale unless they can provide DLA Disposition Services with documentation that an error was made by DLA Disposition Services and they should have been issued the property or the property was never available for electronic screening in GSA personal property database GSAXcess&#xAE;.

(ii) In many instances, the property remains at a DLA Disposition Services site after the title has been transferred. This property is ineligible for withdrawal to satisfy DoD needs. If the DoD Component intends to pursue purchasing the property from the commercial partner, transactions must be handled between the partner and the DoD Component without intervention from the DLA Disposition Services.

(iii) Pursuant to 41 CFR chapter 102, due to the potential for adverse public relations, every effort will be made to keep withdrawals from sales to a minimum. These efforts will include searching for assets elsewhere in the disposal process. Exceptions to this policy will be implemented only when all efforts to otherwise satisfy a valid need have been exhausted and the withdrawal action is determined to be cost effective and in the best interest of the government. DoD Component heads will ensure that withdrawal authority is stringently controlled and applied.

(iv) Make requests to the selling agency by the most expeditious means. With the exception of ICP or IMM and NMCS orders, requests will provide full justification including a statement that the property is needed to satisfy a valid requirement.

(v) Withdrawals may not be processed subject to property inspection for acceptability. Inspect property before requesting withdrawal.

(vi) Orders submitted by ICPs or IMMs do not require justification statements before award.

(vii) With the exception of ICPs and IMMs, minimum written information required in the package for withdrawal requests includes:

(A) Detailed justification as to why the property is required, including how the property will be used; such as applicability of materiel to active weapons systems.
