
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## Commercial Space Launch Act (CSLA).

(ii)(A) The purpose of the CSLA, 51 U.S.C. Chapter 509, is to promote economic growth and entrepreneurial activity through the utilization of the space environment for peaceful purposes; encourage the private sector to provide launch vehicles and associated launch services; and to facilitate and encourage the acquisition (sale, lease, transaction in lieu of sale, or otherwise) by the private sector of launch property of the United States that is excess or otherwise not needed for public use, in consultation with Secretary of Transportation. Donation screening is not required prior to sale.

(B) The DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) has the primary responsibility for coordinating DoD issues or views with the Department of Treasury, other Executive department organizations, and the Congress on matters arising from private sector commercial space activities, particularly the operations of commercial ELVs and national security interests.

(C) The DLA Disposition Services is the primary office to conduct CSLA sales following the direction for pricing and disposition as specified in DoD Directive 3230.3 Sales will be by competitive bid to U.S. firms or persons having demonstrated action toward becoming a commercial launch provider. The DoD CIO and the Secretary of the U.S. Air Force (USAF) designated representative will support DLA Disposition Services, as necessary, in the sale or transfer of excess and surplus personal property to the private sector, including the identification of potential bidders and any special sales terms and conditions. The generating activity will assist, as necessary, in completing sales transactions.
