
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## Screening for personal property,Screening.

(3)-(i)(A) DoD reutilization is accomplished electronically via MILSTRIP and DLA Transaction Services, through the DLA Disposition Services Web site.

(B) At the end of the DoD exclusive internal screening cycle, DoD excess property (excluding FEPP, scrap and HW) is transmitted to the GSAXcess&#xAE;, and GSA assumes control of federal agency transfer and donation screening. The property remains in DLA Disposition Services accounts and can be viewed on their Web site.

(C) GSA federal screening is accomplished through the GSAXcess&#xAE; platform that is a customer interface to the Federal Disposal System (FEDS). DoD personnel may shop in GSAXcess&#xAE; at any time and search and select property from DoD and other FCAs. Transportation costs for other FCA property are borne by the DoD screener. DLA Disposition Services makes shipping arrangements for DoD orders in GSAXcess&#xAE; and includes the transportation costs in the cost of the item.

(D) Enclosure 7 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2 and Enclosure 3 to DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4 provides additional information on screening for excess personal property by category.

(E) All references to days are calendar days unless otherwise specified.

(F) With electronic screening, physical tagging of property at a DLA Disposition Services site to place a "hold" until an order has been submitted is no longer authorized.

(G) DLA Disposition Services provides reasonable access to authorized personnel for inspection and removal of excess personal property.
