
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## v,3,vi,vii

() Comply with ยง 273.7(d), (e), and (f) for transferring excess DoD property, using DD Form 1348-1A or DD Form 1348-2, "Issue Release/Receipt Document with Address Label," as DTIDs. Schedule turn-ins with the DLA Disposition Services site and assume responsibility for delivering usable and scrap property to DLA Disposition Services sites. Non-hazardous property may be received in-place using the standard DoD receipt in-place processes. Hazardous property cannot be physically accepted at the DLA Disposition Services site and will be processed in-place only, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3)(viii)(M)()() and () of this section. Property will normally be turned in as individual line items; however, batchlotting by FSC of non-hazardous items with a combined acquisition value of up to $800 is permitted. Identify the transaction by using their officially assigned FCA activity address code (AAC). The first position of the AAC begins with 1 through 9. Annotate "XP" funding code in blocks 52 and 53 and a disposal authority code of "F" in position 64 of the DTID. Annotate the DLA Disposition Services Economy Act Order Assigned Number in block 27. Include appropriate hazardous property documents containing the required information found in Volume 4 of DoD 4160.21-M. Ensure that no radioactive material, waste, or other excluded hazardous property is turned in to the DLA Disposition Services site. Cover costs associated with substantiated sale contracts claims, if negligence or fault is established. Contact the appropriate DLA Disposition Services site for procedures to use when inventory discrepancies surface for property that the FCA is designated the custodian. The FCA will research and provide a report of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property. Procedures are contained in accordance with Volume 12, Chapter 7 of DoD 7000.14-R.
