
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## Orders for FEPP, excess, and surplus property from DLA Disposition Services and GSA,General.

(4)-(i)(A) DoD activities, FCAs, and other authorized activities are permitted to order DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property based on the property status at the time the authorized screener identifies its availability from the DLA Disposition Services Web site. This property may be ordered through DLA Disposition Services or GSA.

(B) DLM 4000.25-1 requires orders for property on the DLA Disposition Services site's accountable records to be prepared on DD Forms 1348-1A or 1348-2. The use of the DLA Disposition Services Web site allows orders to be processed without hard copies of DD Forms 1348-1A or 1348-2. A separate order is required for each line item on a DLA Disposition Services site's inventory (except batchlots that are grouped together). The shopper will furnish the appropriate information either electronically or by hard copy.

(C) Orders for property in the GSA screening cycle will be submitted through GSAXcess&#xAE;. Customers are required to complete and submit the SF 122 "Transfer Order Excess Personal Property" to GSA. GSA will then transmit the order to DLA Disposition Services.

(D) DoD activities (other than MWRAs or Services, which are covered in ยง 273.6) must request Military Department or Defense Agency excess and FEPP through servicing accountable officers or their designated representatives.

(E) See ยง 273.6 for special guidance affecting USCG ordering.

(F) U.S. Army accountable supply officers should check with their finance accounting office prior to requesting items from DLA Disposition Services. Often, Army customers are billed internally for the items they have ordered from DLA Disposition Services.

(G) The following principles apply to acquiring property from these sources, including Federal regulations, which apply to the Department of Defense, special programs and activities, FCAs, and donees when acquiring excess or surplus personal property:
