
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## 7

() DoD activities will request only that property that is authorized by the parent HQ or command. Activities may not request quantities of property exceeding authorized retention limits.

(H) The special screening programs will request only property that is authorized by the program or activity accountable officer or program manager, whichever is applicable. If the special screening programs want DLA Disposition Services site to verify the FSC has been authorized before release, the accountable officer or program manager must provide a current authorized FSC list to the DLA Disposition Services site. The removal agent must sign any certification required, acknowledging understanding of rules of disposal, prior to removal of the property.

(I) The Military Department accountable officer who designates DoD individuals to sign orders on their behalf must provide DLA Disposition Services sites with an electronic letter of authorization, identifying those individuals. The template for the letter is on the DLA Disposition Services Web site. It will include the full name, activity, DoDAAC, telephone number, address, and signature of the individuals authorized to sign and authenticate MROs. These individuals may be different from those who are the initial shoppers or those picking up the property.
