
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 273 - DEFENSE MATERIEL DISPOSITION
###### Subpart B - Reutilization, Transfer, and Sale of Property
####### ยง 273.15 Procedures.
######## Reimbursement requirements.

(6)(i) The generating activity will identify reimbursement requirements on the DTID when transferring property to the DLA Disposition Services site. Although not specifically a DLA Disposition Services responsibility, DLA Disposition Services sites may contact the generating activity when they suspect the generator may be eligible for reimbursement but has not noted it on the DTID.

(ii) Issue of declared Military Department or Defense Agency FEPP, excess and surplus personal property to DoD users will be on a non-reimbursable basis except when the customer is prohibited by law from acquiring FEPP, excess and surplus property without reimbursement or where reimbursement is required by annotations on the receipt DTID. Issues to the USPS require fair-market value reimbursement.

(iii) The requester will transfer funds to the generating activity without DLA Disposition Services site involvement.

(iv) The DLA Disposition Services site will provide the name of the property requiring reimbursement when it is requested by the DoD or an FCA. The requesting activity and the generating activity must agree on the appropriate amount of funds, and how they will be transferred. When this is accomplished, the generating activity must give the DLA Disposition Services site a letter indicating what property is to be transferred and to whom. The DLA Disposition Services site will file a copy of this letter with the issue document to create an audit trail.

(v) Issues of DoD FEPP, excess, and surplus personal property, other than foreign purchased property and other property identified as reimbursable, will be at no cost to FCAs and to SASPs.

(A) Property purchased with working capital funds is not eligible for reimbursement in the transfer or donation program. GSA may direct transfers be made with reimbursement at fair market value.

(B) Public law may prohibit FCAs from obtaining certain property.

(C) FCAs, for the purpose of issue of excess property, include federal executive agencies other than the DoD; wholly owned government corporations; the Senate; the House of Representatives; the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under their direction; the municipal government of the District of Columbia; or non-federal agencies for whom GSA procures.

(vi) Foreign purchased property reimbursements will be at the acquisition value.

(vii) For special programs and activities, DLA Disposition Services sales to special account fund citations may be required in accordance with Volume 11a, Chapter 5 of DoD 7000.14-R. For DLA Disposition Services to provide timely and accurate reimbursements, the transportation account code address in DLA Transaction Services must be correct and current.

(A) In accordance with DoD 4160.28-M Volumes 1-3, all DoD MLI and Commerce Control List (CCL) personal property, whether located within or outside the United States, will be transferred in accordance with 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 and 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
