
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### Assessment and evaluation.

(6)(i) A full and comprehensive evaluation of educational needs shall be conducted prior to eligibility determination and before an IEP is developed or placement is made in a special education program, subject to the provisions for incoming students transferring to a DoDEA school as set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. When the school determines that a child should be evaluated for a suspected disability, the school will:

(A) Issue a prior written notice to the parents of the school's intention to evaluate and a description of the evaluation in accordance with paragraph (b)(19) of this section.

(B) Provide parents notice of procedural safeguards.

(C) Request that the parent execute a written consent for the evaluation in accordance with paragraph (b)(17) of this section.

(D) Make reasonable efforts to obtain the informed consent from the parent for an initial evaluation to determine whether the child is a child with a disability.

(ii) The CSC shall ensure that the following elements are included in a full and comprehensive assessment and evaluation of a child:

(A) Screening of visual and auditory acuity.

(B) Review of existing school educational and health records.

(C) Observation in an educational environment.

(D) A plan to assess the type and extent of the disability. A child shall be assessed in all areas related to the suspected disability. The assessment plan shall include, as appropriate:
