
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 275 - RIGHT TO FINANCIAL PRIVACY ACT
###### ยง 275.3 Authorization.
####### e.g.,

(e) The notice requirements required by section 1108(4) of the Act, or the requirements pertaining to the delay of notice in section 1109 of the Act, and described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section are satisfied, except in situations (section 1113(g)) where no notice is required.

(1) The notice requirements are satisfied when a copy of the request has been served on the customer or mailed to the customer's last known address on or before the date on which the request was made to the financial institution together with the following notice which shall state with reasonable specificity the nature of the law enforcement inquiry: "Records or information concerning your transactions held by the financial institution named in the attached request are being sought by the Department of Defense [or the specific DoD Component] in accordance with the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 for the following purpose:"

(2)(i) Within ten days of service or within fourteen days of mailing of a subpoena, summons, or formal written request, a customer may file a motion to quash an administrative summons or judicial subpoena, or an application to enjoin a Government authority from obtaining financial records pursuant to a formal written request, with copies served upon the Government authority. A motion to quash a judicial subpoena shall be filed in the court that issued the subpoena. A motion to quash an administrative summons or an application to enjoin a Government authority from obtaining records pursuant to a formal written request shall be filed in the appropriate United States District Court. Such motion or application shall contain an affidavit or sworn statement stating:

(A) That the applicant is a customer of the financial institution from which financial records pertaining to said customer have been sought; and

(B) The applicant's reasons for believing that the financial records sought are not relevant to the legitimate law enforcement inquiry stated by the Government authority in its notice, or that there has not been substantial compliance within the provisions of the Act.

(ii) Service shall be made upon a Government authority by delivering or mailing by registered or certified mail a copy of the papers to the person, office, or department specified in the notice which the customer has received a request.

(3) If a customer desires that such records or information not be made available, the customer must:

(i) Fill out the accompanying motion paper and sworn statement or write one of the customer's own, stating that he or she is the customer whose records are being requested by the Government and either giving the reasons the customer believes that the records are not relevant to the legitimate law enforcement inquiry stated in this notice or any other legal basis for objecting to the release of the records.

(ii) File the motion and statement by mailing or delivering them to the clerk at an appropriate United States District Court.

(iii) Serve the Government authority requesting the records by mailing or delivering a copy of the motion and statement to the Government authority.

(iv) Be prepared to go to court and present the customer's position in further detail.

(v) The customer does not need to have a lawyer, although he or she may wish to employ a lawyer to represent the customer and protect the customer's rights.

(4) If the customer does not follow the procedures in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, upon the expiration of ten days from the date of service or fourteen days from the date of mailing of the notice, the records or information requested therein may be made available. The records may be transferred to other Government authorities for legitimate law enforcement inquiries, in which event the customer will be notified after the transfer.

(5) Also, the records or information requested therein may be made available if ten days have expired from the date of service or fourteen days from the date of mailing of the notice and within such time period the customer has not filed a sworn statement and an application to enjoin the Government authority in an appropriate court, or the customer challenge provisions.
