
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 277 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
###### Appendix to Part 277 - Program Fraud Civil Remedies
####### Proof of service.

3.A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.

1. In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day.

2. When the period of time allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal Government shall be excluded from the computation.

3. Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional 5 days will be added to the time permitted for any response.

1. Any application to the presiding officer for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the presiding officer and served on all other parties.

2. Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The presiding officer may require the oral motions be put in writing.

3. Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the presiding officer, any party may file a response to such motion.

4. The presiding officer may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.

5. The presiding officer shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.

6. Failure by a party to raise defenses or objections or to make requests that must be made prior to the beginning of the hearing shall constitute waiver thereof, but the presiding officer may grant relief from the waiver for good cause shown.

1. The presiding officer may sanction a person, including any party or representative, for the following:

a. Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;

b. Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or

c. Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.

2. Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in subsections 3., 4., and 5. of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.

3. When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the presiding officer may:

a. Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;

b. In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;

c. Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought; and

d. Strike any part of the pleadings or other submission of the party failing to comply with such request.

4. If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the presiding officer may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.

5. The presiding officer may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief, or other document that is not filed in a timely fashion.

1. The presiding officer shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under section C., above, and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.

2. The authority shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.

3. The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.

4. The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer for good cause shown.

In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the presiding officer and the authority head, upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose.

1. The hearing may be held as follows:

a. In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;

b. In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement at issue was made; or

c. In such other place, including foreign countries, as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the presiding officer.

2. Each party shall have the opportunity to petition the presiding officer with respect to the location of the hearing.

3. The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the presiding officer.

1. Except as provided in subsection 2. of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.

2. At the discretion of the presiding officer, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written or videotaped statement or deposition. Any such written or videotaped statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for deposition or cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written or videotaped statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearings and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in subsection V.1., above.

3. The presiding officer shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to:

a. Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth;

b. Avoid needless consumption of time; and

c. Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.

4. The presiding officer shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.

5. At the discretion of the presiding officer, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination.

6. Upon motion of any party, the presiding officer shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of the following:

a. A party who is an individual;

b. In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party appearing for the party as its representative, or designated by the party's representative; or

c. An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.

1. The presiding officer shall determine the admissibility of evidence.

2. Except as provided herein, the presiding officer shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the presiding officer may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate; e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.

3. The presiding officer shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.

4. Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by consideration of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.

5. Evidence shall be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law and the holder of the privilege asserts it.

6. Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.

7. The presiding officer shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.

8. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer pursuant to section X., above.

1. The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the presiding officer at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.

2. The transcript of testimony, exhibits, and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the presiding officer and the authority head.

3. The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer.

4. Funding for the hearing and record, except for the cost of the presiding officer, shall be the responsibility of the authority in which the case arose.

The presiding officer may require or permit the parties to file post-hearing briefs. The presiding officer shall fix the time for filing any such briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The presiding officer may permit the parties to file reply briefs.

1. The presiding officer shall issue an initial decision based only on the record that shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.

2. The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:

a. Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate section C., above; and

b. If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments.

3. The presiding officer shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The presiding officer shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the presiding officer or a notice of appeal with the authority head. If the presiding officer fails to meet the deadline contained in this subsection, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.

4. Unless the initial decision of the presiding officer is timely appealed to the authority head, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision of the presiding officer shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the presiding officer.

1. Except as provided in subsection 4. of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of service of the initial decision in the manner set forth in section H., above, for service of the complaint. Service shall be proved in the manner provided in subsection H.2., above.

2. Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.

3. Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the presiding officer; however, the presiding officer shall not issue a revised initial determination without affording both parties an opportunity to be heard on the motion for reconsideration.

4. No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.

5. The presiding officer may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.

6. If the presiding officer denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with section MM., below.

7. If the presiding officer issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with section MM., below.

1. Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the authority head by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head in accordance with this section.

2. A notice of appeal:

a. May be filed at any time within 30 days after the presiding officer issues an initial or a revised initial decision. If another party files a motion for reconsideration under section LL., above, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration, until the time period for filing a motion for reconsideration under section LL., above, has expired or the motion is resolved;

b. If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies;

c. The authority head may extend the initial 30-day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the authority head a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.

3. If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the presiding officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head when:

a. The time for filing a motion for reconsideration expires without the filing of such a motion, or

b. The motion for reconsideration is denied. Issuance of a revised initial decision upon motion for reconsideration shall require filing of a new notice of appeal.

4. A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.

5. The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to the exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.

6. There is no right to appear personally before the authority head, although the authority head may at his or her discretion require the parties to appear for an oral hearing on appeal.

7. There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the presiding officer.

8. In reviewing the initial decision, the authority head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the presiding officer, unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.

9. If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority head that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the authority head shall remand the matter to the presiding officer for consideration of such additional evidence.

10. The authority head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment determined by the presiding officer in any initial decision.

11. The authority head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the authority head and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.

12. Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 32 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the authority head serves the defendant with a copy of the authority head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under section C., above, is final and is not subject to judicial review.

13. The authority heads (or their designees) may designate an officer or employee of the authority, who is serving in the grade of GS-17 or above under the General Schedule, or in the Senior Executive Service, to carry out these appellate responsibilities; however, the authority to compromise, settle, or otherwise discretionarily dispose of the case on appeal provided pursuant to subsection MM.10, hereof, may not be so redelegated pursuant to this subsection.

If at any time, the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the authority head a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this Directive with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the authority head shall stay the process immediately. The authority head may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.

1. An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the authority head.

2. No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the authority head.

31 U.S.C. 3805 authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the authority head imposing penalties or assessment under this part and specifies the procedures for such review.

31 U.S.C. 3806 and 3808(b) authorize actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.

The amount of any penalty or assessment that has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under section QQ., above, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under section TT., below, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this section against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.

All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).

1. Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.

2. The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision.

3. The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this Directive at any time after the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under section PP., above, or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties as assessments under section QQ., above.

4. The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under section PP., above, of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.

5. The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Attorney General, as appropriate.

6. Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.

1. The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or settlement must be served in the manner specified in section H., above, within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.

2. If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under subsection J.2., above, shall be deemed a notice of hearing for purposes of this section.

3. If at any time during the course of proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the authority head receives or discovers any specific information concerning bribery, gratuities, conflict of interest, or other corruption or similar activity in relation to a false claim or statement, the authority head shall immediately report such information to the Attorney General and to the Inspector General, Department of Defense.

The General Counsel for the Department of Defense is designated to carry out the responsibilities of the authority head of the Department of Defense for the issuance of additional implementing regulations that are necessary to implement PFCRA and this part to decide cases upon appeal, and to hire or designate employees of the Department of Defense to decide cases on appeal. The General Counsel, Department of Defense, is also designated to appoint presiding officers for the Department of Defense, and may assist in the appointment of presiding officers on detail from other Agencies for all authorities within the Department of Defense.
