
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### 3

() An assessment of the need for transition services for students 16 years and older.

(iii) The CSC shall involve the parents in the assessment process in order to obtain information about the child's strengths and needs and family concerns.

(iv) The CSC, where possible, shall conduct the evaluations in the geographic area where the child resides, and shall use all locally available community, medical, and school resources, including qualified examiners employed by the Military Departments, to accomplish the assessment and evaluation. At least one specialist with knowledge in each area of the suspected disability shall be a member of the multidisciplinary assessment team.

(v) The CSC must obtain parental consent, in accordance with IDEA and this part, before conducting an evaluation. The parent shall not be required to give consent for an evaluation without first being informed of the specific evaluation procedures that the school proposes to conduct.

(vi) The evaluation must be completed by the school within 45 school days following the receipt of the parent's written consent to evaluate in accordance with the school's assessment plan.

(vii) The eligibility determination meeting must be conducted within 10 school days after completion of the school's formal evaluation.

(viii) All DoD elements including the CSC and related services providers shall:

(A) Use a variety of assessment tools and strategies to gather relevant functional, developmental, and academic information, including information provided by the parent, which may assist in determining:
