
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Personnel, Military and Civilian
##### PART 57 - PROVISION OF EARLY INTERVENTION AND SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE DOD DEPENDENTS
###### ยง 57.6 Procedures.
####### 2

() The content of the child's IEP, including information related to enabling the child to be involved and progress in the general education curriculum or, for preschool children, to participate in appropriate activities.

(B) Not use any single measure or assessment as the sole criterion for determining whether a child has a disability or determining an appropriate educational program for the child.

(C) Use technically sound instruments that may assess the relative contribution of cognitive and behavioral factors, in addition to physical or developmental factors.

(ix) The CSC and DoD related services providers shall ensure that assessment materials and evaluation procedures are:

(A) Selected and administered so as not to be racially or culturally discriminatory.

(B) Provided in the child's native language or other mode of communication and in the form most likely to yield accurate information on what the child knows and can do academically, developmentally, and functionally, unless it is clearly not feasible to so provide and administer.

(C) Selected and administered to assess the extent to which the child with limited English proficiency has a disability and needs special education, rather than measuring the child's English language skills.

(D) Validated for the specific purpose for which they are used or intended to be used.

(E) Administered by trained and knowledgeable personnel in compliance with the instructions of the testing instrument.

(F) Selected to assess specific areas of educational needs and strengths and not merely to provide a single general intelligence quotient.

(G) Administered to a child with impaired sensory, motor, or communication skills so that the results accurately reflect a child's aptitude or achievement level or other factors the test purports to measure, rather than reflecting the child's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills.

(x) As part of an initial evaluation and as part of any reevaluation, the CSC shall review existing evaluation data on the child, including:

(A) The child's educational records.

(B) Evaluations and information provided by the parents of the child.

(C) Current classroom-based, local, or system-wide assessments and classroom observations.

(D) Observations by teachers and related services providers.

(xi) On the basis of that review and input from the child's parents, identify what additional data, if any, are needed to determine:

(A) Whether the child has a particular category of disability or, in the case of a reevaluation of a child, whether the child continues to have such a disability.

(B) The present levels of academic achievement and related developmental and functional needs of the child.

(C) Whether the child needs special education and related services or, in the case of a reevaluation of a child, whether the child continues to need special education and related services.

(D) Whether any additions or modifications to the special education and related services are needed to enable the child to meet the measurable annual goals set out in the IEP and to participate, as appropriate, in the general education curriculum.

(xii) The CSC may conduct its review of existing evaluation data without a meeting.

(xiii) The CSC shall administer tests and other evaluation materials as needed to produce the data identified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) and (xi) of this section.
