
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 282 - PROCEDURES FOR SETTLING PERSONNEL AND GENERAL CLAIMS AND PROCESSING ADVANCE DECISION REQUESTS
###### Appendix C to Part 282 - Submitting a Claim
####### When to Submit a Claim.

(f)A claimant must submit a claim so that it is received by the Component concerned within the time limit allowed by statute.

(1) Claimants must submit claims within these statutory time limits:

(i) Claims on account of Treasury checks under 31 U.S.C. 3702(c) must be received within 1 year after the date of issuance.

(ii) Claims under 31 U.S.C. 3702 (b), 10 U.S.C. 2771 and 32 U.S.C. 714 must be received within 6 years of the date the claim accrued. (A claim accrues on the date when everything necessary to give rise to the claim has occurred.) The time limit for claims of members of the Armed Forces that accrue during war or within 5 years before war begins, is 6 years from the date the claim accrued or 5 years after peace is established, whichever is later.

(iii) Claims under 10 U.S.C. 2575(d)(3) must be received within 5 years after the date of the disposal of the property to which the claim relates.

(iv) Claims under 24 U.S.C. 420(d)(1), 10 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. 9712 must be received within 6 years after the death of the deceased resident.

(v) Claims under 37 U.S.C. 554(h) must be received before the end of the 5-year period from the date the net proceeds from the sale of the missing person's personal property are covered into the Treasury.

(2) The time limits set by statute may not be extended or waived.Although the issue of timeliness normally shall be raised upon initial submission (as explained at Appendix D to this part, paragraph (b)), the issue may be raised at any point during the claim settlement process.
