
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 282 - PROCEDURES FOR SETTLING PERSONNEL AND GENERAL CLAIMS AND PROCESSING ADVANCE DECISION REQUESTS
###### Appendix E to Part 282 - Appeals
####### Component's Review.

(d)The Component concerned must review a claimant's appeal, and affirm, modify, or reverse the initial determination.

(1) If the appeal concerns the denial of all or part of the claim and the Component grants the entire claim, or grants the claim to the extent requested in the appeal, the Component must notify the claimant in writing and explain the action the Component shall take on the claim. This is a final action.

(2) If the appeal concerns the untimely receipt of the claim and the Component determines that the claim was received within the time limit required by statute, the Component must notify the claimant in writing and process the claim on the merits.

(3) In all other cases, the Component must forward the appeal to the DOHA in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Appendix. If the appeal concerns an initial determination of untimely receipt, the Component should not investigate, or issue an initial determination concerning, the merits of the claim before forwarding the appeal. The Component must prepare a recommendation and administrative report (as explained in paragraph (f) of this Appendix). The Component must send a copy of the administrative report to the claimant, with a notice that the claimant may submit a rebuttal to the Component (as explained in paragraph (g) of this Appendix).
