
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 282 - PROCEDURES FOR SETTLING PERSONNEL AND GENERAL CLAIMS AND PROCESSING ADVANCE DECISION REQUESTS
###### Appendix F to Part 282 - Requests for an Advance Decision
####### Advance Decisions.

(e)The GC, DoD must take action under paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3) of this Appendix, whichever applies.

(1) If the request is described in paragraph (b)(1) of this Appendix, the GC, DoD must review the request and issue an advance decision, unless the GC, DoD elects to proceed under paragraph (e)(3) of this Appendix.

(i) The GC, DoD must send the decision, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the requester, and must send a copy of the decision to the Director, DOHA for publication according to Appendix A to this part, paragraph (f).

(ii) The decision is controlling in the case; the reliance of certifying and disbursing officials on it in their disposition of the case is evidence that those officials have exercised due diligence in the performance of their duties.

(iii) An advance decision is precedent in similar claims under this part unless otherwise stated in the decision.

(2) If the request is not described in paragraph (b)(1) of this Appendix, the GC, DoD must review the request and either:

(i) Forward the request to the appropriate advance decision authority and notify the requester of that action; or

(ii) Return the request, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the requester, with a memorandum explaining that under existing legal authorities a request for an advance decision is not necessary. After considering the memorandum, the requester may resubmit the request, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the GC, DoD. The GC, DoD must forward the request to the appropriate advance decision authority, and notify the requester of that action.

(3) If the request is described in paragraph (b)(1) of this Appendix, and the claim is for not more than $250, the GC, DoD may refer the request to the General Counsel, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS). The General Counsel, DFAS, shall review the request and issue an advance decision.

(i) The General Counsel, DFAS, must send the decision, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the requester, and must send a copy of the decision to the GC, DoD.

(ii) The decision is controlling in the case; the reliance of certifying and disbursing officials on it in their disposition of the case is evidence that those officials have exercised due diligence in the performance of their duties.

(iii) An advance decision issued by the General Counsel, DFAS, under this paragraph is not precedent in similar claims under this part.
