
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 284 - WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR DEBTS RESULTING FROM ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES
###### Appendix A to Part 284 - Overview of Waiver Application Process

The standards that must be applied in determining whether all or part of a waiver application should be granted or denied are at Appendix B to this part.

The DoD Components shall ensure, if applicable, the submission and filing of waiver applications/appeals satisfy the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The procedures an applicant must follow to submit a waiver application are at Appendix C to this part.

The procedures a DoD Component must follow in processing a waiver application when the debt is $1,500 or less are at Appendix D to this part.

The procedures a DoD Component must follow in processing a waiver application when the debt is more than $1,500 are at Appendix E to this part.

The DoD Components shall ensure, if applicable, the submission and filing of waiver applications/appeals satisfy the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a. The procedures for appealing initial determinations are at Appendix F to this part.

When a final action waives all or part of a debt that has been repaid, the waiver application shall be interpreted as an application for a refund and the Component concerned shall, to the extent of the waiver, refund the amount repaid.

The Director, DOHA or designee shall make redacted copies of responses to requests for reconsideration available for public inspection and copying at the DOHA's public reading room and on the worldwide web according to 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a.
