
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 284 - WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR DEBTS RESULTING FROM ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES
###### Appendix B to Part 284 - Standards for Waiver Determinations

1. Generally, persons who receive a payment erroneously from the Government acquire no right to the money. They are bound in equity and good conscience to make restitution. If a benefit is bestowed by mistake, no matter how careless the act of the Government may have been, the recipient must make restitution. In theory, restitution results in no loss to the recipient because the recipient received something for nothing. However, 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, and 5 U.S.C. 5584 provide authority to waive, under certain conditions debts individuals owe the Government that are the result of erroneous payments of pay and allowances (including travel and transportation allowances). A waiver is not a matter of right. It is available to provide relief as a matter of equity, if the circumstances warrant.

2. Debts may be waived only when collection would be against equity and good conscience and would not be in the best interests of the United States. There must be no indication the erroneous payment was solely or partially the result of the fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith of the applicant.

3. The fact that an erroneous payment is solely the result of administrative error or mistake on the part of the Government is not sufficient basis in and of itself for granting a waiver.

4. A waiver usually is not appropriate when a recipient knows, or reasonably should know, that a payment is erroneous. The recipient has a duty to notify an appropriate official and to set aside the funds for eventual repayment to the Government, even if the Government fails to act after such notification.

5. A waiver generally is not appropriate when a recipient of a significant unexplained increase in pay or allowances, or of any other unexplained payment of pay or allowances, does not attempt to obtain a reasonable explanation from an appropriate official. The recipient has a duty to ascertain the reason for the payment and to set aside the funds in the event that repayment should be necessary.

6. A waiver may be inappropriate in cases where a recipient questions a payment (which ultimately is determined to be erroneous) and is mistakenly advised by an appropriate official that the payment is proper, if under the circumstances the recipient knew or reasonably should have known that the advice was erroneous.

7. Financial hardship is not a factor for consideration in determining whether a waiver is appropriate.

8. Waiver determinations under these standards depend on the facts in each case.
