
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 284 - WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR DEBTS RESULTING FROM ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES
###### Appendix D to Part 284 - Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt Is $1,500 or Less
####### see

ii. If the Component does not reverse the finding of untimely receipt, the Component must forward the record, including the application, notice of untimely receipt, and rebuttal, to the appropriate determining official (paragraph C.1. to this Appendix) for an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt. The Component does not need to investigate the merits of the application before forwarding the record.

5. After making an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt, the determining official must follow the procedures in paragraph D to this Appendix. In addition, if the determining official finds that the application was timely, the official may:

i. Return the application to the Component concerned for processing on its merits according to this part, or

ii. Consider the application and make an initial determination on its merits according to paragraph C.2. to this Appendix.

The standards in Appendix B to this part must be applied when considering the merits of a waiver application. After making an initial determination, the determining official must follow the procedures at paragraph D to this Appendix.

1. The officials listed and referred to in this part as determining officials shall consider waiver applications and take the appropriate action described in paragraph C.2. to this Appendix. These officials are identified as follows:

i. The Head of a non-DoD Component or designee for debts of Uniformed Services personnel resulting from that Component's activity.

ii. The Director, DoDEA or designee for debts of civilian employees resulting from that Component's activity.

iii. The Director, NSA or designee for debts resulting from that Component's activity.

iv. The Director, DFAS or designee for debts resulting from the DoD Component activity not included in paragraphs C.1.ii. and C.1.iii. to this Appendix.

2. The officials listed in paragraph C.1. to this Appendix may make an initial determination for the following:

i. Whether or not a waiver application was received within three years after the discovery of the erroneous payment.

ii. Deny a waiver application in its entirety.

iii. Grant all or part of a waiver application.

After making an initial determination, the determining official must:

1. Notify the applicant. The notification must explain:

i. The determination and the reasons for it.

ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination if it is or becomes a final action (the finality of an initial determination is explained at paragraph E to this Appendix).

iii. The appeal process (as explained in Appendix F to this part) if the determination does not grant the entire application or does not contain a finding of timely receipt.

2. Notify the Component concerned if the determining official is not an official of the Component concerned when and if the determination is a final action. The notice must explain:

i. The determination and its reasons.

ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination.

A final action is an initial determination that grants the entire waiver application or finds that the application was timely received. Also, an initial determination (including one of untimely receipt) is a final action if the determining official does not receive an appeal within 30 days of the date of the initial determination (plus any extension of up to 30 additional days granted by the determining official for good cause shown).
