
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 284 - WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR DEBTS RESULTING FROM ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES
###### Appendix E to Part 284 - Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt Is More Than $1,500
####### see

4. Refer the waiver application to the appropriate determining official (paragraph C to this Appendix) who after applying the standards in Appendix B in this part may either:

i. Deny the application in its entirety, if appropriate, and follow the procedures in Appendix D to this part, or

ii. Refer the application with a recommendation that part or all of the application be granted to the DOHA for consideration and an initial determination under paragraph C to this Appendix. The determining official must send the entire record and prepare and submit a recommendation and administrative report (as explained in paragraphs D and E to this Appendix) with the application.

When the Component concerned determines that a waiver application was not received within three years after the erroneous payment was discovered, the Component must send the applicant a notice of untimely receipt.

1. The notice must:

i. Cite the applicable statute and explain the reasons for the finding of untimely receipt.

ii. State that the application was not received within the statutory time limit and may not be considered unless that finding is reversed on appeal.

iii. Explain that the applicant may submit a rebuttal to the finding of untimely receipt (as explained in paragraph B.2. to this Appendix.).

iv. State that the statutory time limit may not be extended or waived.

2. An applicant may submit a written rebuttal, signed by the applicant or the applicant's agent or attorney, to a notice of untimely receipt. The Component concerned must receive the rebuttal within 30 days of the date of the notice and may grant an extension of up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. The rebuttal should:

i. Explain the points of, and reasons for, disagreement with the notice.

ii. Have any documents referred to in the rebuttal attached.

iii. Include or have attached statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) by the applicant or other persons in support of the rebuttal.

3. If the applicant does not submit a rebuttal within the time permitted, the notice of untimely receipt is a final action and the Component must return the application to the applicant with a notice that the finding is final and the application may not be considered.

4. If the applicant submits a timely rebuttal, the Component must consider the rebuttal:

i. If the Component finds that the application was received within the required time limit, the Component must reverse its finding of untimely receipt, notify the applicant in writing, and process the application on its merits.
