
# Title 32 - National Defense
## Subtitle A - Department of Defense
### Chapter I - Office of the Secretary of Defense
#### Subchapter M - Miscellaneous
##### PART 284 - WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR DEBTS RESULTING FROM ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES
###### Appendix E to Part 284 - Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt Is More Than $1,500
####### see

ii. If the Component does not reverse the finding of untimely receipt, the Component must forward the record, including the application, notice of untimely receipt, and rebuttal, to the appropriate determining official (paragraph C.1. of Appendix D to this part) for an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt. The Component does not need to investigate the merits of the application before forwarding the record.

5. After making an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt, the determining official must follow the procedures in Appendix D to this part. In addition, if the determining official finds that the application was timely, the official may:

i. Return the application to the Component concerned for processing on the merits according to this part, or

ii. Make a recommendation to the DOHA to grant all or part of the application as described in paragraph D to this Appendix.

The standards in Appendix B to this part must be applied when considering the merits of a waiver application. After making an initial determination, the DOHA must follow the procedures at paragraph F to this Appendix and may take the following actions regarding waiver applications referred under paragraph A.4.ii. or B.5.ii. to this Appendix:

1. Make an initial determination denying a waiver application in its entirety; or

2. Make an initial determination granting all or part of a waiver application.

Referrals to the DOHA must include the entire record along with the recommendation and administrative report described in paragraph E to this Appendix. The record and the report must be sent to: Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals, Claims Division, P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, VA 22203-1995.

The recommendation and administrative report required by paragraph D to this Appendix must describe the recommended action (and its reasons) and the following:

1. The names and mailing addresses of each employee, member, or other person from whom collection is sought, or a statement that the person cannot reasonably be located.

2. The aggregate amount of the debt, including an itemization showing the elements of the aggregate amount.

3. The date the erroneous payment was discovered.

4. The date the recipient was notified of the error and a statement of the erroneous amounts paid before and after receipt of such notice.

5. A summary of the facts and circumstances describing how the erroneous payment occurred; the recipient's knowledge of the erroneous nature of the payment; the steps taken by the recipient to bring the matter to the attention of the appropriate official; and the Component's response, if any.

6. A finding of whether there is any indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the applicant and the reasons for such a finding.

7. Legible copies or the originals of supporting documents, such as leave and earnings statements, notifications of personnel actions, travel authorizations and vouchers, and military orders.

8. Statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) of the applicant or other persons in support of the application.

After making an initial determination, the DOHA must:

1. Notify the applicant if all or part of the waiver application is denied. The notification must explain:

i. The determination and the reasons for it.

ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination if it is or becomes a final action (the finality of an initial determination is explained at paragraph G to this Appendix).

iii. The appeal process (as explained in Appendix F to this part) if the determination does not grant the entire application or does not contain a finding of timely receipt.

2. Notify the Component concerned when and if the determination is a final action. The notice must explain:

i. The determination and its the reasons.

ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination.

A final action is an initial determination that grants the entire waiver application or finds that the application was timely received. Also, an initial determination (including one of untimely receipt) is a final action if the determining official does not receive an appeal within 30 days of the date of the initial determination (plus any extension of up to 30 additional days granted by the determining official for good cause shown).
