
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 72 - PROCEDURES AND FEES FOR PROCESSING MAP CHANGES
##### ยง 72.4 Submittal/payment procedures and FEMA response.

(a) The initial fee shall be submitted with a request for FEMA review and processing of CLOMRs, LOMRs, and PMRs based on structural measures on alluvial fans; the appropriate flat user fee shall be submitted with all other requests for FEMA review and processing.

(b) FEMA must receive initial or flat user fees before it will begin any review. The fee is non-refundable once FEMA begins its review.

(c) Following completion of FEMA's review for any CLOMR, LOMR, or PMR based on structural measures on alluvial fans, FEMA shall invoice the requester at the established hourly rate for any actual costs exceeding the initial fee incurred for review and processing. FEMA shall not issue a determination letter or revised map panel(s) until it receives the invoiced amount.

(d) For all map revision requests, FEMA shall bear the cost of reprinting and distributing the revised FIRM panel(s), FBFM panel(s), or combination.

(e) The entity that applies to FEMA through the local community for review is responsible for the cost of the review. The local community incurs no financial obligation under the reimbursement procedures of this part when another party sends the application to FEMA.

(f) Requesters shall submit payments by check or money order or by credit card. Checks or money orders, in U.S. funds, shall be made payable to the National Flood Insurance Program.

(g) For CLOMA, CLOMR-F, LOMA, and LOMR-F requests, FEMA shall:

(1) Notify the requester and community within 30 days as to the adequacy of the submittal, and

(2) Provide to the requester and the community, within 60 days of receipt of adequate information and fee, a determination letter or other written comment in response to the request.

(h) For CLOMR, LOMR, and PMR requests, FEMA shall:

(1) Notify the requester and community within 60 days as to the adequacy of the submittal; and

(2) Provide to the requester and the community, within 90 days of receipt of adequate information and fee, a CLOMR, a LOMR, other written comment in response to the request, or preliminary copies of the revised FIRM panels, FBFM panels, and/or affected portions of the FIS report for review and comment.
