
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 75 - EXEMPTION OF STATE-OWNED PROPERTIES UNDER SELF-INSURANCE PLAN
##### Subpart B - Standards for Exemption
###### ยง 75.11 Standards.

(a) In order to be exempt under this part, the State's self-insurance plan shall, as a minimum:

(1) Constitute a formal policy or plan of self-insurance created by statute or regulation authorized pursuant to statute.

(2) Specify that the hazards covered by the self-insurance plan expressly include the flood and flood-related hazards which are covered under the Standard Flood Insurance Policy.

(3) Provide coverage to state-owned structures and their contents equal to that which would otherwise be available under a Standard Flood Insurance Policy.

(4) Consist of a self-insurance fund, or a commercial policy of insurance or reinsurance, for which provision is made in statute or regulation and that is funded by periodic premiums or charges allocated for state-owned structures and their contents in areas identified by the Federal Insurance Administrator as A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, M, V, VO, V1-30, VE, and E Zones. The person or persons responsible for such self-insurance fund shall report on its status to the chief executive authority of the State, or to the legislature, or both, not less frequently than annually. The loss experience shall be shown for each calendar or fiscal year from inception to current date based upon loss and loss adjustment expense incurred during each separate calendar or fiscal year compared to the premiums or charges for each of the respective calendar or fiscal years. Such incurred losses shall be reported in aggregate by cause of loss under a loss coding system adequate, as a minimum, to identify and isolate loss caused by flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or flood-related erosion. The Federal Insurance Administrator may, subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section, accept and approve in lieu of, and as the reasonable equivalent of the self-insurance fund, an enforceable commitment of funds by the State, the enforceability of which shall be certified to by the State's Attorney General, or other principal legal officer. Such funds, or enforceable commitment of funds in amounts not less than the limits of coverage that would be applicable under Standard Flood Insurance Policies, shall be used by the State for the repair or restoration of State-owned structures and their contents damaged as a result of flood-related losses occurring in areas identified by the Federal Insurance Administrator as A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, M, V, VO, V1-30, VE, and E Zones.

(5) Provide for the maintaining and updating by a designated State official or agency not less frequently than annually of an inventory of all State-owned structures and their contents within A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, M, V, VO, V1-30, VE, and E zones. The inventory shall:

(i) Include the location of individual structures;

(ii) Include an estimate of the current replacement costs of such structures and their contents, or of their current economic value; and

(iii) Include an estimate of the anticipated annual loss due to flood damage.

(6) Provide the flood loss experience for State-owned structures and their contents based upon incurred losses for a period of not less than the 5 years immediately preceding application for exemption, and certify that such historical information shall be maintained and updated.

(7) Include, pursuant to ยง 60.12 of this subchapter, a certified copy of the flood plain management regulations setting forth standards for State-owned properties within A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, M, V, VO, V1-30, VE, and E Zones.

(b) The Federal Insurance Administrator shall determine the adequacy of the insurance provisions whether they be based on available funds, an enforceable commitment of funds, commercial insurance, or some combination thereof, but has discretion to waive specific requirements under this part.
