
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 6 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart G - Exempt Systems of Records
###### ยง 6.87 Specific exemptions.
####### Reasons for exemptions.

(2)All information about individuals in these records that meet the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (d). These provisions of the Privacy Act relate to making accountings of disclosure available to the subject and access to and amendment of records. These exemptions are claimed because the system of records entitled, FEMA/SEC-1, Security Management Information System, contains investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for access to classified information or classified Federal contracts, but only to the extent that the disclosure would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. During the litigation process and investigations, it is possible that certain records from the system of records entitled, FEMA/SEC-1, Security Management System may be necessary and relevant to the litigation or investigation and included in these systems of records. To the extent that this occurs, the Administrator, FEMA, has determined that the records would also be exempted from subsections (c)(3) and (d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) to protect such records. A determination will be made at the time of the request for a record concerning whether specific information would reveal the identity of a source. This exemption is required in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of information compiled for the purpose of determining access to classified information. This confidentiality helps maintain the Government's continued access to information from persons who would otherwise refuse to give it.
