
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 80 - PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND RELOCATION FOR OPEN SPACE
##### Subpart C - Post-Award Requirements
###### ยง 80.19 Land use and oversight.
####### Subsequent transfer.

(b)After acquiring the property interest, the subrecipient, including successors in interest, will convey any interest in the property only if the Regional Administrator, through the State, gives prior written approval of the transferee in accordance with this paragraph.

(1) The request by the subrecipient, through the State, to the Regional Administrator must include a signed statement from the proposed transferee that it acknowledges and agrees to be bound by the terms of this section, and documentation of its status as a qualified conservation organization if applicable.

(2) The subrecipient may convey a property interest only to a public entity or to a qualified conservation organization. However, the subrecipient may convey an easement or lease to a private individual or entity for purposes compatible with the uses described in paragraph (a) of this section, with the prior approval of the Regional Administrator, and so long as the conveyance does not include authority to control and enforce the terms and conditions of this section.

(3) If title to the property is transferred to a public entity other than one with a conservation mission, it must be conveyed subject to a conservation easement that must be recorded with the deed and must incorporate all terms and conditions set forth in this section, including the easement holder's responsibility to enforce the easement. This must be accomplished by one of the following means:

(i) The subrecipient will convey, in accordance with this paragraph (b), a conservation easement to an entity other than the title holder, which must be recorded with the deed, or

(ii) At the time of title transfer, the subrecipient will retain such conservation easement, and record it with the deed.

(4) Conveyance of any property interest must reference and incorporate the original deed restrictions providing notice of the conditions in this section and must incorporate a provision for the property interest to revert to the subrecipient or recipient in the event that the transferee ceases to exist or loses its eligible status under this section.
