
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 80 - PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND RELOCATION FOR OPEN SPACE
##### Subpart C - Post-Award Requirements
###### ยง 80.19 Land use and oversight.
####### Enforcement.

(e)The subrecipient, recipient, FEMA, and their respective representatives, successors and assigns, are responsible for taking measures to bring the property back into compliance if the property is not maintained according to the terms of this part, the conveyance, and the grant award. The relative rights and responsibilities of FEMA, the recipient, the subrecipient, and subsequent holders of the property interest at the time of enforcement, include the following:

(1) The recipient will notify the subrecipient and any current holder of the property interest in writing and advise them that they have 60 days to correct the violation. If the subrecipient or any current holder of the property interest fails to demonstrate a good faith effort to come into compliance with the terms of the grant within the 60-day period, the recipient will enforce the terms of the grant by taking any measures it deems appropriate, including but not limited to bringing an action at law or in equity in a court of competent jurisdiction.

(2) FEMA, its representatives, and assignees may enforce the terms of the grant by taking any measures it deems appropriate, including but not limited to 1 or more of the following:

(i) Withholding FEMA mitigation awards or assistance from the State and subrecipient; and current holder of the property interest.

(ii) Requiring transfer of title. The subrecipient or the current holder of the property interest will bear the costs of bringing the property back into compliance with the terms of the grant; or

(iii) Bringing an action at law or in equity in a court of competent jurisdiction against any or all of the following parties: The recipient, the subrecipient, and their respective successors.
