
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 201 - MITIGATION PLANNING
##### ยง 201.7 Tribal Mitigation Plans.
###### risk assessment

(2) Athat provides the factual basis for activities proposed in the strategy to reduce losses from identified hazards. Tribal risk assessments must provide sufficient information to enable the Indian Tribal government to identify and prioritize appropriate mitigation actions to reduce losses from identified hazards. The risk assessment must include:

(i) A description of the type, location, and extent of all natural hazards that can affect the Tribal planning area. The plan must include information on previous occurrences of hazard events and on the probability of future hazard events.

(ii) A description of the Indian Tribal government's vulnerability to the hazards described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. This description must include an overall summary of each hazard and its impact on the Tribe. The plan should describe vulnerability in terms of:

(A) The types and numbers of existing and future buildings, infrastructure, and critical facilities located in the identified hazard areas;

(B) An estimate of the potential dollar losses to vulnerable structures identified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and a description of the methodology used to prepare the estimate;

(C) A general description of land uses and development trends within the Tribal planning area so that mitigation options can be considered in future land use decisions; and

(D) Cultural and sacred sites that are significant, even if they cannot be valued in monetary terms.
