
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 201 - MITIGATION PLANNING
##### ยง 201.7 Tribal Mitigation Plans.
###### plan maintenance process

(4) Athat includes:

(i) A section describing the method and schedule of monitoring, evaluating, and updating the mitigation plan.

(ii) A system for monitoring implementation of mitigation measures and project closeouts.

(iii) A process by which the Indian Tribal government incorporates the requirements of the mitigation plan into other planning mechanisms such as reservation master plans or capital improvement plans, when appropriate.

(iv) Discussion on how the Indian Tribal government will continue public participation in the plan maintenance process.

(v) A system for reviewing progress on achieving goals as well as activities and projects identified in the mitigation strategy.

(5) The plan must be formally adopted by the governing body of the Indian Tribal government prior to submittal to FEMA for final review and approval.

(6) The plan must include assurances that the Indian Tribal government will comply with all applicable Federal statutes and regulations in effect with respect to the periods for which it receives grant funding, including 2 CFR parts 200 and 3002. The Indian Tribal government will amend its plan whenever necessary to reflect changes in Tribal or Federal laws and statutes.
