
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 204 - FIRE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Eligibility
###### ยง 204.42 Eligible costs.
####### Equipment and supplies.

(b)Eligible costs include:

(1) Personal comfort and safety items normally provided by the State under field conditions for firefighter health and safety.

(2) Firefighting supplies, tools, materials, expended or lost, to the extent not covered by reasonable insurance, will be replaced with comparable items.

(3) Operation and maintenance costs of publicly owned, contracted, rented, or volunteer firefighting department equipment used in eligible firefighting activities to the extent any of these costs are not included in applicable equipment rates.

(4) Use of U.S. Government-owned equipment based on reasonable costs as billed by the Federal agency and paid by the State. (Only direct costs for use of Federal Excess Personal Property (FEPP) vehicles and equipment on loan to State Forestry and local cooperators may be eligible.)

(5) Repair of equipment damaged in firefighting activities to the extent not covered by reasonable insurance. FEMA will use the lowest applicable equipment rates, or other rates that FEMA determines, to calculate the eligible cost of repairs.

(6) Replacement of equipment lost or destroyed in firefighting activities, to the extent not covered by reasonable insurance, will be replaced with comparable equipment.
