
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 204 - FIRE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart C - Eligibility
###### ยง 204.42 Eligible costs.
####### Pre-positioning costs.

(e)(1) The actual costs of pre-positioning Federal, out-of-State (including compact), and international resources for a limited period may be eligible when those resources are used in response to a declared fire.

(2) The Regional Administrator must approve all pre-positioning costs.

(i) Upon approval of a State's request for a fire management assistance declaration by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate , the State should immediately notify the Regional Administrator of its intention to seek funding for pre-positioning resources.

(ii) The State must document the number of pre-positioned resources to be funded and their respective locations throughout the State, estimate the cost of the pre-positioned resources that were used on the declared fire and the amount of time the resources were pre-positioned, and provide a detailed explanation of the need to fund the pre-positioned resources.

(iii) The State will base the detailed explanation on recognized scientific indicators, that include, but are not limited to, drought indices, short-term weather forecasts, the current number of fires burning in the State, and the availability of in-State firefighting resources. The State may also include other quantitative indicators with which to measure the increased risk of the threat of a major disaster.

(iv) Based on the information contained in the State's notification, the Regional Administrator will determine the number of days of pre-positioning to be approved for Federal funding, up to a maximum of 21 days before the fire declaration.

(3) Upon rendering his/her determination on pre-positioning costs, the Regional Administrator will notify the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate of his/her determination.
