
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 204 - FIRE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Application Procedures
###### ยง 204.51 Application and approval procedures for a fire management assistance grant.
####### Fire cost threshold.

(b)(1) FEMA will approve the initial grant award to the State when FEMA determines that the State's application demonstrates either of the following:

(i) Total eligible costs for the declared fire meet or exceed the individual fire cost threshold; or

(ii) Total costs of all declared and non-declared fires for which a State has assumed responsibility in a given calendar year meet the cumulative fire cost threshold.

(2) The individual fire cost threshold for a State is the greater of the following:

(i) $100,000; or

(ii) Five percent x $1.07 x the State population, adjusted annually for inflation using the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published annually by the Department of Labor.

(3) The cumulative fire cost threshold for a State is the greater of the following:

(i) $500,000; or

(ii) Three times the five percent x $1.07 x the State population as described in ยง 204.51(b)(2)(ii).

(4) States must document the total eligible costs for a declared fire on Project Worksheets, which they must submit with the grant application.

(5) FEMA will not consider the costs of pre-positioning resources for the purposes of determining whether the grant application meets the fire cost threshold.

(6) When the State's total eligible costs associated with the fire management assistance declaration meet or exceed the fire cost threshold eligible costs will be cost shared in accordance with ยง 204.61.
