
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 206.8 Reimbursement of other Federal agencies.
####### Expenditures eligible for reimbursement.

(c)The Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director may approve reimbursement of the following costs which are incurred in providing requested assistance.

(1) Overtime, travel, and per diem of permanent Federal agency personnel.

(2) Wages, travel, and per diem of temporary Federal agency personnel assigned solely to performance of services directed by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director in the major disaster or emergency area designated by the Regional Director.

(3) Travel and per diem of Federal military personnel assigned solely to the performance of services directed by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director in the major disaster or emergency area designated by the Regional Director.

(4) Cost of work, services, and materials procured under contract for the purposes of providing assistance directed by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director.

(5) Cost of materials, equipment, and supplies (including transportation, repair, and maintenance) from regular stocks used in providing directed assistance.

(6) All costs incurred which are paid from trust, revolving, or other funds, and whose reimbursement is required by law.

(7) Other costs submitted by an agency with written justification or otherwise agreed to in writing by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director and the agency.
