
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 206.8 Reimbursement of other Federal agencies.
####### Procedures for reimbursement.

(d)Federal agencies performing work under a mission assignment will submit requests for reimbursement, as follows:

(1) Federal agencies may submit requests for reimbursement of amounts greater than $1,000 at any time. Requests for lesser amounts may be submitted only quarterly. An agency shall submit a final accounting of expenditures after completion of the agency's work under each directive for assistance. The time limit and method for submission of reimbursement requests will be stipulated in the mission assignment letter.

(2) An agency shall document its request for reimbursement with specific details on personnel services, travel, and all other expenses by object class as specified in OMB Circular A-12 and by any other subobject class used in the agency's accounting system. Where contracts constitute a significant portion of the billings, the agency shall provide a listing of individual contracts and their associated costs.

(3) Reimbursement requests shall cite the specific mission assignment under which the work was performed, and the major disaster or emergency identification number. Requests for reimbursement of costs incurred under more than one mission assignment may not be combined for billing purposes.

(4) Unless otherwise agreed, an agency shall direct all requests for reimbursement to the Regional Administrator of the region in which the costs were incurred.

(5) A Federal agency requesting reimbursement shall retain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other records pertinent to the provision of services or use of resources by that agency. These materials shall be accessible to duly authorized representatives of FEMA and the U.S. Comptroller General, for the purpose of making audits, excerpts, and transcripts, for a period of 3 years starting from the date of submission of the final billing.
