
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart B - The Declaration Process
###### ยง 206.35 Requests for emergency declarations.

(a) When an incident occurs or threatens to occur in a State, which would not qualify under the definition of a major disaster, the Governor of a State, or the Acting Governor in his/her absence, may request that the President declare an emergency. The Governor should submit the request to the President through the appropriate Regional Administrator to ensure prompt acknowledgment and processing. The request must be submitted within 5 days after the need for assistance under title V becomes apparent, but no longer than 30 days after the occurrence of the incident, in order to be considered. The period may be extended by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate provided that a written request for such extension is made by the Governor, or Acting Governor, during the 30-day period immediately following the incident. The extension request must stipulate the reason for the delay.

(b) The basis for the Governor's request must be the finding that the situation:

(1) Is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capability of the State and the affected local government(s); and

(2) Requires supplementary Federal emergency assistance to save lives and to protect property, public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of a disaster.

(c) In addition to the above findings, the complete request shall include:

(1) Confirmation that the Governor has taken appropriate action under State law and directed the execution of the State emergency plan;

(2) Information describing the State and local efforts and resources which have been or will be used to alleviate the emergency;

(3) Information describing other Federal agency efforts and resources which have been or will be used in responding to this incident; and

(4) Identification of the type and extent of additional Federal aid required.
