
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart B - The Declaration Process
###### ยง 206.48 Factors considered when evaluating a Governor's request for a major disaster declaration.
####### Disaster impacted population profile.

(3)The demographics of a disaster impacted population may identify additional needs that require a more robust community response and delay a community's ability to recover from a disaster. FEMA will consider demographics of the impacted communities for the following data points as reported by the U.S. Census Bureau or other Federal agencies:

(i) The percentage of the population for whom poverty status is determined.

(ii) The percentage of the population already receiving government assistance such as Supplemental Security Income and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits.

(iii) The pre-disaster unemployment rate.

(iv) The percentage of the population that is 65 years old and older.

(v) The percentage of the population 18 years old and younger.

(vi) The percentage of the population with a disability.

(vii) The percentage of the population who speak a language other than English and speak English less than "very well."

(viii) Any unique considerations regarding American Indian and Alaskan Native Tribal populations raised in the State's request for a major disaster declaration that may not be reflected in the data points referenced in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.
