
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.101 Temporary housing assistance for emergencies and major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Transient accommodations.

(ii)Immediately following a Presidentially declared major disaster or emergency, disaster victims are expected to stay with family or friends without FEMA assistance, or to make use of mass shelters to the fullest extent possible for short-term housing. Transient accommodations may be provided when individual circumstances warrant such assistance for only a short period of time or pending provision of other temporary housing resources. Transient accommodations may be provided for up to 30 days unless this period is extended by the Regional Administrator. Authorized expenditures for transient accommodations shall be restricted to the rental cost including utilities except for those which are separately metered. Payment for food, telephone, or other similar services is not authorized under this section.

(2) Mobile homes, travel trailers, and other manufactured housing units. Government-owned or privately owned mobile homes, travel trailers, and other manufactured housing units may be placed on commercial, private, or group sites. The placement must comply with applicable State and local codes and ordinances as well as FEMA'S regulations at 44 CFR part 9, Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands, and the regulations at 44 CFR part 10, Environmental Considerations.

(i) A commercial site is a site customarily leased for a fee because it is fully equipped to accommodate a housing unit. In accordance with section 408(a)(2)(B), the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate has determined that leasing commercial sites at Federal expense is in the public interest. When the Regional Administrator determines that upgrading of commercial sites or installation of utilities on such sites will provide more cost-effective, timely, and suitable temporary housing than other types of resources, they may authorize such action at Federal expense.

(ii) A private site is a site provided or obtained by the applicant at no cost to the Federal Government. Also in accordance with section 408(a)(2)(B), the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate has determined that the cost of installation or repairs of essential utilities on private sites is authorized at Federal expense when such actions will provide more cost-effective, timely, and suitable temporary housing than other types of resources.

(iii) A group site is a site which accommodates two or more units. In accordance with section 408(a)(2)(A), locations for group sites shall be provided by State or local government complete with utilities. However, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may authorize development of group sites, including installation of essential utilities, by the Federal Government, based on a recommendation from the Regional Administrator; provided, however, that the Federal expense is limited to 75 percent of the cost of construction and development (including installation of utilities). In accordance with section 408(a)(4) of the Stafford Act, the State or local government shall pay any cost which is not paid for from the Federal share, including long-term site maintenance such as snow removal, street repairs and other services of a governmental nature.
