
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.101 Temporary housing assistance for emergencies and major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Temporary mortgage and rental payments.

(3)Assistance in the form of mortgage or rental payments may be paid to or be provided on behalf of eligible applicants who, as a result of a major disaster or emergency, have received written notice of dispossession or eviction from their primary residence by foreclosure of any mortgage or lien, cancellation of any contract of sale, or termination of any lease entered into prior to the disaster. Written notice, for the purpose of this paragraph, means a communication in writing by a landlord, mortgage holder, or other party authorized under State law to file such notice. The purpose of such notice is to notify a person of impending termination of a lease, foreclosure of a mortgage or lien, or cancellation of any contract of sale, which would result in the person's dispossession or eviction. Applications for this type of assistance may be filed for up to 6 months following the date of declaration. This assistance may be provided for a period not to exceed 18 months or for the duration of the period of financial hardship, as determined by the Regional Administrator, whichever is less. The location of the residence of an applicant for assistance under this section shall not be a consideration of eligibility.
