
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.101 Temporary housing assistance for emergencies and major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Scope of work.

(iii)The type of repair or replacement authorized may vary depending upon the nature of the disaster. Items will be repaired where feasible or replaced only when necessary to insure the safety or health of the occupant. Replacement items shall be of average quality, size, and capacity taking into consideration the needs of the occupant. Repairs shall be disaster related and shall be limited to:

(A) Repairs to the plumbing system, including repairs to or replacement of fixtures, providing service to the kitchen and one bathroom;

(B) Repairs to the electrical system providing service to essential living areas, including repairs to or replacement of essential fixtures;

(C) Repairs to the heating unit, including repairs to duct work, vents, and integral fuel and electrical systems. If repair or replacement through other forms of assistance cannot be accomplished before the start of the season requiring heat, home repairs may be authorized by the Regional Administrator when an inspection shows that the unit has been damaged beyond repair, or when the availability of necessary parts or components makes repair impossible;

(D) Repairs to or replacement of essential components of the fuel system to provide for cooking;

(E) Pumping and cleaning of the septic system, repairs to or replacement of the tank, drainfield, or repairs to sewer lines;

(F) Flushing and/or purifying the water well, and repairs to or replacement of the pump, controls, tank, and pipes;

(G) Repairs to or replacement of exterior doors, repair of windows and/or screens needed for health purposes;

(H) Repairs to the roof, when the damages affect the essential living area;

(I) Repairs to interior floors, when severe buckling or deterioration creates a serious safety hazard;

(J) Blocking, leveling, and anchoring of a mobile home; and reconnecting and/or resetting mobile home sewer, water, electrical and fuel lines, and tanks;

(K) Emergency repairs to private access routes, limited to those repairs that meet the minimum safety standards and using the most economical materials available. Such repairs are provided on a one-time basis when no alternative access facilities are immediately available and when the repairs are more cost effective, timely or otherwise suitable than other forms of temporary housing.

(L) Repairs to the foundation piers, walls or footings when the damages affect the structural integrity of the essential living area;

(M) Repairs to the stove and refrigerator, when feasible; and

(N) Elimination of other health and safety hazards or performance of essential repairs which are authorized by the Regional Administrator as not available through emergency services provided by voluntary or community agencies, and cannot reasonably be expected to be completed on a timely basis by the occupant without FEMA assistance.

(iv) Requirements of the Flood Disaster Protection Act. FEMA has determined that flood insurance purchase requirements need not be imposed as a condition of receiving assistance under paragraph (g)(4) of this section. Repair recipients will normally receive assistance for further repairs from other programs which will impose the purchase and maintenance requirements. Home repairs may not be provided in Zones A or V of a sanctioned or suspended community except for items that are not covered by flood insurance.
