
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.101 Temporary housing assistance for emergencies and major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Appeals.

(m)Occupants shall have the right to appeal a program determination in accordance with the following:

(1) An applicant declared ineligible for temporary housing assistance, an applicant whose application has been cancelled for cause, an applicant whose application has been refused because of late filing, and an occupant who received a direct housing payment but is not eligible for continued assistance in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section, shall have the right to dispute such a determination within 60 calendar days following notification of such action. The Regional Administrator shall reconsider the original decision within 15 calendar days after its receipt. The appellant shall be given a written notice of the disposition of the dispute. The decision of the Regional Administrator is final.

(2) An occupant who has been notified that his/her request to purchase a mobile home or manufactured housing unit or that a request for an adjustment to the sales price has been denied shall have the right to dispute such a determination within 60 business days after receipt of such notice. The Regional Administrator shall reconsider the original decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall receive written notice of the disposition of the dispute. The decision of the Regional Administrator is final.

(3) Termination of assistance provided through a FEMA lease agreement shall be initiated with a 15-day written notice after which the occupant shall be liable for such additional charges as are deemed appropriate by the Regional Administrator including, but not limited to, the fair market rental for the temporary housing residence.
