
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.101 Temporary housing assistance for emergencies and major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### 2

() In addition to his/her resources, the purchaser cannot obtain sufficient funds through insurance proceeds, disaster loans, grants, and commercial lending institutions to cover the sales price.

(B) To determine the adjusted sales price, the current available financial resources of the purchaser shall be calculated. If the financial resources are equal to or greater than the basic sales price, then no adjustment shall be approved. If the purchaser's financial resources are less than the basic sales price, the sales price shall be adjusted to take into consideration the financial resources available but shall include some consideration. Deviations from this rule may be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate.

(C) The Regional Administrator must approve all adjustments to the sales price of a mobile home.

(iv) Other conditions of sale.

(A) A unit shall be sold "as is, where is" except for repairs necessary to protect health or safety, which are to be completed prior to sale. There shall be no implied warranties. In addition, the purchaser must be informed that he/she may have to bring the unit up to codes and standards which are applicable at the proposed site.

(B) In accordance with the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, Public Law 93-234, as amended, the sale of a unit for the purpose of meeting the permanent housing need of an individual or family may not be approved where the unit would be placed in a designated special flood hazard area which has been identified by the Administrator for at least 1 year as floodprone unless the community in which the unit is to be located after the sale is, at the time of approval, participating in the National Flood Insurance Program. The purchaser must agree to buy and maintain an adequate flood insurance policy for as long as the unit is occupied by the purchaser. An adequate policy for purposes of this paragraph shall mean one which provides coverage for the basic sales price of the unit. The purchaser must provide proof of purchase of the initial flood insurance policy.
