
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.110 Federal assistance to individuals and households.
####### Flood insurance purchase requirement:

(3)(i) As a condition of the assistance and in order to receive any Federal assistance for future flood damage to any insurable property, individuals and households named by FEMA as eligible recipients under section 408 of the Stafford Act who receive assistance, due to flood damages, for acquisition or construction purposes under this subpart must buy and maintain flood insurance, as required in 42 U.S.C. 4012a, for at least the assistance amount. This applies only to real and personal property that is in or will be in a designated Special Flood Hazard Area and that can be insured under the National Flood Insurance Program.

(A) If the applicant is a homeowner, flood insurance coverage must be maintained at the address of the flood-damaged property for as long as the address exists. The flood insurance requirement is reassigned to any subsequent owner of the flood-damaged address.

(B) If the applicant is a renter, flood insurance coverage must be maintained on the contents for as long as the renter resides at the flood-damaged rental unit. The restriction is lifted once the renter moves from the rental unit.

(C) When financial assistance is used to purchase a dwelling, flood insurance coverage must be maintained on the dwelling for as long as the dwelling exists and is located in a designated Special Flood Hazard Area. The flood insurance requirement is reassigned to any subsequent owner of the dwelling.

(ii) FEMA may not provide financial assistance for acquisition or construction purposes to individuals or households who fail to buy and maintain flood insurance required under paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this section or required by the Small Business Administration.
