
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.117 Housing assistance.
####### Types of housing assistance,Temporary housing assistance,Financial assistance.

(b)-(1)-(i)Eligible individuals and households may receive financial assistance to rent alternate housing resources, existing rental units, manufactured housing, recreational vehicles, or other readily fabricated dwellings. FEMA may also provide assistance for the reasonable cost of any transportation, utility hookups, or installation of a manufactured housing unit or recreational vehicle to be used for housing. This includes reimbursement for reasonable short-term lodging expenses that individuals or households incur in the immediate aftermath of a disaster.

(A) FEMA will include all members of a pre-disaster household in a single registration and will provide assistance for one temporary housing residence, unless the Regional Administrator or his/her designee determines that the size or nature of the household requires that we provide assistance for more than one residence.

(B) FEMA will base the rental assistance on the Department of Housing and Urban Development's current fair market rates for existing rental units. FEMA will further base the applicable rate on the household's bedroom requirement and the location of the rental unit.

(C) All utility costs and utility security deposits are the responsibility of the occupant except where the utility does not meter utility services separately and utility services are a part of the rental charge.

(D) The occupant is responsible for all housing security deposits. In extraordinary circumstances, the Regional Administrator or his/her designee may authorize the payment of security deposits; however, the owner or occupant must reimburse the full amount of the security deposit to the Federal Government before or at the time that the temporary housing assistance ends.
