
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.117 Housing assistance.
####### Repairs.

(2)(i) FEMA may provide financial assistance for the repair of real property components in an owner's primary residence if:

(A) The eligibility criteria in ยง 206.113 are met;

(B) The component was functional immediately before the declared event;

(C) The component was damaged, and the damage was caused by the disaster;

(D) The damage to the component is not covered by insurance; and

(E) Repair of the component is necessary to ensure the safety or health of the occupant or to make the residence functional.

(ii) FEMA may provide financial assistance for the repair of:

(A) Structural components of the residence. This includes real property components, such as the foundation, exterior walls, and roof.

(B) Windows and doors.

(C) The Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning system.

(D) Utility systems. This includes electrical, gas, water and sewage systems.

(E) Interior components. This includes, but is not limited to, the structure's floors, walls, ceilings, and cabinetry.

(F) The structure's access and egress, including privately owned access roads and privately owned bridges.

(G) Blocking, leveling, and anchoring of a mobile home, and reconnecting or resetting mobile home sewer, water, electrical and fuel lines and tanks.

(H) Items or services determined to be eligible hazard mitigation measures that reduce the likelihood of future damage to the residence, utilities, or infrastructure.

(iii) The components that may be deemed eligible for repair assistance, and the type of repairs authorized, will vary depending upon the nature of the disaster. Repairs are limited to restoration of the dwelling to a safe and sanitary living or functioning condition. Repair assistance will only be provided to the extent that the work makes the component functional. FEMA may provide for the replacement of components if repair is not feasible. The repairs of components must be of average quality, size, and capacity, taking into consideration the needs of the occupant.

(iv) Components that were functional immediately before the declared event may be eligible for repair assistance if the damage to the component was caused by the disaster and the component is no longer functional.
