
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### ยง 206.117 Housing assistance.
####### Permanent and semi-permanent housing construction.

(4)(i) FEMA may provide financial or direct assistance to applicants for the purpose of constructing permanent and semi-permanent housing if:

(A) The eligibility criteria in ยง 206.113 of this part are met;

(B) The residence was functional immediately before the declared event;

(C) The residence was damaged by the event;

(D) The damage to the residence is not covered by insurance;

(E) The residence was an owner-occupied primary residence; and

(F) The residence is located in an insular area outside the continental United States or in another location where alternative housing resources are not available and the types of financial or direct temporary housing assistance described in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section are unavailable, infeasible, or not cost-effective.

(ii) Permanent and semi-permanent housing construction, in general, must be consistent with current minimal local building codes and standards where they exist, or minimal acceptable construction industry standards in the area, including reasonable hazard mitigation measures, and Federal environmental laws and regulations. Dwellings will be of average quality, size and capacity, taking into consideration the needs of the occupant.

(iii) If the applicant disputes a determination made by FEMA regarding eligibility for construction assistance, the applicant may appeal that determination pursuant to the procedures in ยง 206.115 of this part. In addition to the requirements in ยง 206.115, the applicant must provide proof that the property is either located in an insular area outside the continental United States, or in a location where alternative housing resources are not available. The applicant must also provide proof that the types of financial or direct temporary housing assistance described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are unavailable, infeasible, or not cost effective. If the applicant disputes the amount of construction assistance awarded, the applicant must also provide justification for the amount sought.
