
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households
###### § 206.120 State administration of other needs assistance.
####### Under a grant:

(B)The procedure for eligibility determinations when the FEMA application and inspection systems are not used by the State, including the method for determination of costs for personal property and provision of a standard list for personal property items with allowable costs identified for each item.

(v) Procedures for checking compliance for mandated flood insurance in accordance with § 206.110(k);

(vi) Procedures for notifying applicants of the State's eligibility decision;

(vii) Procedures for disbursement of funds to applicants;

(viii) Procedures for applicant appeal processing. Procedures must provide for any appealable determination as identified in § 206.115(a);

(ix) Procedures for expeditious reporting of allegations of fraud, waste or abuse to DHS Office of Inspector General.

(x) Capacity to investigate allegations of waste, fraud and abuse independently if requested by DHS OIG, or in conjunction with DHS OIG.

(xi) Provisions for safeguarding the privacy of applicants and the confidentiality of information, in accordance with § 206.110(j).

(xii) Provisions for complying with § 206.116(b), Recovery of funds.

(4) Procedures for financial management, accountability and oversight.

(i) Procedures for verifying by random sample that assistance funds are meeting applicants' needs, are not duplicating assistance from other means, and are meeting flood insurance requirements.

(ii) Provisions for specifically identifying, in the accounts of the State, all Federal and State funds committed to each grant program; and for immediately returning, upon discovery, all Federal funds that are excess to program needs.

(iii) Provisions for accounting for cash in compliance with State law and procedure and the Cash Management Improvement Act of 1990, as amended.

(iv) Reports.

(A) Procedures for preparing and submitting quarterly and final Financial Status Reports in compliance with 2 CFR 200.327.

(B) Procedures for submitting Program Status Reports in compliance with paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section.

(C) Procedures for preparing and submitting the PSC 272, Federal Cash Transactions Report.

(v) Procedures for inventory control, including a system for identifying and tracking placement of equipment purchased with grant funds or loaned by FEMA to the State for purposes of administering the Individuals and Households Program.

(vi) Procedures for return of funds to FEMA.

(vii) State criteria and requirements for closing out Federal grants.

(viii) Process for retention of records.
