
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart E - Individual and Family Grant Programs
###### ยง 206.131 Individual and Family Grant Program for major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### General.

(a)The Governor may request that a Federal grant be made to a State for the purpose of such State making grants to individuals or families who, as a result of a major disaster, are unable to meet disaster-related necessary expenses or serious needs for Presidentially-declared major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002 (Note that the reference to section 411 of the Stafford Act refers to prior legislation amended by the Disaster Mitigation Act 2000). The total Federal grant under this section will be equal to 75 percent of the actual cost of meeting necessary expenses or serious needs of individuals and families, plus State administrative expenses not to exceed 5 percent of the Federal grant (see paragraph (g) of this section). The total Federal grant is made only on condition that the remaining 25 percent of the actual cost of meeting individuals' or families' necessary expenses or serious needs is paid from funds made available by the State. With respect to any one major disaster, an individual or family may not receive a grant or grants under this section totaling more than $10,000 including both the Federal and State shares. The $10,000 limit will be adjusted annually, at the beginning of each fiscal year, to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers. IFG assistance for damages or losses to real or personal property, or both, will be provided to individuals or families with those IFG-eligible losses totaling $201 or more; those individuals with damages or losses of $200 or less to real or personal property, or both, are ineligible. The Governor or his/her designee is responsible for the administration of the grant program. The provisions of this regulation are in accordance with 44 CFR Part 13, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.
