
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart E - Individual and Family Grant Programs
###### ยง 206.131 Individual and Family Grant Program for major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Eligible categories.

(2)Assistance under this section shall be made available to meet necessary expenses or serious needs by providing essential items or services in the following categories:

(i) Housing. With respect to primary residences (including mobile homes) which are owner-occupied at the time of the disaster, grants may be authorized to:

(A) Repair, replace, or rebuild;

(B) Provide access. When an access serves more than one individual or family, an owner-occupant whose primary residence is served by the access may be eligible for a proportionate share of the cost of jointly repairing or providing such access. The owner-occupant may combine his/her grant funds with funds made available by the other individuals or families if a joint use agreement is executed (with no cost or charge involved) or if joint ownership of the access is agreed to;

(C) Clean or make sanitary;

(D) Remove debris from such residences. Debris removal is limited to the minimum required to remove health or safety hazards from, or protect against additional damage to the residence;

(E) Provide or take minimum protective measures required to protect such residences against the immediate threat of damage, which means that the disaster damage is causing a potential safety hazard and, if not repaired, will cause actual safety hazards from common weather or environmental events (example: additional rain, flooding, erosion, wind); and

(F) Minimization measures required by owner-occupants to comply with the provision of 44 CFR part 9 (Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands), to enable them to receive assistance from other means, and/or to enable them to comply with a community's floodplain management regulations.

(ii) Personal property. Proof of ownership of personal property is not required. This category includes:

(A) Clothing;

(B) Household items, furnishings, or appliances. If a predisaster renter receives a grant for household items, furnishings, or appliances and these items are an integral part of mobile home or other furnished unit, the predisaster renter may apply the funds awarded for these specific items toward the purchase of the furnished unit, and toward mobile home site development, towing, set-up, connecting and/or reconnecting;

(C) Tools, specialized or protective clothing, and equipment which are required by an employer as a condition of employment;

(D) Repairing, cleaning or sanitizing any eligible personal property item; and

(E) Moving and storing to prevent or reduce damage.

(iii) Transportation. Grants may be authorized to repair, replace, or provide privately owned vehicles or to provide public transportation.

(iv) Medical or dental expenses.

(v) Funeral expenses. Grants may include funeral and burial (and/or cremation) and related expenses.

(vi) Cost of the first year's flood insurance premium to meet the requirement of this section.

(vii) Costs for estimates required for eligibility determinations under the IFG program. Housing and personal property estimates will be provided by the government. However, an applicant may appeal to the State if he/she feels the government estimate is inaccurate. The cost of an applicant-obtained estimate to support the appeal is not an eligible cost.

(viii) Other. A State may determine that other necessary expenses and serious needs are eligible for grant assistance. If such a determination is made, the State must summarize the facts of the case and thoroughly document its findings of eligibility. Should the State require technical assistance in making a determination of eligibility, it may provide a factual summary to the Regional Administrator and request guidance. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate also may determine that other necessary expenses and serious needs are eligible for grant assistance. Following such a determination, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall advise the State, through the Regional Administrator, and provide the necessary program guidance.
