
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart E - Individual and Family Grant Programs
###### ยง 206.131 Individual and Family Grant Program for major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Verification.

(4)The State will be provided most verification data on IFG applicants who were not required to first apply to the SBA. The FEMA Regional Administrator shall be responsible for performing most of the required verifications in the categories of housing (to include documentation of home ownership and primary residency); personal property; and transportation (to include notation of the plate or title number of the vehicle; the State may wish to follow up on this). Certain verifications may still be required to be performed by the State, such as on late applicants or reverifications, when FEMA or its contractors are no longer available, and on medical/dental, funeral and "other" categories. Eligibility determination functions shall be performed by the State. The SBA will provide copies of verification performed by SBA staff on housing and personal property (including vehicles) for those applicants who were first required to apply to SBA. This will enable the State to make an eligibility determination on those applicants. When an applicant disagrees with the grant award, he/she may appeal to the State. The cost of any estimate provided by the applicant in support of his/her appeal is not eligible under the program.
