
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart E - Individual and Family Grant Programs
###### ยง 206.131 Individual and Family Grant Program for major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### 3

() A decision by an impartial person or board;

(I) Disbursing grants in a timely manner;

(J) Verifying by random sample that grant funds are meeting applicants' needs, are not duplicating assistance from other means, and are meeting floodplain management and flood insurance requirements. Guidance on the sample size will be provided by the Regional Administrator;

(K) Recovering grant funds obtained fraudulently, expended for unauthorized items or services, expended for items for which assistance is received from other means, or authorized for acquisition or construction purposes where proof of purchase of flood insurance is not provided to the State. Except for those mentioned in the previous sentence, grants made properly by the State on the basis of federally sponsored verification information are not subject to recovery by the State, i.e., FEMA will not hold the State responsible for repaying to FEMA the Federal share of those grants. The State is responsible for its 25 percent share of those grants. As an attachment to its voucher, the State must identify each case where recovery actions have been taken or are to be taken, and the steps taken or to be taken to accomplish recovery;

(L) Conducting any State audits that might be performed in compliance with the Single Audit Act of 1984; and ensuring that appropriate corrective action is taken within 6 months after receipt of the audit report in instances of noncompliance with Federal laws and regulations;

(M) Reporting to the Regional Administrator, and to the Federal Coordinating Officer as required; and

(N) Reviewing and updating the plan each January.

(iii) National eligibility criteria as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iv) Provisions for compliance with 44 CFR part 13, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; 44 CFR part 11, Claims; the State's own debt collection procedures; and all applicable Federal laws and regulations.

(v) Pertinent time limitations for accepting applications, grant award activities, and administrative activities, to comply with Federal time limitations.

(vi) Provisions for specifically identifying, in the accounts of the State, all Federal and State funds committed to each grant program; for repaying the loaned State share as of the date agreed upon in the FEMA-State Agreement; and for immediately returning, upon discovery, all Federal funds that are excess to program needs.

(vii) Provisions for safeguarding the privacy of applicants and the confidentiality of information, except that the information may be provided to agencies or organizations who require it to make eligibility decisions for assistance programs, or to prevent duplication of benefits, to State agencies responsible for audit or program review, and to FEMA or the Government Accountability Office for the purpose of making audits or conducting program reviews.

(viii) A section identifying the management and staffing functions in the IFG program, the sources of staff to fill these functions, and the management and oversight responsibilities of:

(A) The GAR;

(B) The department head responsible for the IFG program;

(C) The Grant Coordinating Officer, i.e., the State official assigned management responsibility for the IFG program; and

(D) The IFG program manager, where management responsibilities are assigned to such a person on a day-to-day basis.

(2) The Governor or his/her designee may request the Regional Administrator to provide technical assistance in the preparation of an administrative plan to implement this program.

(3) The Governor shall submit a revised State administrative plan each January to the Regional Administrator. The Regional Administrator shall review and approve the plan annually. In each disaster for which assistance under this section is requested, the Regional Administrator shall request the State to prepare any amendments required to meet current policy guidance. The Regional Administrator must then work with the State until the plan and amendment(s) are approved.

(4) The State shall make its approved administrative plan part of the State emergency plan, as described in subpart A of these regulations.
