
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart E - Individual and Family Grant Programs
###### ยง 206.131 Individual and Family Grant Program for major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Funding.

(g)(1) The Regional Administrator may obligate the Federal share of the IFG program based upon the determination that:

(i) The Governor has indicated the intention to implement the program, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section;

(ii) The State's administrative plan meets the requirements of this section and current policy guidance; and

(iii) There is no excess advance of the Federal share due FEMA from a prior IFG program. The State may eliminate any such debt by paying it immediately, or by accepting an offset of the owed funds against other funds payable by FEMA to the State. When the excess Federal share has been repaid, the Regional Administrator may then obligate funds for the Federal share for the current disaster.

(2) The Regional Administrator may increase the State's letter of credit to meet the Federal share of program needs if the above conditions are met. The State may withdraw funds for the Federal share in the amount made available to it by the Regional Administrator. Advances to the State are governed by 44 CFR 13.21, Payment.

(3) The Regional Administrator may lend to the State its share in accordance with subpart A of these regulations.

(4) Payable costs are governed by 44 CFR 13.22, Allowable Costs, and the associated OMB Circular A-87, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments. Also, the costs must be in accordance with the national eligibility criteria stated in paragraph (d) of this section, and the State's administrative plan, as stated in paragraph (e) of this section. The Federal contribution to this program shall be 75 percent of program costs and shall be made in accordance with 44 CFR 13.25, Matching or Cost-Sharing.
