
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart E - Individual and Family Grant Programs
###### ยง 206.131 Individual and Family Grant Program for major disasters declared on or before October 14, 2002.
####### Exception:

(ii) Applications shall be accepted from individuals or families for a period of 60 days following the declaration, and for no longer than 30 days thereafter when the State determines that extenuating circumstances beyond the applicants' control (such as, but not limited to, hospitalization, illness, or inaccessibility to application centers) prevented them from applying in a timely manner.If applicants exercising their responsibility to first apply to the Small Business Administration do so after SBA's deadline, and SBA accepts their case for processing because of "substantial causes essentially beyond the control of the applicant," and provides a formal decline or insufficient loan based on lack of repayment ability, unsatisfactory credit, or unsatisfactory experience with prior loans (i.e., the reasons a loan denial client would normally be eligible for IFG assistance), then such an application referred to the State by the SBA is considered as meeting the IFG filing deadline. The State may then apply its own criteria in determining whether to process the case for grant assistance. The State automatically has an extension of time to complete the processing, eligibility, and disbursement functions. However, the State must still complete all administrative activity within the 270-day period described in this section.

(iii) The State shall complete all grant award activity, including eligibility determinations, disbursement, and disposition of State level appeals, within 180 days following the declaration date. The Regional Administrator shall suspend all grant awards disbursed after the specified completion date; and

(iv) The State shall complete all administrative activities and submit final reports and vouchers to the Regional Administrator within 90 days of the completion of all grant award activity.

(2) The GAR may submit a request with appropriate justification for the extension of any time limitation. The Regional Administrator may approve the request for a period not to exceed 90 days. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may approve any request for a further extension of the time limitations.
