
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart F - Other Individual Assistance
###### ยง 206.171 Crisis counseling assistance and training.
####### Appeals.

(5)There are two levels of appeals. If a State submits appeals at both levels, the first appeal must be submitted early enough to allow the latter appeal to be submitted within 60 days following the date of the funding determination on the immediate services program application.

(i) The State may appeal the Regional Administrator's decision. This appeal must be submitted in writing within 60 days of the date of notification of the application decision, but early enough to allow for further appeal if desired. The appeal must include information justifying a reversal of the decision. The Regional Director shall review the material submitted, and after consultation with the Secretary, notify the State, in writing within 15 days of receipt of the appeal, of his/her decision;

(ii) The State may further appeal the Regional Administrator's decision to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. This appeal shall be made in writing within 60 days of the date of the Regional Administrator's notification of the decision on the immediate services application. The appeal must include information justifying a reversal of the decision. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or other impartial person, shall review the material submitted, and after consultation with the Secretary and Regional Administrator, notify the State, in writing, within 15 days of receipt of the appeal, of his/her decision.
