
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart F - Other Individual Assistance
###### ยง 206.171 Crisis counseling assistance and training.
####### Reporting requirements.

(3)The State shall submit the following reports to the Regional Administrator, the Secretary, and the State Coordinating Officer:

(i) Quarterly progress reports, as required by the Regional Administrator or the Secretary, due 30 days after the end of the reporting period. This is consistent with 2 CFR 200.328, Monitoring and Reporting Program Performance;

(ii) A final program report, to be submitted within 90 days after the end of the program period. This is also consistent with 2 CFR 200.328, Monitoring and Reporting Program Performance;

(iii) An accounting of funds, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.327, Financial Reporting, to be submitted with the final program report; and

(iv) Such additional reports as the Regional Administrator, Secretary, or SCO may require.

(4) Regular program funding:

(i) Shall not exceed 9 months from the date of the DHHS notice of grant award, except that upon the request of the State to the Regional Administrator and the Secretary, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may authorize up to 90 days of additional program period because of documented extraordinary circumstances. In limited circumstances, such as disasters of a catastrophic nature, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may extend the program period for more than 90 days where he or she deems it to be in the public interest.

(ii) The amount of the regular program grant award will take into consideration the Secretary's estimate of the sum necessary to carry out the grant purpose.

(iii) Any funds granted pursuant to a regular program, paragraph (g) of this section, shall be expended solely for the purposes specified in the approved application and budget, these regulations, the terms and conditions of the award, and the applicable cost principles prescribed in subpart Q of 45 CFR part 92.
