
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart F - Other Individual Assistance
###### ยง 206.181 Use of gifts and bequests for disaster assistance purposes.
####### Purposes for awarding funds.

(b)Money from the Cora Brown Fund may only be used to provided for disaster-related needs that have not been or will not be met by governmental agencies or any other organizations which have programs to address such needs; however, the fund is not intended to replace or supersede these programs. For example, if assistance is available from another source, including the Individual and Family Grant program and government-sponsored disaster loan assistance, then money from the Cora Brown Fund will not be available to the applicant for the same purpose. Listed below are the general categories of assistance which can be provided by the Cora Brown Fund:

(1) Disaster-related home repair and rebuilding assistance to families for permanent housing purposes, including site acquisition and development, relocation of residences out of hazardous areas, assistance with costs associated with temporary housing or permanent rehousing (e.g., utility deposits, access, transportation, connection of utilities, etc.);

(2) Disaster-related unmet needs of families who are unable to obtain adequate assistance under the Act or from other sources. Such assistance may include but is not limited to: health and safety measures; evacuation costs; assistance delineated in the Act or other Federal, State, local, or volunteer programs; hazard mitigation or floodplain management purposes; and assistance to self-employed persons (with no employees) to reestablish their businesses; and

(3) Other services which alleviate human suffering and promote the well being of disaster victims. For example, services to the elderly, to children, or to handicapped persons, such as transportation, recreational programs, provision of special ramps, or hospital or home visiting services. The funds may be provided to individual disaster victims, or to benefit a group of disaster victims.
