
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart F - Other Individual Assistance
###### ยง 206.181 Use of gifts and bequests for disaster assistance purposes.
####### Conditions for use of the Cora Brown Fund.

(c)(1) The Cora Brown Fund is available only when the President declares that a major disaster or emergency exists under the Act, only in areas designated as eligible for Federal disaster assistance through notice in theand only at the discretion of the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. The fund is limited to the initial endowment plus accrued interest, and this assistance program will cease when the fund is used up.

(2) A disaster victim normally will receive no more than $2,000 from this fund in any one declared disaster unless the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate determines that a larger amount is in the best interest of the disaster victim and the Federal Government. Funds to provide service which benefit a group may be awarded in an amount determined by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, based on the Regional Administrator's recommendation.

(3) The fund may not be used in a way that is inconsistent with other federally mandated disaster assistance or insurance programs, or to modify other generally applicable requirements.

(4) Funds awarded to a disaster victim may be provided by FEMA jointly to the disaster victim and to a State or local agency, or volunteer organization, to enable such an agent to assist in providing the approved assistance to an applicant. Example: Repair funds may be provided jointly to an applicant and the Mennonite Disaster Service, who will coordinate the purchase of supplies and provide the labor.

(5) Money from this fund will not duplicate assistance for which a person is eligible from other sources.

(6) In order to comply with the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234), as amended, any award for acquisition or construction purposes shall carry a requirement that any adequate flood insurance policy be purchased and maintained. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall determine what is adequate based on the purpose of the award.

(7) The fund shall be administered in an equitable and impartial manner without discrimination on the grounds of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, or economic status.

(8) Funds awarded to a disaster victim from this fund may be combined with funds from other sources.
