
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart F - Other Individual Assistance
###### ยง 206.181 Use of gifts and bequests for disaster assistance purposes.
####### Administrative procedures.

(d)(1) The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, shall be responsible for awarding funds and authorizing disbursement.

(2) The Chief Financial Officer shall be responsible for fund accountability and, in coordination with the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, for liaison with the Department of the Treasury concerning the investment of excess money in the fund pursuant to the provisions contained in section 601 of the Act.

(3) Each FEMA Regional Administrator may submit requests to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate on a disaster victim's behalf by providing documentation describing the needs of the disaster victim, a verification of the disaster victim's claim, a record of other assistance which has been or will be available for the same purpose, and his/her recommendation as to the items and the amount. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall review the facts and make a determination. If the award amount is below $2,000, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may appoint a designee to have approval authority; approval authority of $2,000 or above shall be retained by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall notify the Chief Financial Officer of a decision for approval, and the Chief Financial Officer shall order a check to be sent to the disaster victim (or jointly to the disaster victim and an assistance organization), through the Regional Administrator. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall also notify the Regional Administrator of the decision, whether for approval or disapproval. The Regional Administrator shall notify the disaster victim in writing, identify any award as assistance from the Cora Brown Fund, and advise the recipient of appeal procedures.

(4) If the award is to be for a service to a group of disaster victims, the Regional Administrator shall submit his/her recommendation and supporting documentation to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate (or his/her designee if the award is below $2,000), who shall review the information and make a determination. In cases of approval, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall request the Chief Financial Officer to send a check to the intended recipient or provider, as appropriate. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate shall notify the Regional Administrator of the decision. The Regional Administrator shall notify a representative of the group in writing.

(5) The Chief Financial Officer shall process requests for checks, shall keep records of disbursements and balances in the account, and shall provide the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate with quarterly reports.
