
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart F - Other Individual Assistance
###### ยง 206.191 Duplication of benefits.
####### Guidance to prevent duplication of benefits.

(d)(1) Delivery sequence. FEMA provides the following policy and procedural guidance to ensure uniformity in preventing duplication of benefits.

(i) Duplication occurs when an agency has provided assistance which was the primary responsibility of another agency, and the agency with primary responsibility later provides assistance. A delivery sequence establishes the order in which disaster relief agencies and organizations provide assistance. The specific sequence, in accordance with the mandates of the assistance programs, is to be generally followed in the delivery of assistance.

(ii) When the delivery sequence has been disrupted, the disrupting agency is responsible for rectifying the duplication. The delivery sequence pertains to that period of time in the recovery phase when most of the traditional disaster assistance programs are available.

(2) The delivery sequence is, in order of delivery:

(i) Volunteer agencies' emergency assistance (except expendable items such as clothes, linens, and basic kitchenware); insurance (including flood insurance);

(ii) Housing assistance pursuant to section 408 of the Stafford Act.

(iii) Small Business Administration and Farmers Home Administration disaster loans;

(iv) Other Needs assistance, pursuant to section 408 of the Stafford Act or its predecessor program, the Individual and Family Grant Program.

(v) Volunteer agencies' "additional assistance" programs; and

(vi) The "Cora Brown Fund."

(3) Two significant points about the delivery sequence are that:

(i) Each assistance agency should, in turn, offer and be responsible for delivering assistance without regard to duplication with a program later in the sequence; and

(ii) The sequence itself determines what types of assistance can duplicate other assistance (i.e., a Federal program can duplicate insurance benefits, however, insurance benefits cannot duplicate the Federal assistance). An agency's position in the sequence determines the order in which it should provide assistance and what other resources it must consider before it does so.

(4) If following the delivery sequence concept would adversely affect the timely receipt of essential assistance by a disaster victim, an agency may offer assistance which is the primary responsibility of another agency. There also may be cases when an agency (Agency B) delivers assistance which is normally the primary responsibility of another agency (Agency A) because Agency A has, for good cause, denied assistance. After the assistance is delivered, Agency A reopens the case. If the primary response Agency A then provides assistance, that Agency A is responsible for coordinating with Agency B to either:

(i) Assist Agency B in preventing the duplication of benefits, or

(ii) In the case where the disaster victim has refused assistance from Agency A, notify Agency B that it must recover assistance previously provided.
