
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.203 Federal grant assistance.
####### Alternate projects.

(2)In any case where a subrecipient determines that the public welfare would not be best served by restoring a damaged public facility or the function of that facility, the recipient may request that the Regional Administrator approve an alternate project.

(i) The alternate project option may be taken only on permanent restorative work.

(ii) Federal funding for alternate projects for damaged public facilities will be 90 percent of the Federal share of the Federal estimate of the cost of repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing the facility and of management expenses.

(iii) Federal funding for alternate projects for damaged private nonprofit facilities will be 75 percent of the Federal share of the Federal estimate of the cost of repairing, restoring, reconstructing, or replacing the facility and of management expenses.

(iv) Funds contributed for alternate projects may be used to repair or expand other selected public facilities, to construct new facilities, or to fund hazard mitigation measures. These funds may not be used to pay the nonFederal share of any project, nor for any operating expense.

(v) Prior to the start of construction of any alternate project the recipient shall submit for approval by the Regional Administrator the following: a description of the proposed alternate project(s); a schedule of work; and the projected cost of the project(s). The recipient shall also provide the necessary assurances to document compliance with special requirements, including, but not limited to floodplain management, environmental assessment, hazard mitigation, protection of wetlands, and insurance.
