
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.204 Project performance.
####### Cost Overruns.

(e)(1) During the execution of approved work a subrecipient may find that the actual project costs exceed the approved Project Worksheet estimates. Such cost overruns normally fall into the following three categories:

(i) Variations in unit prices;

(ii) Change in the scope of eligible work; or

(iii) Delays in timely starts or completion of eligible work.

(2) The subrecipient must evaluate each cost overrun and, when justified, submit a request for additional funding through the recipient to the Regional Administrator for a final determination. All requests for the Regional Administrator's approval will contain sufficient documentation to support the eligibility of all claimed work and costs. The recipient must include a written recommendation when forwarding the request. The Regional Administrator will notify the recipient in writing of the final determination. FEMA will not normally review an overrun for an individual small project. The normal procedure for small projects will be that when a subrecipient discovers a significant overrun related to the total final cost for all small projects, the subrecipient may submit an appeal for additional funding in accordance with ยง 206.206, within 60 days following the completion of all its small projects.
