
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.205 Payment of claims.
####### Large projects.

(b)(1) The recipient shall make an accounting to the Regional Administrator of eligible costs for each approved large project. In submitting the accounting the recipient shall certify that reported costs were incurred in the performance of eligible work, that the approved work was completed, that the project is in compliance with the provisions of the FEMA-State Agreement, and that payments for that project have been made in accordance with 2 CFR 200.305. Each large project shall be submitted as soon as practicable after the subrecipient has completed the approved work and requested payment.

(2) The Regional Administrator shall review the accounting to determine the eligible amount of reimbursement for each large project and approve eligible costs. If a discrepancy between reported costs and approved funding exists, the Regional Administrator may conduct field reviews to gather additional information. If discrepancies in the claim cannot be resolved through a field review, a Federal audit may be conducted. If the Regional Administrator determines that eligible costs exceed the initial approval, he/she will obligate additional funds as necessary.
