
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.206 Appeals and arbitrations.
####### Time limits.

(ii)(A) The applicant may make a first appeal through the recipient within 60 calendar days from the date of the FEMA determination that is the subject of the appeal and the recipient must electronically forward to the Regional Administrator the applicant's first appeal with a recommendation within 120 calendar days from the date of the FEMA determination that is the subject of the appeal. If the applicant or the recipient do not meet their respective 60-calendar day and 120-calendar day deadlines, FEMA will deny the appeal. A recipient may make a recipient-related first appeal within 60 calendar days from the date of the FEMA determination that is the subject of the appeal and must electronically submit their first appeal to the Regional Administrator.

(B) Within 90 calendar days following receipt of a first appeal, if there is a need for additional information, the Regional Administrator will provide electronic notice to the recipient and applicant. If there is no need for additional information, then FEMA will not provide notification. The Regional Administrator will generally allow the recipient 30 calendar days to provide any additional information.

(C) The Regional Administrator will provide electronic notice of the disposition of the appeal to the applicant and recipient within 90 calendar days of receipt of the appeal or within 90 calendar days following the receipt of additional information or following expiration of the period for providing the information.
