
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.206 Appeals and arbitrations.
####### Time limits.

(ii)(A) If the Regional Administrator denies a first appeal in whole or in part, the applicant may make a second appeal through the recipient within 60 calendar days from the date of the Regional Administrator's first appeal decision and the recipient must electronically forward to the Assistant Administrator for the Recovery Directorate the applicant's second appeal with a recommendation within 120 calendar days from the date of the Regional Administrator's first appeal decision. If the applicant or the recipient do not meet their respective 60-calendar day and 120-calendar day deadlines, FEMA will deny the appeal. If the Regional Administrator denies a recipient-related first appeal in whole or in part, the recipient may make a recipient-related second appeal within 60 calendar days from the date of the Regional Administrator's first appeal decision and the recipient must electronically submit their second appeal to the Assistant Administrator for the Recovery Directorate.

(B) Within 90 calendar days following receipt of a second appeal, if there is a need for additional information, the Assistant Administrator for the Recovery Directorate will provide electronic notice to the recipient and applicant. If there is no need for additional information, then FEMA will not provide notification. The Assistant Administrator for the Recovery Directorate will generally allow the recipient 30 calendar days to provide any additional information.

(C) The Assistant Administrator for the Recovery Directorate will provide electronic notice of the disposition of the appeal to the recipient and applicant within 90 calendar days of receipt of the appeal or within 90 calendar days following the receipt of additional information or following expiration of the period for providing the information.
