
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.207 Administrative and audit requirements.
####### State administrative plan.

(b)(1) The State shall develop a plan for the administration of the Public Assistance program that includes at a minimum, the items listed below:

(i) The designation of the State agency or agencies which will have the responsibility for program administration.

(ii) The identification of staffing functions in the Public Assistance program, the sources of staff to fill these functions, and the management and oversight responsibilities of each.

(iii) Procedures for:

(A) Notifying potential applicants of the availability of the program;

(B) Conducting briefings for potential applicants and application procedures, program eligibility guidance and program deadlines;

(C) Assisting FEMA in determining applicant eligibility;

(D) Participating with FEMA in conducting damage surveys to serve as a basis for obligations of funds to subrecipients;

(E) Participating with FEMA in the establishment of hazard mitigation and insurance requirements;

(F) Processing appeal requests, requests for time extensions and requests for approval of overruns, and for processing appeals of recipient decisions;

(G) Compliance with the administrative requirements of 2 CFR parts 200 and 3002 and 44 CFR part 206;

(H) Compliance with the audit requirements of 2 CFR parts 200 and 3002;

(I) Processing requests for advances of funds and reimbursement; and

(J) Determining staffing and budgeting requirements necessary for proper program management.

(K) Determining the reasonable percentage or amount of pass-through funds for management costs provided under 44 CFR part 207 that the recipient will make available to subrecipients, and the basis, criteria, or formula for determining the subrecipient percentage or amount.

(2) The recipient may request the Regional Administrator to provide technical assistance in the preparation of such administrative plan.

(3) In accordance with the Interim Rule published March 21, 1989, the recipient was to have submitted an administrative plan to the RD for approval by September 18, 1989. An approved plan must be on file with FEMA before grants will be approved in a future major disaster. Thereafter, the recipient shall submit a revised plan to the Regional Administrator annually. In each disaster for which Public Assistance is included, the Regional Administrator shall request the recipient to prepare any amendments required to meet current policy guidance.

(4) The recipient shall ensure that the approved administrative plan is incorporated into the State emergency plan.
