
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.208 Direct Federal assistance.
####### Implementation.

(c)(1) If the Regional Administrator approves the request, a mission assignment will be issued to the appropriate Federal agency. The mission assignment letter to the agency will define the scope of eligible work, the estimated cost of the eligible work and the billing period frequency. The Federal agency must not exceed the approved funding limit without the authorization of the Regional Administrator.

(2) If all or any part of the requested work falls within the statutory authority of another Federal agency, the Regional Administrator shall not approve that portion of the work. In such case, the unapproved portion of the request will be referred to the appropriate agency for action.

(3) If an impact-State requests assistance in providing evacuation and sheltering support outside an impact-State, FEMA may directly reimburse a host-State for such eligible costs through a grant to a host-State under an impact-State's declaration, consistent with ยง 206.202(f)(1). FEMA may award a grant to a host-State when FEMA determines that a host-State has sufficient capability to meet some or all of the sheltering and/or evacuation needs of an impact-State, and a host-State agrees in writing to provide such support to an impact-State.
