
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart G - Public Assistance Project Administration
###### ยง 206.208 Direct Federal assistance.
####### Project management.

(e)(1) The performing Federal agency shall ensure that the work is completed in accordance with the Regional Administrator's approved scope of work, costs and time limitations. The performing Federal agency shall also keep the Regional Administrator and recipient advised of work progress and other project developments. It is the responsibility of the performing Federal agency to ensure compliance with applicable Federal, State and local legal requirements. A final inspection report will be completed upon termination of all direct Federal assistance work. Final inspection reports shall be signed by a representative of the performing Federal agency and the State. Once the final eligible cost is determined (including Federal agency overhead), the State will be billed for the nonFederal share of the mission assignment in accordance with the cost sharing provisions of the FEMA-State Agreement.

(2) Pursuant to the agreements provided in the request for assistance the recipient shall assist the performing Federal agency in all State and local jurisdictional matters. These matters include securing local building permits and rights of entry, control of traffic and pedestrians, and compliance with local building ordinances.
