
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 7 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS (FEMA REG. 5)
##### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance From FEMA
###### Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
####### ยง 7.941 Complaints.

(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with FEMA, alleging discrimination prohibited by the Act or these regulations occurring after the date of final adoption of this rule. A complainant shall file a complaint within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause showing, FEMA may extend this time limit.

(b) FEMA will consider the date a complaint is filed to be the date upon which the complaint is sufficient to be processed. A complaint is deemed "sufficient" when it contains particulars (e.g., names, addresses, and telephone numbers of parties involved; date(s) of alleged discrimination; kind(s) of alleged discrimination) upon which to begin an investigation.

(c) FEMA will attempt to facilitate the filing of complaints wherever possible, including taking the following measures:

(1) Accepting as a sufficient complaint any written statement which identifies the parties involved and the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged violation, describes generally the action or practice complained of, and is signed by the complainant.

(2) Freely permitting a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint.

(3) Notifying the complainant and the recipient of their rights and obligations under the complaint procedure, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint procedure.

(4) Notifying the complainant and the recipient (or their representatives) of their right to contact FEMA for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.

(d) FEMA will return to the complainant any complaint outside the jurisdiction of this regulation, and will state the reason(s) why it is outside the jurisdiction of this regulation.
