
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 7 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY-ASSISTED PROGRAMS (FEMA REG. 5)
##### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance From FEMA
###### Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
####### § 7.945 Compliance procedure.

(a) FEMA may enforce the Act and this regulation through:

(1) Termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from FEMA under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or this regulation. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.

(2) Any other means authorized by law including but not limited to:

(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or this regulation.

(ii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or this regulation.

(b) FEMA will limit any termination under § 7.945(a)(1) to the particular recipient and particular program or activity or part of such program or activity FEMA finds in violation of this regulation. FEMA will not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not receive Federal financial assistance from FEMA.

(c) FEMA will take no action under paragraph (a) until:

(1) The Administrator has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act and this regulation and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.

(2) Thirty days have elapsed after the Administrator has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of the Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the program or activity involved. The Administrator will file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a).

(d) FEMA also may defer granting new Federal financial assistance from FEMA to a recipient when a hearing under § 7.945(a)(1) is initiated.

(1) New Federal financial assistance from FEMA includes all assistance for which FEMA requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities, during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from FEMA does not include increases in funding as a result of changed computation of formula awards or assistance approved prior to the beginning of a hearing under § 7.945(a)(1).

(2) FEMA will not begin a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of an opportunity for a hearing under § 7.945(a)(1). FEMA will not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.

(3) FEMA will limit any deferral to the particular recipient and particular program or activity or part of such program or activity FEMA finds in violation of this regulation. FEMA will not base any part of a deferral on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient which does not and would not, in connection with new funds, receive Federal financial assistance from FEMA.
