
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart H - Public Assistance Eligibility
###### ยง 206.226 Restoration of damaged facilities.
####### Relocation.

(g)(1) The Regional Administrator may approve funding for and require restoration of a destroyed facility at a new location when:

(i) The facility is and will be subject to repetitive heavy damage;

(ii) The approval is not barred by other provisions of title 44 CFR; and

(iii) The overall project, including all costs, is cost effective.

(2) When relocation is required by the Regional Administrator, eligible work includes land acquisition and ancillary facilities such as roads and utilities, in addition to work normally eligible as part of a facility reconstruction. Demolition and removal of the old facility is also an eligible cost.

(3) When relocation is required by the Regional Administrator, no future funding for repair or replacement of a facility at the original site will be approved, except those facilities which facilitate an open space use in accordance with 44 CFR part 9.

(4) When relocation is required by the Regional Administrator, and, instead of relocation, the applicant requests approval of an alternate project [see ยง 206.203(d)(2)], eligible costs will be limited to 90 percent of the estimate of restoration at the original location excluding hazard mitigation measures.

(5) If relocation of a facility is not feasible or cost effective, the Regional Administrator shall disapprove Federal funding for the original location when he/she determines in accordance with 44 CFR parts 9, 10, 201, or subpart M of this part 206, that restoration in the original location is not allowed. In such cases, an alternative project may be applied for.
