
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Public Assistance Insurance Requirements
###### ยง 206.250 General.

(a) Sections 311 and 406(d) of the Stafford Act, and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, Public Law 93-234, set forth certain insurance requirements which apply to disaster assistance provided by FEMA. The requirements of this subpart apply to all assistance provided pursuant to section 406 of the Stafford Act with respect to any major disaster declared by the President after November 23, 1988.

(b) Insurance requirements prescribed in this subpart shall apply equally to private nonprofit (PNP) facilities which receive assistance under section 406 of the Act. PNP organizations shall submit the necessary documentation and assurances required by this subpart to the recipient.

(c) Actual and anticipated insurance recoveries shall be deducted from otherwise eligible costs, in accordance with this subpart.

(d) The full coverage available under the standard flood insurance policy from the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) will be subtracted from otherwise eligible costs for a building and its contents within the special flood hazard area in accordance with ยง 206.252.

(e) The insurance requirements of this subpart should not be interpreted as a substitute for various hazard mitigation techniques which may be available to reduce the incidence and severity of future damage.
