
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart I - Public Assistance Insurance Requirements
###### ยง 206.253 Insurance requirements for facilities damaged by disasters other than flood.

(a) Prior to approval of a Federal grant for the restoration of a facility and its contents which were damaged by a disaster other than flood, the recipient shall notify the Regional Administrator of any entitlement to insurance settlement or recovery for such facility and its contents. The Regional Administrator shall reduce the eligible costs by the actual amount of insurance proceeds relating to the eligible costs.

(b)(1) Assistance under section 406 of the Stafford Act will be approved only on the condition that the recipient obtain and maintain such types and amounts of insurance as are reasonable and necessary to protect against future loss to such property from the types of hazard which caused the major disaster. The extent of insurance to be required will be based on the eligible damage that was incurred to the damaged facility as a result of the major disaster. The Regional Administrator shall not require greater types and extent of insurance than are certified as reasonable by the State Insurance Commissioner.

(2) Due to the high cost of insurance, some applicants may request to insure the damaged facilities under a blanket insurance policy covering all their facilities, an insurance pool arrangement, or some combination of these options. Such an arrangement may be accepted for other than flood damages. However, if the same facility is damaged in a similar future disaster, eligible costs will be reduced by the amount of eligible damage sustained on the previous disaster.

(c) The Regional Administrator shall notify the recipient of the type and amount of insurance required. The recipient may request that the State Insurance Commissioner review the type and extent of insurance required to protect against future loss to a disaster-damaged facility, the Regional Administrator shall not require greater types and extent of insurance than are certified as reasonable by the State Insurance Commissioner.

(d) The requirements of section 311 of the Stafford Act are waived when eligible costs for an insurable facility do not exceed $5,000. The Regional Administrator may establish a higher waiver amount based on hazard mitigation initiatives which reduce the risk of future damages by a disaster similar to the one which resulted in the major disaster declaration which is the basis for the application for disaster assistance.

(e) The recipient shall provide assurances that the required insurance coverage will be maintained for the anticipated life of the restorative work or the insured facility, whichever is the lesser.

(f) No assistance shall be provided under section 406 of the Stafford Act for any facility for which assistance was provided as a result of a previous major disaster unless all insurance required by FEMA as a condition of the previous assistance has been obtained and maintained.
