
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.362 Responsibilities.

(a) The local government shall submit the financial information required by FEMA in the application for a Community Disaster Loan and in the application for loan cancellation, if submitted, and comply with the assurances on the application, the terms and conditions of the Promissory Note, and these regulations. The local government shall send all loan application, loan administration, loan cancellation, and loan settlement correspondence through the GAR and the FEMA Regional Office to the FEMA Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate.

(b) The GAR shall certify on the loan application that the local government can legally assume the proposed indebtedness and that any proceeds will be used and accounted for in compliance with the FEMA-State Agreement for the major disaster. States are encouraged to take appropriate pre-disaster action to resolve any existing State impediments which would preclude a local government from incurring the increased indebtedness associated with a loan in order to avoid protracted delays in processing loan application requests in major disasters or emergencies.

(c) The Regional Administrator or designee shall review each loan application or loan cancellation request received from a local government to ensure that it contains the required documents and transmit the application to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. He/she may submit appropriate recommendations to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate.

(d) The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or a designee, shall execute a Promissory Note with the local government, and the FEMA Finance Center, shall administer the loan until repayment or cancellation is completed and the Promissory Note is discharged.

(e) The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate or designee shall approve or disapprove each loan request, taking into consideration the information provided in the local government's request and the recommendations of the GAR and the Regional Administrator. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate or designee shall approve or disapprove a request for loan cancellation in accordance with the criteria for cancellation in these regulations.

(f) The Chief Financial Officer shall establish and maintain a financial account for each outstanding loan and disburse funds against the Promissory Note.
