
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.366 Loan cancellation.
####### Policies.,operating budget

(a)(1) FEMA shall cancel repayment of all or part of a Community Disaster Loan to the extent that the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate determines that revenues of the local government during the full three fiscal year period following the disaster are insufficient, as a result of the disaster, to meet the operating budget for the local government, including additional unreimbursed disaster-related expenses for a municipal operating character. For loan cancellation purposes, FEMA interprets that termto mean actual revenues and expenditures of the local government as published in the official financial statements of the local government.

(2) If the tax and other revenues rates or the tax assessment valuation of property which was not damaged or destroyed by the disaster are reduced during the 3 fiscal years subsequent to the major disaster, the tax and other revenue rates and tax assessment valuation factors applicable to such property in effect at the time of the major disaster shall be used without reduction for purposes of computing revenues received. This may result in decreasing the potential for loan cancellations.

(3) If the local government's fiscal year is changed during the "full 3 year period following the disaster" the actual period will be modified so that the required financial data submitted covers an inclusive 36-month period.

(4) If the local government transfers funds from its operating funds accounts to its capital funds account, utilizes operating funds for other than routine maintenance purposes, or significantly increases expenditures which are not disaster related, except increases due to inflation, the annual operating budget or operating statement expenditures will be reduced accordingly for purposes of evaluating any request for loan cancellation.

(5) It is not the purpose of this loan program to underwrite predisaster budget or actual deficits of the local government. Consequently, such deficits carried forward will reduce any amounts otherwise eligible for loan cancellation.
