
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.366 Loan cancellation.
####### Determination.

(d)(1) If, based on a review of the Application for Loan Cancellation and FEMA audit, when determined necessary, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate determines that all or part of the Community Disaster Loan funds should be canceled, the principal amount which is canceled will become a grant, and the related interest will be forgiven. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate's determination concerning loan cancellation will specify that any uncancelled principal and related interest must be repaid immediately and that, if immediate repayment will constitute a financial hardship, the local government must submit for FEMA review and approval, a repayment schedule for settling the indebtedness on timely basis. Such repayments must be made to the Treasurer of the United States and be sent to FEMA, Attention: Chief Financial Officer.

(2) A loan or cancellation of a loan does not reduce or affect other disaster-related grants or other disaster assistance. However, no cancellation may be made that would result in a duplication of benefits to the applicant.

(3) The uncancelled portion of the loan must be repaid in accordance with ยง 206.367.
