
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### § 206.372 Responsibilities.

(a) The local government shall submit the financial information required by FEMA in the application for a Community Disaster Loan or other format specified by FEMA and comply with the assurances on the application, the terms and conditions of the Promissory Note, the application for loan cancellation, if submitted, and §§ 206.370 through 206.377. The local government shall send all loan application, loan administration, loan cancellation, and loan settlement correspondence through the Governor's Authorized Representative (GAR) and the FEMA Regional Office to the Director of the Public Assistance Division.

(b) The GAR shall certify on the loan application that the local government can legally assume the proposed indebtedness and that any proceeds will be used and accounted for in compliance with the FEMA-State Agreement for the major disaster. States are encouraged to take appropriate pre-disaster action to resolve any existing State impediments which would preclude a local government from incurring the increased indebtedness associated with a loan in order to avoid protracted delays in processing loan application requests resulting from major disasters.

(c) The Regional Administrator or designee shall review each loan application or loan cancellation request received from a local government to ensure that it contains the required documents and transmit the application to the Director of the Public Assistance Division. He/she may also submit appropriate recommendations to the Director of the Public Assistance Division.

(d) The Director of the Public Assistance Division or a designee, shall execute a Promissory Note with the local government and shall administer the loan until repayment or cancellation is completed and the Promissory Note is discharged.

(e) The Director of the Public Assistance Division shall approve or disapprove each loan request, taking into consideration the information provided in the local government's request and the recommendations of the GAR and the Regional Administrator. The Director of the Public Assistance Division shall approve or disapprove a request for loan cancellation in accordance with the criteria for cancellation in these regulations.

(f) The FEMA Chief Financial Officer shall establish and maintain a financial account for each outstanding loan and disburse funds against the Promissory Note.
