
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.374 Loan application.
####### Application.

(a)(1) The local government shall submit an application for a Special Community Disaster Loan through the GAR. The loan must be justified on the basis of need and shall be based on the actual and projected expenses, as a result of the disaster, for the fiscal year in which the disaster occurred and for the 3 succeeding fiscal years. The loan application shall be prepared by the affected local government and be approved by the GAR. FEMA has determined that a local government, in applying for a loan as a result of having suffered a substantial loss of tax and other revenue as a result of a major disaster, is not required to first seek credit elsewhere (see ยง 206.377(c)).

(2) The State exercises administrative authority over the local government's application. The State's review should include a determination that the applicant is legally qualified, under State law, to assume the proposed debt, and may include an overall review for accuracy of the submission. The GAR may request the Regional Administrator to waive the requirement for a State review if an otherwise eligible applicant is not subject to State administration authority and the State cannot legally participate in the loan application process.
