
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.376 Loan cancellation.
####### Revenue Calculation procedures.

(c)(1) If the tax rates and other revenues or the tax assessment valuation of property which was not damaged or destroyed by the disaster are reduced during the three full fiscal years subsequent to the major disaster, the tax rates and other revenues and tax assessment valuation factors applicable to such property in effect at the time of the major disaster shall be used without reduction for purposes of computing revenues received.

(2) At the applicant's discretion, the three-full-fiscal-year period following the disaster is either a 36-month period beginning on September 1, 2005 or the 36 months of the applicant's fiscal year as established before the disaster. If the applicant's fiscal year is changed within the 36 months immediately following the disaster, the actual period will be modified so that the required financial data submitted covers an inclusive 36-month period. Should the applicant elect the 36-month period beginning September 1, 2005, FEMA will prorate the revenues and expenses for the partial years based on the applicant's annual financial statements.

(3) If the local government transfers funds from its operating funds accounts to its capital funds account, utilizes operating funds for other than routine maintenance purposes, or significantly increases expenditures which are not disaster related, except increases due to inflation, the annual operating budget or operating statement expenditures will be reduced accordingly for purposes of evaluating any request for loan cancellation.

(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the amount of property taxes that are transferred to other funds for Debt Service or Pension Obligations funding will not be excluded from the calculation of the operating budget or from expenditures in calculation of the operating deficit, to the extent that the property tax revenues in the General Fund are less than they were pre-disaster. FEMA will consider the impact of the loss of property tax revenue in Debt Service or Pension Funds (non-operating funds) if all of the following conditions are met:

(i) The entity experienced a loss of property tax revenue as a result of the disaster and the assessed value during the three years following the disaster, in the aggregate, is less than the pre-disaster assessed value;

(ii) the entity has a property tax cap limitation on the ability to raise property taxes post-disaster; and

(iii) the property taxes are levied through the General Operating Fund and transfers for obligations mandated by law are made to fund Debt Service or Pension Obligations which result in the entity experiencing a reduction of property tax revenues in the General Fund.

(5) It is not the purpose of this loan program to underwrite pre-disaster budget or actual deficits of the local government. Consequently, such deficits carried forward will reduce any amounts otherwise eligible for loan cancellation.

(6) The provisions of this section apply to all Special Community Disaster loans issued from the dates of enactment of Public Law 109-88 and Public Law 109-234.
