
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.376 Loan cancellation.
####### Disaster-related expenses of a municipal operation character.

(d)(1) For purposes of this loan, unreimbursed expenses of a municipal operating character are those incurred for general government purposes, including but not limited to police and fire protection, trash collection, collection of revenues, maintenance of public facilities, flood and other hazard insurance.

(2) Disaster-related expenses do not include expenditures associated with debt service, any major repairs, rebuilding, replacement or reconstruction of public facilities or other capital projects, intragovernmental services, special assessments, and trust and agency fund operations. Disaster expenses which are eligible for reimbursement under project applications or other Federal programs are not eligible for loan cancellation.

(3) Each applicant shall maintain records including documentation necessary to identify expenditures for unreimbursed disaster-related expenses. Examples of such expenses include but are not limited to:

(i) Interest paid on money borrowed to pay amounts FEMA does not advance toward completion of approved Project Applications.

(ii) Unreimbursed costs to local governments for providing usable sites with utilities for mobile homes used to meet disaster temporary housing requirements.

(iii) Unreimbursed costs required for police and fire protection and other community services for mobile home parks established as the result of or for use following a disaster.

(iv) The cost to the applicant of flood insurance required under Public Law 93-234, as amended, and other hazard insurance required under section 311, Public Law 93-288, as amended, as a condition of Federal disaster assistance for the disaster under which the loan is authorized.

(4) The following expenses are not considered to be disaster-related for Special Community Disaster Loan purposes:

(i) The local government's share for assistance provided under the Stafford Act including flexible funding under section 406(c)(1) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 5172).

(ii) Improvements related to the repair or restoration of disaster public facilities approved on Project Applications.

(iii) Otherwise eligible costs for which no Federal reimbursement is requested as a part of the applicant's disaster response commitment, or cost sharing as specified in the FEMA-State Agreement for the disaster.

(iv) Expenses incurred by the local government which are reimbursed on the applicant's Project Application.
