
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.376 Loan cancellation.
####### Cancellation application.

(e)A local government which has drawn loan funds from the U.S. Treasury may request cancellation of the principal and related interest by submitting an Application for Loan Cancellation through the Governor's Authorized Representative to the Regional Administrator prior to the expiration date of the loan.

(1) Financial information submitted with the application shall include the following:

(i) Annual Operating Budgets for the fiscal year of the disaster and the three subsequent fiscal years;

(ii) Annual Financial Reports (Revenue and Expense and Balance Sheet) for each of the above fiscal years. Such financial records must include copies of the local government's annual financial reports, including operating statements and balance sheets and related consolidated and individual presentations for each fund account. In addition, the local government must include an explanatory statement when figures in the Application for Loan Cancellation form differ from those in the supporting financial reports.

(iii) The following additional information concerning annual real estate property taxes pertaining to the community for each of the above fiscal years:

(A) The market value of the tax base (dollars);

(B) The assessment ratio (percent);

(C) The assessed valuation (dollars);

(D) The tax levy rate (mils);

(E) Taxes levied and collected (dollars).

(iv) Audit reports for each of the above fiscal years certifying to the validity of the Operating Statements. The financial statements of the local government shall be examined in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by independent certified public accountants. The report should not include recommendations concerning loan cancellation or repayment.

(v) Other financial information specified in the Application for Loan Cancellation.
