
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart K - Community Disaster Loans
###### ยง 206.376 Loan cancellation.
####### Determination.

(f)(1) The Director of the Public Assistance Division will make a cancellation determination within 60 days of the date the applicant submits all required and requested information, including documentation in support of un-reimbursed disaster related expenses.

(2) If, based on a review of the Application for Loan Cancellation and FEMA audit, the Director of the Public Assistance Division determines that all or part of the Special Community Disaster Loan funds should be canceled, the amount of principal canceled and the related interest will be forgiven. The Director of the Public Assistance Division's determination concerning loan cancellation will specify that any uncancelled principal and related interest must be repaid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Promissory Note, and that, if repayment will constitute a financial hardship, the local government must submit for FEMA review and approval, a repayment schedule for settling the indebtedness on a timely basis. Such repayments must be made to the Treasurer of the United States and be sent to FEMA, Attention: Office of the Chief Financial Officer.

(3) A loan or cancellation of a loan does not reduce or affect other disaster-related grants or other disaster assistance. However, no cancellation may be made that would result in a duplication of benefits to the applicant.

(4) The uncancelled portion of the loan must be repaid in accordance with ยง 206.377.
