
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart N - Hazard Mitigation Grant Program
###### ยง 206.436 Application procedures.
####### Hazard mitigation application.

(c)Upon identification of mitigation measures, the State (Governor's Authorized Representative) will submit its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program application to the FEMA Regional Administrator. The application will identify one or more mitigation measures for which funding is requested. The application must include a Standard Form (SF) 424, Application for Federal Assistance, SF 424D, Assurances for Construction Programs, if appropriate, and a narrative statement. The narrative statement will contain any pertinent project management information not included in the State's administrative plan for Hazard Mitigation. The narrative statement will also serve to identify the specific mitigation measures for which funding is requested. Information required for each mitigation measure must include the following:

(1) Name of the subrecipient, if any;

(2) State or local contact for the measure;

(3) Location of the project;

(4) Description of the measure;

(5) Cost estimate for the measure;

(6) Analysis of the measure's cost-effectiveness and substantial risk reduction, consistent with ยง 206.434(c);

(7) Work schedule;

(8) Justification for selection;

(9) Alternatives considered;

(10) Environmental information consistent with 44 CFR part 9, Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands, and other applicable environmental and historic preservation laws, regulations, Executive Orders, and agency policy.
