
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 206 - FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart N - Hazard Mitigation Grant Program
###### ยง 206.438 Project management.
####### Cost overruns.

(b)During the execution of work on an approved mitigation measure the Governor's Authorized Representative may find that actual project costs are exceeding the approved estimates. Cost overruns which can be met without additional Federal funds, or which can be met by offsetting cost underruns on other projects, need not be submitted to the Regional Administrator for approval, so long as the full scope of work on all affected projects can still be met. For cost overruns which exceed Federal obligated funds and which require additional Federal funds, the Governor's Authorized Representative will evaluate each cost overrun and submit a request with a recommendation to the Regional Administrator for a determination. The applicant's justification for additional costs and other pertinent material must accompany the request. The Regional Administrator will notify the Governor's Authorized Representative in writing of the determination and process a supplement, if necessary. All requests that are not justified must be denied by the Governor's Authorized Representative. In no case will the total amount obligated to the State exceed the funding limits set forth in ยง 206.432(b). Any such problems or circumstances affecting project costs must be identified through the quarterly progress reports required in paragraph (c) of this section.
