
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Disaster Assistance
#### PART 207 - MANAGEMENT COSTS
##### ยง 207.8 Management cost funding oversight.
###### Period of availability.

(b)(1) For major disaster declarations, the grantee may expend management cost funds for allowable costs for a maximum of 8 years from the date of the major disaster declaration or 180 days after the latest performance period date of a non-management cost PA PW or HMGP project narrative, respectively, whichever is sooner.

(2) For emergency declarations, the grantee may expend management cost funds for allowable costs for a maximum of 2 years from the date of the emergency declaration or 180 days after the latest performance period of a non-management cost PA PW, whichever is sooner.

(3) The period of availability may be extended only at the written request of the grantee, with the recommendation of the Regional Administrator, and with the approval of the Chief Financial Officer. The grantee must include a justification in its request for an extension, and must demonstrate that there is work in progress that can be completed within the extended period of availability. In no case will an extended period of availability allow more than 180 days after the expiration of any performance period extensions granted under PA or HMGP for project completion. FEMA will deobligate any funds not liquidated by the grantee in accordance with 2 CFR 200.309 and 200.343(b).
