
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Fire Assistance
#### PART 295 - CERRO GRANDE FIRE ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart B - Bringing a Claim Under the CGFAA
###### ยง 295.13 Subrogation.

An insurer or other third party with the rights of a subrogee, who has compensated an Injured Person for Cerro Grande Fire related losses, may file a Subrogation Notice of Loss under the CGFAA for the subrogated claim. An insurer or other third party with the rights of a subrogee may file a Subrogation Notice of Loss without regard to whether the Injured Party who received payment from the insurer or third party filed a Notice of Loss. A Subrogation Notice of Loss may not be filed until the insurer or other party with the rights of a subrogee has made all payments that it believes the Injured Person is entitled to receive for Cerro Grande Fire related losses under the terms of the insurance policy or other agreement between the insurer or other party with the rights of a subrogee and the Injured Person. By filing a Subrogation Notice of Loss for any subrogated claim, the insurer or third party elects the CGFAA as its exclusive remedy against the United States for all subrogated claims arising out of the Cerro Grande Fire. Subrogation claims must be made on a Subrogation Notice of Loss form furnished by OCGFC. FEMA will evaluate subrogation claims on their merits. FEMA may reimburse insurers and other third parties with the rights of a subrogee for reasonable payments made to an Injured Party on or before October 25, 2000, which exceeded or were not required by the terms of the insurance policy or other agreement creating a right of subrogation. FEMA will not reimburse insurers and other third parties with the rights of a subrogee for payments made to an Injured Party after October 25, 2000 that exceeded or are not required by the terms of the insurance policy or other agreement creating a right of subrogation.
