
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Fire Assistance
#### PART 295 - CERRO GRANDE FIRE ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Claims Evaluation
###### ยง 295.30 Establishing losses and damages.
####### Proof of Loss.

(b)All Claimants are required to attest to the nature and extent of each Loss for which compensation is sought in the Proof of Loss. The Proof of Loss, which will be in a form specified by OCGFC, must be signed by the Claimant or the Claimant's legal representative if the Claimant is a not an individual or is an individual who lacks the legal capacity to execute the Proof of Loss. The Proof of Loss must be signed under penalty of perjury and subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C.1001, which establishes penalties for false statements. Non-subrogation Claimants who filed a Notice of Loss before January 1, 2001 should submit a signed Proof of Loss to OCGFC not later than June 19, 2001. Non-subrogation Claimants who file a Notice of Loss on or after January 1, 2001 should submit a signed Proof of Loss to OCGFC not later than 150 days after the date when the Notice of Loss was submitted. These deadlines may be extended at the discretion of the Director of OCGFC for good cause. If a non-subrogation Claimant fails to submit a signed Proof of Loss within the timeframes set forth in this section and does not obtain an extension from the Director of OCGFC, OCGFC may administratively close the claim and require the Claimant to repay any partial payments made on the claim. Subrogation Claimants will submit the Proof of Loss contemporaneously with filing the Notice of Loss.
