
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Fire Assistance
#### PART 295 - CERRO GRANDE FIRE ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart D - Claims Evaluation
###### ยง 295.31 Reimbursement of claim expenses.

(a) FEMA will reimburse Claimants for the reasonable costs they incur in copying documentation requested by OCGFC. FEMA will also reimburse Claimants for the reasonable costs they incur in providing appraisals, or other third-party opinions, requested by OCGFC. FEMA will not reimburse Claimant for the cost of appraisals, or other third party opinions, not requested by OCGFC.

(b) FEMA will provide a lump sum payment for incidental expenses incurred in claims preparation to individual and business Claimants that are awarded compensatory damages under the CGFAA after a properly executed Release and Certification Form has been returned to OCGFC. The amount of the lump sum payment will be the greater of $100 or 5% of CGFAA compensatory damages and insurance proceeds recovered by the Claimant for Cerro Grande Fire related losses (not including the lump sum payment or monies reimbursed under the CGFAA for the purchase of flood insurance), but will not exceed $15,000. No more than one lump sum payment will be made to all Claimants in a Household, regardless of whether the Household filed separate or combined Notices of Loss. The following Claimants will not be eligible to receive the lump sum payment: subrogation Claimants and Claimants whose only Cerro Grande Fire related loss is for flood insurance premiums.
