
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
##### § 9.5 Scope.
###### shall apply steps 1, 2, 4, 5 and 8

(d) For each action enumerated below, the Regional Administratorof the decision-making process (§§ 9.7, 9.8, 9.10 and 9.11, see § 9.6). Steps 3 and 6 (§ 9.9) shall be carried out except that alternative sites outside the floodplain or wetland need not be considered. After assessing impacts of the proposed action on the floodplain or wetlands and of the site on the proposed action, alternative actions to the proposed action, if any, and the "no action" alternative shall be considered. The Regional Administrator may also require certain other portions of the decision-making process to be carried out for individual actions as is deemed necessary. For any action which is excluded from the actions listed below. (except as indicated in paragraphs (c), (f) and (g) of this section regarding other categories of partial or total exclusion), the full 8-step process applies (see § 9.6). The references are to the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, Public Law 93-288, as amended.

(1) Actions performed under the Individual and Family Grant Program (section 408) for restoring or repairing a private bridge, except where two or more individuals or families are authorized to pool their grants for this purpose.

(2) Small project grants (section 419), except to the extent that Federal funding involved is used for construction of new facilities or structures.

(3) Replacement of building contents, materials and equipment. (sections 402 and 419).

(4) Repairs under section 402 to damaged facilities or structures, except any such action for which one or more of the following is applicable:

(i) FEMA estimated cost of repairs is more than 50% of the estimated reconstruction cost of the entire facility or structure, or is more than $100,000, or

(ii) The action is located in a floodway or coastal high hazard area, or

(iii) The facility or structure is one which has previously sustained structural damage from flooding due to a major disaster or emergency or on which a flood insurance claim has been paid, or

(iv) The action is a critical action.
