
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
##### ยง 9.5 Scope.
###### The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).

(f)(1) Most of what is done by FIA or the Mitigation Directorate, in administering the National Flood Insurance Program is performed on a program-wide basis. For all regulations, procedures or other issuances making or amending program policy, FIA or the Mitigation Directorate, shall apply the 8-step decision-making process to that program-wide action. The action to which the 8-step process must be applied is the establishment of programmatic standards or criteria, not the application of programmatic standards or criteria to specific situations. Thus, for example, FIA or the Mitigation Directorate, would apply the 8-step process to a programmatic determination of categories of structures to be insured, but not to whether to insure each individual structure. The two prime examples of where FIA or the Mitigation Directorate, does take site specific actions which would require individual application of the 8-step process are property acquisition under section 1362 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, and the issuance of an exception to a community under 44 CFR 60.6(b). (See also ยง 9.9(e)(6) and ยง 9.11(e).)

(2) The provisions set forth in this regulation are not applicable to the actions enumerated below except that the Federal Insurance Administrator or the Assistant Administrator for Mitigation, as appropriate shall comply with the spirit of the Orders to the extent practicable:

(i) The issuance of individual flood insurance policies and policy interpretations;

(ii) The adjustment of claims made under the Standard Flood Insurance Policy;

(iii) The hiring of independent contractors to assist in the implementation of the National Flood Insurance Program;

(iv) The issuance of individual flood insurance maps, Map Information Facility map determinations, and map amendments; and

(v) The conferring of eligibility for emergency or regular program (NFIP) benefits upon communities.
