
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Fire Assistance
#### PART 296 - HERMIT'S PEAK/CALF CANYON FIRE ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 296.5 Overview of the claims process.

(a) The Act is intended to provide persons who suffered Injury from the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire with a simple, expedited process to seek compensation from the United States. This section provides a brief explanation of the claims process for claims other than subrogation claims. It is not intended to supersede the more specific regulations that follow and explain the claims process in greater detail. To obtain compensation under the Act, an Injured Person must submit all Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire related claims against the United States or any employee, officer, or agency of the United States to the FEMA Claims Office. An Injured Person who elects to accept an award under the Act is barred from accepting an award pursuant to a claim under the Federal Tort Claims Act or a civil action against the United States or any employee, officer, or agency of the United States arising out of or relating to the same subject matter. Judicial review of FEMA decisions under the Act is available.

(b) The first step in the process is to file a Notice of Loss with the Claims Office. The Claims Office will provide the claimant with a written acknowledgement that the claim has been filed and a claim number.

(c) Shortly thereafter, a Claims Reviewer will contact the claimant to review the claim. Claims Reviewer will help the claimant formulate a strategy for obtaining any necessary documentation or other support. This assistance does not relieve the claimant of their responsibility for establishing all elements of the injuries and the compensatory damages that are sought, including that the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire caused the injuries. After the claimant has had an opportunity to discuss the claim with the Claims Reviewer, a Proof of Loss will be presented to the claimant for signature. After any necessary documentation has been obtained and the claim has been fully evaluated, the Claims Reviewer will submit a report to the Authorized Official. The Claims Reviewer is responsible for providing an objective evaluation of the claim to the Authorized Official.

(d) The Authorized Official will review the report and determine whether compensation is due to the claimant. The claimant will be notified in writing of the Authorized Official's determination. If the claimant is satisfied with the decision, payment will be made after the claimant returns a completed Release and Certification Form. If the claimant is dissatisfied with the Authorized Official's determination, an administrative appeal may be filed with the Director of the Claims Office. If the claimant remains dissatisfied after the appeal is decided, the dispute may be resolved through binding arbitration or heard in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico.
