
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Fire Assistance
#### PART 296 - HERMIT'S PEAK/CALF CANYON FIRE ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart C - Compensation Available Under the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire Assistance Act
###### ยง 296.21 Allowable damages.
####### Subsistence.

(4)Compensatory damages will be awarded for lost Subsistence Resources.

(i) FEMA may reimburse an injured party for the reasonable cost of replacing Subsistence Resources customarily and traditionally used by the claimant on or before April 6, 2022, but no longer available to the claimant as a result of the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire. For each category of Subsistence Resources, the claimant must elect to receive compensatory damages either for the increased cost of obtaining Subsistence Resources from lands not damaged by the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire or for the cost of procuring substitute resources in the cash economy.

(ii) FEMA may consider evidence submitted by claimants, Indian Tribes, and other knowledgeable sources in determining the nature and extent of a claimant's subsistence uses.

(iii) Compensatory damages for subsistence losses will be paid for the period between April 6, 2022 and the date when Subsistence Resources can reasonably be expected to return to the level of availability that existed before the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire. FEMA may rely upon the advice of experts in making this determination.

(iv) Long-term damage awards for subsistence resources will be made to claimants in the form of lump sum cash payments.
