
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 302 - CIVIL DEFENSE-STATE AND LOCAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EMA)
##### ยง 302.3 Documentation of eligibility.
###### State administrative plans.

(a)Every State has a State administrative plan file with FEMA and is required to keep the plan current through amendments as necessary. Such plans and amendments shall be reviewed by the Regional Administrator, who will advise the State in writing as to the effect, if any, changes will have on the continued eligibility of the State and its subgrantees. The Regional Administrator shall not, however, approve any amendments that would result in failure of the plan to meet these criteria:

(1) Provides for and is, pursuant to State law, in effect in all political subdivision of the State, mandatory on them, and, unless waived by the Administrator under section 204 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4214), administered or supervised by a single State administrative agency. In demonstrating that the State administrative plan for civil defense is in effect in all political subdivisions of the State and mandatory on them, the plan shall contain references to the applicable State statutes and local ordinances, executive orders and directives, and rules and regulations at the State and local level that establish the civil defense authority, structure, plans, and procedures, including those relating to emergency operations, throughout the State.

(2) Provides assurance of nonFederal contributions at least equal to Federal funding for necessary and essential costs eligible under this program from any source consistent with State law, but not from another Federal source unless Federal law specifically authorizes the use of funds from such Federal source as part of the State's share.

(3) Provides for the development of State and local government civil defense emergency operations plans pursuant to the standards approved by the Administrator.

(4) Provides for the employment by the State of full-time civil defense director or deputy director.

(5) Provides for the establishment and maintenance of methods of personnel administration in public agencies administering or supervising the civil defense program, at both the State and local government levels, in conformity with the Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration (5 CFR part 900), which incorporate the Intergovernmental Personnel Act Merit Principles (Pub. L. 91-648, section 2, 84 Stat. 1908) prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management pursuant to section 208 of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970, as amended.

(6) Provides for the establishment of safeguards to prohibit State and local government employees from using their positions for a purpose that is or gives the appearance of being motivated by desire for private gain for themselves or others, particularly those with whom they have family, business, or other ties.

(7) Provides that the State shall make such reports (including without limitation financial reports) in such form and content as the Administrator may require.

(8) Provides that the State and all subgrantees shall retain, in accordance with OMB Circular A-102, and make available to duly authorized representatives of the Administrator and the U.S. Comptroller General all books, records, and papers pertinent to the grant program for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts necessary to conduct audits.

(9) Provides for establishment and maintenance of a financial management system of grant-supported activities of the State and all subgrantees which meets the federally prescribed standards promulgated in "Standards for Grantee Financial Management Systems," Attachment G of OMB Circular A-102.

(10) Provides for establishment and maintenance of procedures for monitoring and reporting grant program and project performance of the State and its subgrantees which meet the federally prescribed standards promulgated in Attachment I of OMB Circular A-102.

(11) Provides for the establishment and maintenance at the State level and by subgrantees of property management systems in accordance with the federally prescribed standards set forth in Attachment N of OMB Circular A-102.

(12) Provides for the establishment and maintenance at the State level and by subgrantees of systems for the procurement of supplies, equipment, construction, and other services, with the assistance of grant funds, in accordance with federally prescribed standards set forth in Attachment O of OMB Circular A-102.

(13) Provides for disbursement of the appropriate share of the Federal grant to the State's subgrantees in accordance with requirements detailed in CPG 1-3.

(14) Provides for the State's supervision and review of the civil defense plans, programs, and operations of its subgrantees to obtain conformity and compliance with Federal requirements and goals set forth or referenced in the regulations in this part and as detailed in CPG 1-3.

(15) Contains a Statement of Compliance with grantor agency regulations relating to nondiscrimination in FEMA programs (see 44 CFR part 7).

(16) Provides for timely submission to the appropriate Regional Administrator of amendments to the administrative plan as necessary to reflect the current laws, regulation, criteria, plans, methods, practices, and procedures for administration of the State's civil defense program and those of its subgrantees.

(17) Conforms to other Federal standards and requirements set forth or referenced in the regulations in this part and as detailed in CPG 1-3.

(18) Provides for performance of independent organizationwide audits by State and local governments that receive EMA funds of their financial operations, including compliance with certain provisions of Federal law and regulation.
