
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 302 - CIVIL DEFENSE-STATE AND LOCAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EMA)
##### ยง 302.3 Documentation of eligibility.
###### Appeals.

(g)(1) Appeal from a Regional Administrator's disapproval of a State administrative plan or an annual submission or other final action as unjustified under the criteria in CPG 1-3 may be made by letter to the Deputy Administrator for the National Preparedness Directorate, signed by an authorized State official and submitted through the Regional Administrator. Such appeal letter shall be mailed or otherwise transmitted so as to reach the Regional Administrator within 30 days after receipt of the notification of disapproval. Failure to file its appeal on time may result in withdrawal of the State's allocation and the proposed funding being reallocated by the Administrator.

(2) A local jurisdiction that regards the final action on its subgrant made by a State as unjustified under the criteria in CPG 1-3 may submit an appeal through the State to the Regional Administrator. Upon receipt of such an appeal, the RegionalAdministrator shall forward the letter, together with all available pertinent documentation from the Regional Administrator's files and any additional documentation submitted by the local jurisdiction in support of its appeal, to the Deputy Administrator for the National Preparedness Directorate, for review and determination. The appeal shall contain all of the exceptions being taken by the State or local jurisdiction, and no exceptions will be determined piecemeal.

(3) No portion of the appellant State's allocation shall be reallocated by FEMA, and no portion of a local jurisdiction's allocation shall be reallocated by the State, pending determination of its appeal by the Administrator. The State and local jurisdiction (if applicable) will be notified in writing of the Administrator's decision, including a statement of the reasons therefor.
