
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 321 - MAINTENANCE OF THE MOBILIZATION BASE (DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, MARITIME ADMINISTRATION)
##### ยง 321.3 Maintaining the mobilization base.
###### Privately-owned facilities and government-owned tools.

(ii)(A) Arrange with management of privately-owned facilities, wherever possible, to place government-owned tools and production equipment in the status provided by DMO-VII-4, as amended, taking into account the desirability of safe location.

(B) Arrange with management, on a voluntary basis, to keep a group of key managers, engineers, and skilled workers familiar with the items planned for mobilization production.

(C) Determine the gaps which exist in government-owned packages of tools and production equipment needed to produce mobilization requirements in privately-owned plants. Within the limit of fund availability, plan the procurement of such tools and equipment with priority being given to long lead-time tools and equipment or those not used in general manufacturing. These tools and equipment, when procured, should be placed in the status provided by DMO-VII-4, as amended, taking into account the desirability of safe locations.

(D) Determine which government-owned tools and equipment have become obsolete, or which would not be used in event of mobilization, and plan for their disposal in accordance with the provisions of DMO-VII-4, as amended.
