
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 323 - GUIDANCE ON PRIORITY USE OF RESOURCES IN IMMEDIATE POST ATTACK PERIOD (DMO-4)
##### ยง 323.4 Priority activities in immediate postattack period.

The following activities are to be accorded priority over all other claims for resources. There is no significance in the order of the listing-all are important. The order in which and the extent to which they are supported locally may vary with local conditions and circumstances. If local conditions necessitate the establishment of an order of priority among these activities, that order shall be based on determinations of relative urgency among the activities listed, the availability of resources for achieving the actions required, and the feasibility and timeliness of the activities in making the most rapid and effective contribution to national survival.

(a) The immediate defense and retaliatory combat operations of the Armed Forces of the United States and its Allies: This includes support of military personnel and the production and distribution of military and atomic weapons, materials and equipment required to carry out these immediate defense and retaliatory combat operations.

(b) Maintenance or reestablishment of Government authority and control to restore and preserve order and to assure direction of emergency operations essential for the safety and protection of the people. This includes:

(1) Police protection and movement direction;

(2) Fire defense, rescue and debris clearance;

(3) Warnings;

(4) Emergency information and instructions;

(5) Radiological detection, monitoring and decontamination.

(c) Production and distribution of survival items and provision of services essential to continued survival and rapid recovery. (For list of survival items, see appendix 1 to this part.) These include:

(1) Expedient shelter;

(2) Food, including necessary processing and storage;

(3) Feeding, clothing, lodging, and other welfare services;

(4) Emergency housing and community services;

(5) Emergency health services, including medical care, public health and sanitation;

(6) Water, fuel, and power supply;

(7) Emergency repair and restoration of damaged vital facilities.

(d) Essential communications and transportation services needed to carry out the above activities.

(e) Provision of supplies, equipment, and repair parts to produce and distribute goods needed for the above activities.
