
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 323 - GUIDANCE ON PRIORITY USE OF RESOURCES IN IMMEDIATE POST ATTACK PERIOD (DMO-4)
##### Appendix 1 to Part 323 - List of Essential Survival Items

This document contains a list of items considered essential to sustain life at a productive level to assure national survival in an emergency. The list identifies items to which major attention should be given in all phases of preattack planning to insure the availability of basic essentials for a productive economy in the event of a nuclear attack. Supply-requirements studies and assessments for these items will be made to disclose critical deficiencies or other problems that can be anticipated. Revisions will be made as necessary to keep the items as up-to-date as possible.

The items are arranged by seven major groups:

(1) Health Supplies and Equipment,

(2) Food,

(3) Body Protection and Household Operations,

(4) Electric Power and Fuels,

(5) Sanitation and Water Supply,

(6) Emergency Housing and Construction Materials and Equipment, and

(7) General Use Items.

Survival items are defined as "those items without which large segments of the population would die or have their health so seriously impaired as to render them both burdensome and non-productive." The items have been classified into Group A or Group B, with Group A representing end products consumed or used directly by the population, and Group B consisting of those items essential to the effective production and utilization of the Group A items, which are consumed or used directly by the people.

There are no Group B items in the categories of Health Supplies and Equipment, Body Production and Household Operations, and Emergency Housing and Construction Materials and Equipment. All of these items are considered to be consumed directly and any attempt to separate them in to A and B groupings would be too arbitrary to be meaningful.

It is important to keep in mind the fact that while the items listed are the basic essentials necessary for maintaining a viable economy during the first six months following an attack, not all of them would create problems that would require government action preattack to insure adequate supplies. The aforementioned supply-requirements studies will be undertaken to identify the problem areas. In developing supply data, all available production capacity, existing inventories, and possible substitutions will be considered. For example, in analyzing clothing items, all available supplies would be considered from sport to dress shirts, from overalls to dress suits. However, new production would be limited to the simplest form of the basic item which can be produced. The final determination as to which of the items are most critical and which may require preattack actions by the Government, as well as the type of actions which must be taken, can be made only after a comprehensive supply-requirements analysis is completed.
