
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 327 - POLICY ON USE OF GOVERNMENT-OWNED INDUSTRIAL PLANT EQUIPMENT BY PRIVATE INDUSTRY (DMO-10A)
##### ยง 327.3 Policy.
###### General.

(a)(1) Primary reliance for defense production shall be placed upon private industry.

(2) When it is determined by an agency that, because of the lack of specific industrial plant equipment, private industry of the United States cannot be relied upon for needed Government production, that agency may provide to private industry such Government-owned industrial plant equipment as is deemed necessary to ensure required production capability. Requirements for such equipment should be reviewed at least annually to ascertain the continuing need, particularly with a view toward private industry furnishing the equipment for long term requirements.

(3) When it is necessary for Federal agencies to supply Government-owned industrial plant equipment to private industry, these agencies will maintain uniformity and fairness in the arrangements for the use of this equipment by following regulations for the use of such equipment as developed and published by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 809 of Public Law 93-155. The regulations to be developed by the Secretary of Defense shall be in consonance with this order. These regulations will attempt to ensure that no Government contractor is afforded an advantage over his competitors and that Government-owned industrial plant equipment is maintained properly and kept immediately available for the emergency preparedness needs of the United States.
