
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 332 - VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS UNDER SECTION 708 OF THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950, AS AMENDED
##### ยง 332.1 General provisions.
###### Sponsor.

(b)(1) As used in this part, "sponsor" of a voluntary agreement is an officer of the Government who, pursuant to a delegation or redelegation of the functions given to the President by section 708 of the Defense Production Act (DPA) of 1950, as amended, proposes or otherwise provides for the development or carrying out of a voluntary agreement.

(2) The use of voluntary agreements, as authorized by section 708 of the DPA to help provide for the defense of the United States through the development of preparedness programs, is an activity coordinated by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as provided by sections 101 and 501(a) of Executive Order 10480, as amended.

(3) The sponsor of a voluntary agreement shall carry out sponsorship functions subject to the direction and control of the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

(c) This part applies to the development and carrying out under section 708 of the DPA, as amended, of all voluntary agreements, and the carrying out of any voluntary agreement which was entered into under former section 708 of the DPA and in effect immediately prior to April 14, 1976, and which is in a period of extension as authorized by subsection 708(f)(2) of the DPA.

(d) The rules in the part void any provision of a voluntary agreement to which they apply, if that provision is contrary to or inconsistent with them. Each voluntary agreement shall be construed as containing every substantive provision that these rules require, whether or not a particular provision is included in the agreement.

(e) Pursuant to subsection 708(d) of the DPA, the sponsor may establish such advisory committees as he deems to be necessary for developing or carrying out voluntary agreements. Such advisory committees shall comply with this part as well as with the requirements and procedures of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Pub. L. 92-463, as amended).
