
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 332 - VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS UNDER SECTION 708 OF THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950, AS AMENDED
##### ยง 332.3 Carrying out voluntary agreements.
###### Conduct of meetings held to carry out an agreement.

(c)(1) The sponsor of a voluntary agreement shall initiate, or approve in advance, each meeting of the participants in the agreement held to discuss problems, determine policies, recommend actions, and make decisions necessary to carry out the agreement.

(2) The sponsor shall provide to the Attorney General, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency adequate prior notice of the time, place, and nature of each meeting, and a proposed agenda of each meeting. The sponsor shall also publish in thereasonably in advance of each meeting, a notice of time, place, and nature of the meeting. If the sponsor has determined, pursuant to ยง 332.5 of this part, to limit attendance at the meeting, the sponsor shall publish thisnotice within ten days of the meeting.

(3) Any interested person may attend a meeting held to carry out a voluntary agreement unless the sponsor has restricted attendance pursuant to ยง 332.5 of this part. A person attending a meeting under this section may present oral or written data, views, and arguments to any limitations on the manner of presentation that the sponsor may impose.

(4) No meeting shall be held to carry out any voluntary agreement unless a Federal employee, other than an individual employed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, is in attendance. Any meeting to carry out a voluntary agreement may be attended by the sponsor of the agreement, the Attorney General, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or their delegates.

(5) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a meeting between a single participant and the sponsor solely to deliver or exchange information is not subject to the requirements and procedures of this section, provided that a copy of the information is promptly delivered to the Attorney General, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
