
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 333 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - Priorities and Placement of Rated Orders
###### ยง 333.13 Acceptance and rejection of rated orders.
####### Customer notification requirements.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a person must accept or reject a rated order in written electronic format within 15 working days after receipt of a DO rated order and within 10 working days after receipt of a DX rated order. If the order is rejected, the person must give reasons in written electronic format for the rejection.

(2) If a rated order is placed for the purpose of emergency preparedness requirements and expedited action is necessary or appropriate to meet these requirements and the order includes the statement set forth in ยง 333.12(b), a person must accept or reject the rated order and transmit the acceptance or rejection in written electronic format within the time specified in the rated order. The minimum times for acceptance or rejection that such orders may specify are 6 hours after receipt of the order if the order is issued by an authorized person in response to a hazard that has occurred, or 12 hours after receipt if the order is issued by an authorized person to prepare for an imminent hazard.

(3) If a person has accepted a rated order and subsequently finds that shipment or performance will be delayed, the person must notify the customer immediately, give the reasons for the delay, and advise of a new shipment or performance date. If notification is given verbally, written electronic confirmation must be provided within 24 hours of the verbal notice.
