
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 333 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - Priorities and Placement of Rated Orders
###### ยง 333.16 Changes or cancellations of priority ratings and rated orders.

(a) The priority rating on a rated order may be changed or cancelled by:

(1) An official action of FEMA; or

(2) Written electronic notification from the person who placed the rated order (including a Delegate Agency).

(b) If an unrated order is amended so as to make it a rated order, or a DO rating is changed to a DX rating, the supplier must give the appropriate preferential treatment to the order as of the date the change is received by the supplier.

(c) An amendment to a rated order that significantly alters a supplier's original production or delivery schedule shall constitute a new rated order as of the date of its receipt. The supplier must accept or reject the amended order according to the provisions of ยง 333.13.

(d) The following amendments do not constitute a new rated order: A change in shipping destination; A reduction in the total amount of the order; an increase in the total amount of the order which has negligible impact upon deliveries; a minor variation in size or design (prior to the start of production); or a change which is agreed upon between the supplier and the customer.

(e) A person must cancel any rated orders that the person (or a predecessor in interest) has placed with suppliers or cancel the priority ratings on those orders if the person no longer needs the items in those orders to fill a rated order.

(f) A person adding a rating to an unrated order, or changing or cancelling a priority rating must promptly provide written electronic notification to all suppliers to whom the order was sent of the addition, change, or cancellation.
