
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 333 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart E - Special Priorities Assistance
###### § 333.20 General provisions.

(a) EMPAS is designed to be largely self-executing. However, if production or delivery problems arise, a person should immediately contact FEMA (or the Delegate Agency, as appropriate) for special priorities assistance pursuant to §§ 333.20 through 333.24 and as directed by § 333.83. If FEMA (or the Delegate Agency, as appropriate) is unable to resolve the problem or to authorize the use of a priority rating and believes additional assistance is warranted, FEMA (or the Delegate Agency, as appropriate) may forward the request to another resource agency, as appropriate, for action. Special priorities assistance is a service provided to alleviate problems.

(b) Special priorities assistance can be provided for any reason consistent with this part, such as assisting in obtaining timely deliveries of items needed to satisfy rated orders or authorizing the use of priority ratings on orders to obtain items not otherwise ratable under this part. Special priorities assistance may also be used to request rating authority for items that are not normally eligible for priority treatment.

(c) A request for special priorities assistance or priority rating authority may be submitted on FEMA Form 009-0-142 (OMB control number 1660-0149) to FEMA. Form 009-0-142 may be obtained from the Delegate Agency or from FEMA.
