
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
##### ยง 9.11 Mitigation.
###### Minimization Standards.

(d)In its implementation of the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, the Agency shall apply at a minimum, the following standards to its actions to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c), of this section, (except as provided in ยง 9.5 (c), (d), and (g) regarding categories of partial or total exclusion). Any Agency action to which the following specific requirements do not apply, shall nevertheless be subject to the full 8-step process (ยง 9.6) including the general requirement to minimize harm to and within floodplains:

(1) There shall be no new construction or substantial improvement in a floodway, and no new construction in a coastal high hazard area, except for:

(i) A functionally dependent use; or

(ii) A structure or facility which facilitates an open space use.

(2) For a structure which is a functionally dependent use, or which facilitates an open space use, the following applies. There shall be no construction of a new or substantially improved structure in a coastal high hazard area unless it is elevated on adequately anchored pilings or columns, and securely anchored to such piles or columns so that the lowest portion of the structural members of the lowest floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to or above the base flood level (the 500-year flood level for critical actions) (including wave height). The structure shall be anchored so as to withstand velocity waters and hurricane wave wash. The Regional Administrator shall be responsible for determining the base flood level, including the wave height, in all cases. Where there is a FIRM in effect, it shall be the basis of the Regional Administrator's determination. If the FIRM does not reflect wave heights, or if there is no FIRM in effect, the Regional Administrator is responsible for delineating the base flood level, including wave heights.
