
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 333 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart J - Adjustments, Exceptions, and Appeals
###### ยง 333.71 Appeals.
####### FEMA-DPA@fema.dhs.gov,

(a) Any person who has had a request for adjustment or exception denied by FEMA under ยง 333.70 may appeal to the Administrator, who shall review and reconsider the denial. Such appeals should be submitted to the Office of Policy and Programs atRef: EMPAS Appeals.

(b)(1) Appeals of denied requests for exceptions from or adjustments to compliance with the provisions of this part or an official action must be received by FEMA no later than 45 days after receipt of a written notice of denial from FEMA. After this 45-day period, an appeal may be accepted at the discretion of the Administrator.

(2) For requests for adjustment or exception involving rated orders placed for the purpose of emergency preparedness in response to a hazard that has occurred or is imminent, an appeal must be received by FEMA no later than 15 days after receipt of a written notice of denial.

(c) Each appeal must be in writing and contain a complete statement of all the facts and circumstances related to the action appealed from and a full and precise statement of the reasons the decision should be modified or reversed.

(d) In addition to the written materials submitted in support of an appeal, an appellant may request, in writing, an opportunity for an informal hearing. This request may be granted or denied at the discretion of the Administrator.

(e) When a hearing is granted, the Administrator may designate an employee of FEMA to conduct the hearing and to prepare a report. The hearing officer shall determine all procedural questions and impose such time or other limitations deemed reasonable. In the event that the hearing officer decides that a printed transcript is necessary, all expenses shall be borne by the appellant.

(f) When determining an appeal, the Administrator may consider all information submitted during the appeal as well as any recommendations, reports, or other relevant information and documents available to FEMA, or consult with any other persons or groups.

(g) The submission of an appeal under this section shall not relieve any person from the obligation of complying with the provisions of this part or official action in question while the appeal is being considered, unless such relief is granted in writing by the Administrator.

(h) The decision of the Administrator shall be made within a reasonable time after receipt of the appeal and shall be the final administrative action. It shall be issued to the appellant in writing with a statement of the reasons for the decision.
