
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 333 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart K - Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 333.81 Records and reports.

(a) Persons are required to make and preserve for at least three years, accurate and complete records of any transaction covered by this part or an official action.

(b) Records must be maintained in sufficient detail to permit the determination, upon examination, of whether each transaction complies with the provisions of this part or any official action. However, this part does not specify any particular method or system to be used.

(c) Records required to be maintained by this part must be made available for examination on demand by duly authorized representatives of FEMA as provided in ยง 333.61.

(d) In addition, persons must develop, maintain, and submit any other records and reports to FEMA that may be required for the administration of the Defense Production Act and other applicable statutes, and this part.

(e) Under section 705(d) of the Act and the ultimate delegation of that authority to the FEMA Administrator, information obtained under section 705 of the Act which the Administrator deems confidential, or with reference to which a request for confidential treatment is made by the person furnishing such information, shall not be published or disclosed unless the Administrator determines that the withholding of this information is contrary to the interest of the national defense. Information required to be submitted to FEMA in connection with the enforcement or administration of the Act, this part, or an official action, is deemed to be confidential under section 705(d) of the Act and shall not be published or disclosed except as required by applicable Federal law.
