
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 334 - GRADUATED MOBILIZATION RESPONSE
##### ยง 334.2 Policy.

(a) As established in Executive Order 12656, the policy of the United States is to have sufficient emergency response capabilities at all levels of government to meet essential defense and civilian needs during any national security emergency. Accordingly, each Federal department and agency shall prepare its national security emergency preparedness plans and programs to respond adequately and in a timely manner to all national security emergencies.

(b) As part of emergency response, the GMR system should be incorporated in each department's and agency's emergency preparedness plans and programs to provide appropriate and effective response options for consideration in reacting to ambiguous and specific warnings.

(c) Departments and agencies will be provided early warning information developed by the intelligence community and policy statements of the President.

(d) Emergency resource preparedness planning is essential to ensure that the nation is adequately prepared to respond to potential national emergencies. Such emergency resource preparedness planning requires an exchange of information and planning factors among the various departments and agencies responsible for different resource preparedness actitivities.

(e) To carry out their emergency planning activities, civilian departments and agencies require the Department of Defense's (DOD) assessment of potential military demands that would be made on the economy in a full range of possible national security emergencies. Similarly, DOD planning should be conducted using planning regimes consistent with the policies and plans of the civilian resource departments and agencies.

(f) Under section 104(c) of Executive Order 12656, FEMA is responsible for coordinating the implementation of national emergency preparedness policy with Federal departments and agencies and with state and local governments and, therefore, is responsible for developing a system of planning procedures for integrating the emergency preparedness actions of federal, state and local governments.

(g) Federal departments and agencies shall design their preparedness measures to permit a rapid and effective transition from routine to emergency operations, and to make effective use of the period following initial indication of a probable national security emergency. This will include:

(1) Development of a system of emergency actions that defines alternatives, processes, and issues to be considered during various stages of national security emergencies; and

(2) Identification of actions that could be taken at the Federal and local levels of government in the early stages of a national security emergency or pending national security emergency to mitigate the impact of or reduce significantly the leadtime associated with full emergency action implementation.
