
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 334 - GRADUATED MOBILIZATION RESPONSE
##### ยง 334.3 Background.

(a) The GMR system is designed to take into account the need to mobilize the Nation's resources in response to a wide range of crisis or emergency situations. GMR is a flexible decision making process of preparedness and response actions which are appropriate to warning indicators or an event. Thus, GMR allows the government, as a whole, to take small or large, often reversible, steps to increase its national security emergency preparedness posture.

(b) Crises, especially those resulting in major military activities, always have some political or economic context. As the risks of military action increase, nations undertake more extensive preparations over a longer period of time to increase their military power. Such preparations by potential adversaries shape the nature and gravity of the threat as well as its likelihood and timing of occurrence. These measures permit the development of reliable indicators of threat at an early time in the evolution of a crisis. Depending on the nature of the situation or event and the nation involved, these early warning indicators may emanate from the political, socio-economic and/or industrial sectors.

(c) The GMR system enables the nation to approach mobilization planning and actions as part of the deterrent response capability and to use it to reduce the probability of conflict. Alternatively, if deterrence should fail, the GMR system would enable the nation to undertake a series of phased actions intended to increase its ability to meet defense and essential civilian requirements. The GMR system integrates the potential strength of the national economy into U.S. national security strategy.
