
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
##### ยง 9.11 Mitigation.
###### In the implementation of the National Flood Insurance Program.

(e)(1) The Federal Insurance Administration shall make identification of all coastal high hazard areas a priority;

(2) Beginning October 1, 1981, the Federal Insurance Administration of FEMA may only provide flood insurance for new construction or substantial improvements in a coastal high hazard area if:

(i) Wave heights have been designated for the site of the structure either by the Administrator of FEMA based upon data generated by FEMA or by another source, satisfactory to the Administrator; and

(ii) The structure is rated by FEMA-FIA based on a system which reflects the capacity to withstand the effects of the 100-year frequency flood including, but not limited to, the following factors:

(A) Wave heights;

(B) The ability of the structure to withstand the force of waves.

(3)(i) FEMA shall accept and take fully into account information submitted by a property owner indicating that the rate for a particular structure is too high based on the ability of the structure to withstand the force of waves. In order to obtain a rate adjustment, a property owner must submit to FEMA specific information regarding the structure and its immediate environment. Such information must be certified by a registered professional architect or engineer who has demonstrable experience and competence in the fields of foundation, soils, and structural engineering. Such information should include:

(A) Elevation of the structure (bottom of lowest floor beam) in relation to the Base Flood Elevation including wave height;

(B) Distance of the structure from the shoreline;

(C) Dune protection and other environmental factors;

(D) Description of the building support system; and

(E) Other relevant building details.

(ii) FIA shall notify communities with coastal high hazard areas and federally related lenders in such communities, of the provisions of this paragraph. Notice to the lenders may be accomplished by the Federal instrumentalities to which the lenders are related.

(4) In any case in which the Regional Director has been, pursuant to ยง 9.11(d)(1), precluded from providing assistance for a new or substantially improved structure in a floodway, FIA may not provide a new or renewed policy of flood insurance for that structure.
