
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 350 - REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF STATE AND LOCAL RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PLANS AND PREPAREDNESS
##### § 350.8 Initial FEMA action on State plan.

(a) The Regional Administrator shall acknowledge in writing within ten days the receipt of the State application.

(b) FEMA shall publish a notice signed by the Regional Administrator or designee in thewithin 30 days after receipt of the application, that an application from a State has been received and that copies are available at the Regional Office for review and copying in accordance with 44 CFR 5.26.

(c) The Regional Administrator shall furnish copies of the plan to members of the RAC for their analysis and evaluation.

(d) The Regional Administrator shall make a detailed review of the State plan, including those of local governments, and assess the capability of State and local governments to effectively implement the plan (e.g., adequacy and maintenance of procedures, training, resources, staffing levels and qualification and equipment adequacy). Evaluation and comments of the RAC members will be used as part of the review process.

(e) In connection with the review, the Regional Administrator may make suggestions to States concerning perceived gaps or deficiencies in the plans, and the State may amend the plan at any time prior to forwarding to the Deputy Administrator for the National Preparedness Directorate.

(f) Two conditions for FEMA approval of State plans (including local government plans) are the requirements for an exercise (see § 350.9), and for public participation (see §§ 350.9 and 350.10.). These activities occur during the Regional review and prior to the forwarding of the plan to the Deputy Administrator for the National Preparedness Directorate.
