
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 351 - RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS
##### Subpart C - Interagency Assignments
###### ยง 351.20 The Federal Emergency Management Agency.

(a) Establish policy and provide leadership via the FRPCC in the coordination of all Federal assistance and guidance to State and local governments for developing, reviewing, assessing and testing the State and local radiological emergency plans.

(b) Issue guidance in cooperation with other Federal agencies concerning their responsibilities for providing radiological emergency planning and preparedness assistance to State and local governments.

(c) Foster cooperation of industry, technical societies, Federal agencies and other constituencies in the radiological emergency planning and preparedness of State and local governments.

(d) Develop and promulgate preparedness criteria and guidance to State and local governments, in coordination with other Federal agencies, for the preparation, review and testing of State and local radiological emergency plans.

(e) Provide assistance to State and local governments in the preparation, review and testing of radiological emergency plans.

(f) Assess, with the assistance of other Federal agencies, the adequacy of State and local government emergency plans and the capability of the State and local government officials to implement them (e.g., adequacy and maintenance of equipment, procedures, training, resources, staffing levels and qualifications) and report the findings and determinations to NRC.

(g) Review and approve State radiological emergency plans and preparedness in accordance with FEMA procedures in 44 CFR part 350.

(h) Develop, implement and maintain a program of public education and information to support State and local radiological emergency plans and preparedness.

(i) Develop and manage a radiological emergency response training program to meet State and local needs, using technical expertise and resources of other involved agencies. Develop and field test exercise materials and coordinate the Federal assistance required by States and localities in conducting exercises, including guidance for Federal observers.

(j) Develop, with NRC and other Federal Agencies, representative scenarios from which NRC licensed facility operators and State and local governments may select for use in testing and exercising radiological emergency plans.

(k) Issue guidance for establishment of State and local emergency instrumentation systems for radiation detection and measurement.

(l) Provide guidance and assistance, in coordination with NRC and HHS, to State and local governments concerning the storage and distribution of radioprotective substances and prophylactic use of drugs (e.g., potassium iodide) to reduce the radiation dose to specific organs as a result of radiological emergencies.
