
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 351 - RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS
##### Subpart C - Interagency Assignments
###### ยง 351.21 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

(a) Assess NRC nuclear facility (e.g., commercial power plants, fuel processing centers and research reactors) licensee emergency plans for adequacy to protect the health and safety of the public.

(b) Verify that nuclear facility licensee emergency plans can be adequately implemented (e.g., adequacy and maintenance of equipment, procedures, training, resources, staffing levels and qualifications).

(c) Review FEMA's findings and determinations of State and local radiological emergency plans for areas surrounding NRC licensed nuclear facilities.

(d) Take into account the overall state of emergency preparedness in making decisions to issue operating licenses or shut down licensed operating reactors, including the integration of assessments of emergency preparedness onsite by the NRC and offsite by FEMA.

(e) Where not already established, determine, in cooperation with other Federal agencies, the appropriate planning bases for NRC licensed nuclear facilities including distances, times and radiological characteristics.

(f) Assist FEMA in developing and promulgating guidance to State and local governments for the preparation of radiological emergency plans.

(g) Participate with FEMA in assisting State and local governments in developing their radiological emergency plans, evaluating exercises to test plans and evaluating the plans and preparedness.

(h) Assist FEMA and DOT in the preparation and promulgation of guidance to State and local governments for their use in developing the transportation portions of radiological emergency plans.

(i) Provide representation to and support for the FRPCC and the RACs.

(j) Assist FEMA in the development, implementation and maintenance of public information and education programs.

(k) Assist FEMA with other Federal agencies in the development of representative scenarios from which nuclear facility operators and State and local governments may select for use in testing and exercising radiological emergency plans.

(l) Assist FEMA in the development of guidance for State and local governments on emergency instrumentation systems for radiation detection and measurement.

(m) Assist FEMA with the development, implementation and presentation to the extent that resources permit of training programs for Federal, State and local radiological emergency preparedness personnel.

(n) Assist FEMA in providing guidance and assistance to State and local governments concerning the storage and distribution of radioprotective substances and prophylactic use of drugs (e.g., potassium iodide) to reduce the radiation dose to specific organs as a result of radiological emergencies.
