
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 351 - RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS
##### Subpart C - Interagency Assignments
###### ยง 351.23 The Department of Health and Human Services.

(a) Develop and specify protective actions and associated guidance to State and local governments for human food and animal feed (in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency).

(b) Provide guidance and assistance to State and local governments in preparing programs related to mental health, behavioral disturbances and epidemiology associated with radiological emergencies.

(c) Assist FEMA in the development, implementation and maintenance of public information and education programs to support State and local government radiological emergency plans and preparedness.

(d) Assist FEMA with the development, implementation and presentation to the extent that resources permit of a radiological emergency training program to support State and local government personnel in accident assessment, protective actions and decisionmaking.

(e) Develop and assist in providing the requisite training programs for State and local health, mental health and social service agencies.

(f) Provide guidance to State and local governments on the use of radio-protective substances and prophylactic use of drugs (e.g., potassium iodide) to reduce the radiation dose to specific organs including dosage and projected radiation exposures at which such drugs should be used.

(g) Assist FEMA in developing and promulgating guidance to State and local governments for the preparation of radiological emergency plans.

(h) Participate with FEMA in assisting State and local governments in developing their radiological emergency plans, evaluating exercises to test plans and evaluating the plans and preparedness.

(i) Provide representation to and support for the FRPCC and the RACs.

(j) Assist FEMA in developing representative scenarios from which nuclear facility operators and State and local governments may select for use in testing and exercising radiological emergency plans.

(k) Assist FEMA in the development of guidance for State and local governments on emergency instrumentation systems for radiation detection and measurement.

(l) Assist, in cooperation with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the State and local governments in the planning for the safe production, during radiological emergencies, of human food and animal feed in the emergency planning zones around fixed nuclear facilities.

(m) Assist FEMA, through the Interagency Radiation Research Committee, chaired by the Department of Health and Human Services, in the coordination of Federal research efforts, primarily in areas related to the bioeffects of radiation, applicable to State and local plans and preparedness.
