
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
##### § 9.13 Particular types of temporary housing.

(a) The purpose of this section is to set forth the procedures whereby the Agency will provide certain specified types of temporary housing.

(b) Prior to providing the types of temporary housing enumerated in paragraph (c) of this section, the Agency shall comply with the provisions of this section. For all temporary housing not enumerated below, the full 8-step process (see § 9.6) applies.

(c) The following temporary housing actions are subject to the provisions of this section and not the full 8-step process:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Placing a mobile home or readily fabricated dwelling on a private or commercial site, but not a group site.

(d) The actions set out in paragraph (c) of this section are subject to the following decision-making process:

(1) The temporary housing action shall be evaluated in accordance with the provisions of § 9.7 to determine if it is in or affects a floodplain or wetland.

(2) No mobile home or readily fabricated dwelling may be placed on a private or commercial site in a floodway or coastal high hazard area.

(3) An individual or family shall not be housed in a floodplain or wetland unless the Regional Administrator has complied with the provisions of § 9.9 to determine that such site is the only practicable alternative. The following factors shall be substituted for the factors in § 9.9 (c) and (e) (2) through (4):

(i) Speedy provision of temporary housing;

(ii) Potential flood risk to the temporary housing occupant;

(iii) Cost effectiveness;

(iv) Social and neighborhood patterns;

(v) Timely availability of other housing resources; and

(vi) Potential harm to the floodplain or wetland.

(4) An individual or family shall not be housed in a floodplain or wetland (except in existing resources) unless the Regional Administrator has complied with the provisions of § 9.11 to minimize harm to and within floodplains and wetlands. The following provisions shall be substituted for the provisions of § 9.11(d) for mobile homes:

(i) No mobile home or readily fabricated dwelling may be placed on a private or commercial site unless it is elevated to the fullest extent practicable up to the base flood level and adequately anchored.
