
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 351 - RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS
##### Subpart C - Interagency Assignments
###### ยง 351.24 The Department of Energy.

(a) Determine the appropriate planning bases for the Department of Energy (DOE) owned and contractor operated nuclear facilities (e.g., research and weapon production facilities) including distances, time and radiological characteristics.

(b) Assess DOE nuclear facility emergency plans for adequacy in contributing to the health and safety of the public.

(c) Verify that DOE nuclear facility emergency plans can be adequately implemented (e.g., adequacy and maintenance of equipment, procedures, training, resources, staffing levels and qualifications).

(d) Assist State and local governments, within the constraints of national security and in coordination with FEMA, in the preparation of those portions of their radiological emergency plans related to DOE owned and contractor operated nuclear facilities and radioactive materials in transit.

(e) Review and assess FEMA's findings and determinations on the adequacy of and capability to implement State and local radiological emergency plans for areas surrounding DOE nuclear facilities. Make independent assessments of the overall State of plans and preparedness.

(f) Serve as the lead agency for coordinating the development and issuance of interagency instructions and guidance to implement the Federal Radiological Monitoring and Assessment Plan (FRMAP), which will replace the Interagency Radiological Assistance Plan. The FRMAP provides the framework through which participating Federal agencies will coordinate their emergency radiological monitoring and assessment activities with those of State and local governments.

(g) Develop, maintain and improve capability to detect and assess hazardous levels of radiation.

(h) Assist FEMA in developing and promulgating guidance to State and local governments for the preparation of radiological emergency plans.

(i) Assist FEMA with the development, implementation and presentation to the extent that resources permit of training programs for Federal, State and local radiological emergency response personnel.

(j) Participate with FEMA in assisting State and local governments in developing their radiological emergency plans, evaluating exercises to test plans and evaluating the plans and preparedness.

(k) Develop, with FEMA, representative scenarios from which DOE facility operators and State and local governments may select for use in testing and exercising radiological emergency plans.

(l) Provide representation to and support for the FRPCC and the RACs.

(m) Assist FEMA in the development of guidance for State and local governments on emergency instrumentation systems for radiation detection and measurement.
