
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 352 - COMMERCIAL NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLANNING
##### Subpart A - Certifications and Determinations
###### ยง 352.5 FEMA action on licensee certification.

(a) Upon receiving a licensee certification, the host Regional Administrator shall immediately notify FEMA Headquarters of the licensee certification. Within 5 days the host Regional Administrator shall notify the Governor of an affected State and the chief executive officer of any local government that a certification has been received, and make a copy of the certification available to such persons. Within 10 days, the host Regional Administrator shall acknowledge in writing the receipt of the certification to the licensee.

(b) Within 15 days of receipt of the certification, the Regional Administrator shall publish a notice in thethat a certification from the licensee has been received, and that copies are available at the Regional Office for review and copying in accordance with 44 CFR 5.26.

(c) FEMA Headquarters shall notify the NRC of receipt of the certification and shall request advice from the NRC on whether a decline or fail situation exists.

(d) State and local governments may submit written statements to the host Regional Administrator outlining their position as to the facts stated in the letter of certification. Such statements shall be submitted to FEMA within 10 days of the date of notification provided to State and local government under ยง 352.5(a). Any such statements shall be a part of the record and will be considered in arriving at recommendations or determinations made under the provisions of this part.

(e) The host FEMA Regional Office shall provide, after consulting with State and responsible local officials, a recommended determination on whether a decline or fail situation exists to the FEMA Deputy Administrator for the National Preparedness Directorate within 30 days of receipt of the licensee certification.

(f) The FEMA Deputy Administrator for the National Preparedness Directorate shall make a determination on whether a decline or fail situation exists within 45 days of receipt of the licensee certification and shall advise the licensee, NRC, and State and local officials.

(g) The times for actions set out above may be extended up to an aggregate of 30 days by the host Regional Administrator or Deputy Administrator for the National Preparedness Directorate, as appropriate.
