
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
##### ยง 9.13 Particular types of temporary housing.
###### et seq.)

(ii) No mobile home or readily fabricated dwelling may be placed if such placement is inconsistent with the criteria of the National Flood Insurance Program (44 CFR part 59or any more restrictive Federal, State or local floodplain management standard. Such standards may require elevation to the base flood level in the absence of a variance.

(iii) Mobile homes shall be elevated on open works (walls, columns, piers, piles, etc.) rather than on fill where practicable.

(iv) To minimize the effect of floods on human health, safety and welfare, the Agency shall:

(A) Where appropriate, integrate all of its proposed actions in placing mobile homes for temporary housing in floodplains into existing flood warning and preparedness plans and ensure that available flood warning time is reflected;

(B) Provide adequate access and egress to and from the proposed site of the mobile home; and

(C) Give special consideration to the unique hazard potential in flash flood and rapid-rise areas.

(5) FEMA shall comply with Step 2 Early Public Notice (ยง 9.8(c)) and Step 7 Final Public Notice (ยง 9.12). In providing these notices, the emergency nature of temporary housing shall be taken into account.

(e) FEMA shall not sell or otherwise dispose of mobile homes or other readily fabricated dwellings which would be located in floodways or coastal high hazard areas. FEMA shall not sell or otherwise dispose of mobile homes or other readily fabricated dwellings which would be located in floodplains or wetlands unless there is full compliance with the 8-step process. Given the vulnerability of mobile homes to flooding, a rejection of a non-floodplain location alternative and of the no-action alternative shall be based on (1) a compelling need of the family or individual to buy a mobile home for permanent housing, and (2) a compelling requirement to locate the unit in a floodplain. Further, FEMA shall not sell or otherwise dispose of mobile homes or other readily fabricated dwellings in a floodplain unless they are elevated at least to the level of the 100-year flood. The Regional Administrator shall notify the Assistant Administrator for Mitigation of each instance where a floodplain location has been found to be the only practicable alternative for a mobile home sale.
