
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 352 - COMMERCIAL NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLANNING
##### Subpart B - Federal Participation
###### ยง 352.23 Functions of a Regional Assistance Committee (RAC).

(a) Under 44 CFR part 351, the role of a RAC is to assist State and local government officials to develop their radiological emergency plans, to review the plans, and to observe exercises to evaluate the plans. Under subparts A and B of this part, these technical assistance activities are extended to the licensee.

(b) Prior to a determination under subpart A (44 CFR 352.6(d)) that Federal facilities and resources are needed, the designated RAC for the specific site will assist the licensee, as necessary, in evaluating the need for Federal facilities and resources, in addition to providing technical assistance under ยง 352.23(a).

(c) In accomplishing the foregoing, the RAC will use the standards and evaluation criteria in NUREG-0654/FEMA-REP-1, Rev. 1 and Supp. 1.or approved alternative approaches, and RAC members shall render such technical assistance as appropriate to their agency mission and expertise.

(d) Following determination under subpart A (44 CFR 352.6(d)) that Federal facilities and resources are needed, the RAC will assist FEMA in identifying agencies and specifying the Federal facilities and resources which the agencies are to provide.
