
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 352 - COMMERCIAL NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLANNING
##### Subpart B - Federal Participation
###### ยง 352.24 Provision of technical assistance and Federal facilities and resources.

(a) Under a determination under subpart A (44 CFR 352.5(f) and 352.4(e)) that a decline or fail situation exists, FEMA and other Federal agencies will provide technical assistance to the licensee. Such assistance may be provided during the pendency of an appeal under ยง 352.29.

(b) The applicable criteria for the use of Federal facilities and resources are set forth in subpart A (44 CFR 352.6(c)(1)(2)). Upon a determination under subpart A (44 CFR 352.6(d)) that Federal resources or facilities will be required, FEMA will consult with the FRPCC, the RAC, the individual Federal agencies, and the licensee, to determine the extent of Federal facilities and resources that the government could provide, and the most effective way to do so. After such consultation, FEMA will specifically request Federal agencies to provide those Federal facilities and resources. The Federal agencies, in turn, will respond to confirm the availability of such facilities and resources and provide estimates of their costs.

(c) FEMA will inform the licensee in writing of the Federal support which will be provided. This information will identify Federal agencies which are to be included in the plan, the extent and purpose of technical assistance to be provided and the Federal facilities and resources to be committed, and the limitations of their use. The information will also describe the requirements for reimbursement to the Federal Government for this support.

(d) FEMA will coordinate the Federal effort in implementing the determinations made under subpart A (44 CFR 352.5(f) and 352.6(d)) so that each Federal agency maintains the committed technical assistance, facilities, and resources after the licensee offsite emergency response plan is completed. FEMA and other Federal agencies will participate in training, exercises, and drills, in support of the licensee offsite emergency response plan.

(e) In carrying out paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, FEMA will keep affected State and local governments informed of actions taken.
