
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 353 - FEE FOR SERVICES IN SUPPORT, REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT OR LICENSEE RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PLANS AND PREPAREDNESS
##### ยง 353.6 Schedule of services.

Recipients shall be charged the full cost of site-specific services based upon the appropriate professional hourly staff rate for the FEMA services described in this Section and for related contractual services which will be charged to the licensee by FEMA, at the rate and cost incurred.

(a) When a State seeks formal review and approval by FEMA of the State's radiological emergency response plan pursuant to 44 CFR part 350 (Review and Approval Process of State and Local Radiological Emergency Plans and Preparedness), FEMA shall provide the services as described in 44 CFR part 350 in regard to that request and fees will be charged for such services to the licensee, which is the ultimate beneficiary of FEMA services. This provision does not apply where an operating license has been granted or the application denied or withdrawn, except as necessary to support biennial exercises and related activities. Fees will be charged for all FEMA, but not other Federal agency activities related to such services, including but not limited to the following:

(1) Development of exercise objectives and scenarios, preexercise logistics, exercise conduct and participation, evaluation, meetings and reports.

(2) Review of plan revisions that are exercise-inadequacy related;

(3) Technical assistance that is exercise-inadequacy related;

(4) Remedial exercise, medical drill, or any other exercise or drill upon which maintenance of a license is predicated, with regard to preparation, review, conduct, participation, evaluation, meetings and reports.

(b) Interim findings. Where the NRC seeks from FEMA under the FEMA/NRC MOU an interim finding of the status of radiological emergency planning and preparedness at a particular time for a nuclear power plant, FEMA shall assess a fee to the licensee for providing this service. The provision of this service consists of making a determination whether the plans are adequate to protect the health and safety of the public living in the vicinity of the nuclear power facility by providing reasonable assurance that appropriate protective measures can be taken offsite in the event of a radiological emergency and that such plans are capable of being implemented.

(c) NRC utility plan submissions. Fees will be charged for all FEMA but not other Federal agency activities related to such services, including but not limited to the following:

(1) Development of exercise objectives and scenarios, preexercise logistics, exercise conduct and participation, evaluation and post-exercise meetings and reports.

(2) Notice and conduct of public meeting.

(3) Regional finding and determination of adequacy of plans and preparedness followed by review by FEMA Headquarters resulting in final FEMA determination of adequacy of plans and preparedness,

(4) Remedial exercise, medical drill, or any other exercise or drill upon which maintenance of a license is predicated, with regard to preparation, review, conduct, participation, evaluation, meetings and reports.

(d) Utility certification submission review. When a licensee seeks Federal assistance within the framework of 44 CFR part 352 due to the decline or failure of a State or local government to adequately prepare an emergency plan, FEMA shall process the licensee's certification and make the determination whether a decline or fail situation exists. Fees will be charged for services rendered in making the determination. Upon the determination that a decline or fail situation does exist, any services provided or secured by FEMA consisting of assistance to the licensee, as described in 44 CFR part 352, will have a fee charged for such services.

(e) FEMA participation in site-specific NRC adjudicatory proceedings and any other site-specific legal costs. Where FEMA participates in NRC licensing proceedings and any related court actions to support FEMA findings as a result of its review and approval of offsite emergency plans and preparedness, or provides legal support for any other site specific FEMA activities comprised in this rule, fees will be charged to the licensee for such participation.

(f) Rendering technical assistance. Where FEMA is requested by a licensee to provide any technical assistance, or where a State or local government requests technical assistance in order to correct an inadequacy identified as a result of a biennial exercise or any other drill or exercise upon which maintenance of a license is predicated, FEMA will charge such assistance to the licensee for the provision of such service.
