
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 354 - FEE FOR SERVICES TO SUPPORT FEMA'S OFFSITE RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PROGRAM
##### ยง 354.1 Purpose.

This part establishes the methodology for FEMA to assess and collect user fees from Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) licensees of commercial nuclear power plants to recover at least 100 percent of the amounts that we anticipate to obligate for our Radiological Emergency Preparedness (REP) Program as authorized under Title III, Public Law 105-276, 112 Stat. 2461, 2502. Public Law 105-276 established in the Treasury a Radiological Emergency Preparedness Fund, to be available under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011 et. seq.), and under Executive Order 12657 (3 CFR, 1988 Comp., p. 611), for offsite radiological emergency planning, preparedness, and response. Beginning in fiscal year 1999 and thereafter, the Administrator of FEMA must publish fees to be assessed and collected, applicable to persons subject to FEMA's radiological emergency preparedness regulations. The methodology for assessment and collection of fees must be fair and equitable and must reflect the full amount of costs of providing radiological emergency planning, preparedness, response and associated services. Our assessment of fees include our costs for use of agency resources for classes of regulated persons and our administrative costs to collect the fees. Licensees deposit fees by electronic transfer into the Radiological Emergency Preparedness Fund in the U.S. Treasury as offsetting collections.
