
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 354 - FEE FOR SERVICES TO SUPPORT FEMA'S OFFSITE RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PROGRAM
##### ยง 354.4 Assessment of fees.
###### Determination of site-specific, biennial exercise-related component for our personnel.

(b)We will determine an average biennial exercise-related cost for our personnel for each commercial nuclear power plant site in the REP Program. We base this annualized cost (dividing the average biennial exercise-related cost by two) on the average number of hours spent by our personnel in REP exercise-related activities for each site. We will determine the average number of hours using an analysis of site-specific exercise activity spent since the beginning of our user fee program (1991). We determine the actual user fee assessment for this component by multiplying the average number of REP exercise-related hours that we determine and annualize for each site by the average hourly rate in effect for the fiscal year for a REP Program employee. We will revise the hourly rate annually to reflect actual budget and cost of living factors, but the number of annualized, site-specific exercise hours will remain constant for user fee calculations and assessments throughout the six-year cycle. We will continue to track and monitor exercise activity during the six-year cycle, FY 1999-2004. We will make appropriate adjustments to this component to calculate user fee assessments for later six-year cycles.
