
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 354 - FEE FOR SERVICES TO SUPPORT FEMA'S OFFSITE RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PROGRAM
##### ยง 354.5 Description of site-specific, plume pathway EPZ biennial exercise-related component services and other services.
###### Flat fee component services.

(b)(1) Evaluate State and local offsite radiological emergency plans and preparedness.

(2) Schedule other than plume pathway EPZ biennial exercises.

(3) Develop other than plume pathway EPZ biennial exercise objectives and scenarios.

(4) Pre-exercise logistics for other than the plume pathway EPZ.

(5) Conduct other than plume pathway EPZ biennial exercises and evaluations.

(6) Prepare, review and finalize other than plume pathway EPZ biennial exercise reports, notice and conduct of public meetings.

(7) Prepare findings and determinations on the adequacy or approval of plans and preparedness.

(8) Conduct the formal 44 CFR part 350 review process.

(9) Provide technical assistance to States and local governments.

(10) Review licensee submissions pursuant to 44 CFR part 352.

(11) Review NRC licensee offsite plan submissions under the NRC/FEMA Memorandum of Understanding on Planning and Preparedness, and NUREG-0654/FEMA-REP-1, Revision 1, Supplement 1. You may obtain copies of the NUREG-0654 from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office.

(12) Participate in NRC adjudication proceedings and any other site-specific legal forums.

(13) Alert and notification system reviews.

(14) Responses to petitions filed under 10 CFR 2.206.

(15) Congressionally-initiated reviews and evaluations.

(16) Responses to licensee's challenges to FEMA's administration of the fee program.

(17) Respond to actual radiological emergencies.

(18) Develop regulations, guidance, planning standards and policy.

(19) Coordinate with other Federal agencies to enhance the preparedness of State and local governments for radiological emergencies.

(20) Coordinate REP Program issues with constituent organizations such as the National Emergency Management Association, Conference of Radiation Control Program Directors, and the Nuclear Energy Institute.

(21) Implement and coordinate REP Program training with FEMA's Emergency Management Institute (EMI) to assure effective development and implementation of REP training courses and conferences.

(22) Participation of REP personnel as lecturers or to perform other functions at EMI, conferences and workshops.

(23) Any other costs that we incur resulting from our REP Program Strategic Review implementation and oversight working group activities.

(24) Costs associated with a transition phase should we decide to advertise and award a contract for technical support to the REP Program. Transition phase activities may include training new contractor personnel in the REP Exercise Evaluation and Planning courses, and on-the-job training for new evaluators at a select number of REP exercises.

(25) Services associated with the assessment of fees, billing, and administration of this part.

(26) Disaster-initiated reviews and evaluations.
