
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 360 - STATE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS FOR TRAINING AND EDUCATION IN COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
##### ยง 360.2 Description of program.

(a) The program is designed for all States regardless of their present level of involvement in training or their degree of expertise in originating and presenting training courses in the past. The needs of individual States, difference in numbers to be trained, and levels of sophistication in any previous training program have been recognized. It is thus believed that all States are best able to meet their own unique situations and those of local government by being given this opportunity and flexibility.

(b) Each State is asked to submit an acceptable application, to be accompanied by a Training and Education (T&E) plan for a total of three years, only the first year of which will be required to be detailed. The remaining two year program should be presented in terms of ongoing training objectives and programs. In the first year plan applicants shall delineate their objectives in training and education, including a description of the programs to be offered, and identify the audiences and numbers to be trained. Additionally, the State is asked to note the month in which the activity is to be presented, the location, and cost estimates including instructional costs and participant's travel and per diem. These specifics of date, place, and costs will be required for the first year of any three year plan. A three year plan will be submitted each year with an application. Each negotiated agreement will include a section of required training (Radiological Defense), and a section including optional courses to be conducted in response to State and local needs.

(c) FEMA support to the States in their training program for State and local officials, has been designed around three Program elements. Each activity listed in the State Training and Education (T&E) Plan will be derived from the following three elements:
