
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 9 - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS
##### § 9.18 Responsibilities.
###### Regional Administrators' responsibilities.

(a)Regional Administrators shall, for all actions falling within their respective jurisdictions:

(1) Implement the requirements of the Orders and this regulation. Anywhere in §§ 9.2, 9.6 through 9.13, and 9.15 where a direction is given to the Agency, it is the responsibility of the Regional Administrator.

(2) Consult with the Chief Counsel regarding any question of interpretation concerning this regulation or the Orders.

(b) The Heads of the Offices, Directorates and Administrations of FEMA shall:

(1) Implement the requirements of the Orders and this regulation. When a decision of a Regional Administrator relating to disaster assistance is appealed, the Assistant Administrator for Mitigation may make determinations under these regulations on behalf of the Agency.

(2) Prepare and submit to the Office of Chief Counsel reports to the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with section 2(b) of E.O. 11988 and section 3 of E.O. 11990. If a proposed action is to be located in a floodplain or wetland, any requests to the Office of Management and Budget for new authorizations or appropriations shall be accompanied by a report indicating whether the proposed action is in accord with the Orders and these regulations.
