
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 360 - STATE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS FOR TRAINING AND EDUCATION IN COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
##### ยง 360.2 Description of program.
###### Recipient conducted courses:

(3)This element requires the greatest degree of sophistication in program planning and delivery on the part of the State. Training events proposed by the State must be justified as addressing Emergency Management Training Program objectives. Additionally, they must address State or community needs and indicate the State's ability to present and carry out the Program of Instruction. Courses in this category could include:

(i) Radiological Monitoring,

(ii) Emergency Operations Simulating Training,

(iii) Shelter Management.

(d) In order that this three year comprehensive Training and Education Program planning can proceed in a timely and logical manner, each State will be provided three target appropriation figures, one for each of the three program years. States will develop their proposals, using the target figure to develop their scope of work. Adjustments in funding and the scope of work will be subject to negotiation before finalization. Both the funding and the scope of work will be reviewed each year and adjustments in the out years will reflect increased sophistication and expertise of the States as well as changing training needs within each State.

(e)(1) FEMA funding through the State Cooperative Agreement for the training activities is to be used for travel and per diem expenses of students selected by the States for courses reflecting individually needed or required training. Additionally funds may be expended for course materials and instructor expenses. The funding provided in the State Cooperative Agreement is not for the purpose of conducting ongoing State activities or for funding staff positions to accomplish work to be performed under this Agreement. Nor is the Agreement for the purpose of purchasing equipment which may be obtained with the help of Personnel and Administrative funds. In cases where equipment has been identified as needed in the scope of work submitted with the application, and where it serves as an outreach to a new audience or methodology, equipment purchase may be approved at the time of initial application approval.

(2) Allowable cost will be funded at 100%.
