
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 361 - NATIONAL EARTHQUAKE HAZARDS REDUCTION ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
##### Subpart A - Earthquake Hazards Reduction Assistance Program
###### ยง 361.4 Matching contributions.

(a) All State assistance will be cost shared after the first year of funding. States which received a grant before October 1, 1990, which included the 50 percent non-Federal contribution to the State program, will continue to match the Federal funds on a 50 percent cash match basis.

(b) States which did not receive a grant before October 1, 1990, will assume cost sharing on a phased-in basis over a period of four years with the full cost sharing requirements being implemented in the fourth year. The sequence is as follows:

(1) For the first fiscal year, cost sharing will be voluntary. FEMA will provide State assistance without requiring a State match. Those States that are able to cost-share are encouraged to do so (on either a cash or in-kind basis).

(2) For the second fiscal year, the minimum acceptable non-Federal contribution is 25 percent of the total project cost, which may be satisfied through an in-kind contribution. Those States that are able to cost-share on a cash-contribution basis are encouraged to do so.

(3) For the third fiscal year, the minimum acceptable non-Federal contribution is 35 percent of the total project cost, which may be satisfied through an in-kind contribution. Those States that are able to cost-share on a cash-contribution basis are encouraged to do so.

(4) For the fourth and subsequent fiscal years, full cost sharing will be implemented, requiring a minimum of a 50 percent non-Federal contribution to a State program, with this share required to be cash. In-kind matching will no longer be acceptable. Thus, every dollar FEMA provides to a State must be matched by one dollar from the State. States that can contribute an amount greater than that required by the match are permitted and encouraged to do so. However, State assistance will not exceed the established target allocation.

(c) The State contribution need not be applied at the exact time of the obligation of the Federal funds. However, the State full matching share must be obligated by the end of the project period for which the State assistance has been made available for obligation under an approved program or budget.

(d) In the event a State interrupts its participation in this program, if it later elects to participate again, the nature and amount of that State's cost sharing shall be determined by the regulations then in effect, taking into account the number of years in which the State previously participated.
