
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 361 - NATIONAL EARTHQUAKE HAZARDS REDUCTION ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
##### Subpart A - Earthquake Hazards Reduction Assistance Program
###### ยง 361.7 General eligible expenditures.

(a) Expenditures must be for activities described in the statement of work mutually agreed to by FEMA and the State during the annual negotiation process, or for activities that the State agrees to perform as a result of subsequent modifications to that statement of work. These activities shall be consistent with the definition of eligible activities in ยง 361.2.

(b) The following is a list of eligible expenditures. When items do not appear on the list they will be considered on a case-by-case basis for policy determinations, based on criteria set forth in ยง 361.5. All costs must be reasonable, and consistent with OMB Circular A-87.

(1) Direct and indirect salaries or wages (including overtime) of employees hired specifically for carrying out earthquake hazards reduction activities are eligible when engaged in the performance of eligible work.

(2) Reasonable costs for work performed by private contractors on eligible projects contracted for by the State.

(3) Travel costs and per diem costs of State employees not to exceed the actual subsistence expense basis for the permanent or temporary activity, as determined by the State's cost principles governing travel.

(4) Non-expendable personal property, office supplies, and supplies for workshops; exhibits.

(5) A maximum of $8,000 or 10 percent of the total project allocation, whichever is less, may be expended for personal computer equipment in the first year of program funding. A full-time earthquake staff person must be employed and the equipment must be dedicated entirely to the earthquake project.

(6) Meetings and conferences, when the primary purpose is dissemination of information relating to the earthquake hazards reduction project.

(7) Training which directly benefits the conduct of earthquake hazards reduction activities.
