
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Preparedness
#### PART 362 - CRITERIA FOR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, BEQUESTS, OR SERVICES
##### ยง 362.3 Criteria for determining acceptance.

The following criteria shall be applied whenever a gift of property or gift of services is offered to the Administrator for the benefit of the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program.

(a) The gift of property or gift of services must clearly and directly further the objectives of the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 7702.

(b) All gifts of property must be offered unconditionally, with sole discretion of use, administration and disposition of such property to be determined by the Administrator or his designee.

(c) The Administrator may accept and use gifts of services of voluntary and uncompensated personnel, and may provide transportation and subsistence as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5703 for persons serving without compensation.

(d) Employees of FEMA or the Program agencies may not solicit gifts of property, or gifts of services.

(e) Acceptance of gifts of property, or gifts of services must first be approved by the Office of the Chief Counsel, FEMA, for conformance with all applicable laws and regulations.

(f) In all cases where it is determined that the acceptance of a gift may create a conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict of interest, the gift will be declined.
