
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 11 - CLAIMS
##### Subpart D - Personnel Claims Regulations
###### ยง 11.70 Scope and purpose.

(a) The Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), is authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3721 to settle and pay (including replacement in kind) claims of officers and employees of FEMA, amounting to not more than $25,000 for damage to or loss of personal property incident to their service. Property may be replaced in-kind at the option of the Government. Claims are payable only for such types, quantities, or amounts of tangible personal property (including money) as the approving authority shall determine to be reasonable, useful, or proper under the circumstances existing at the time and place of the loss. In determining what is reasonable, useful, or proper, the approving authority will consider the type and quantity of property involved, circumstances attending acquisition and use of the property, and whether possession or use by the claimant at the time of damage or loss was incident to service.

(b) The Government does not underwrite all personal property losses that a claimant may sustain and it does not underwrite individual tastes. While the Government does not attempt to limit possession of property by an individual, payment for damage or loss is made only to the extent that the possession of the property is determined to be reasonable, useful, or proper. If individuals possess excessive quantities of items, or expensive items, they should have such property privately insured. Failure of the claimant to comply with these procedures may reduce or preclude payment of the claim under this subpart.
