
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - CONDUCT AT THE MT. WEATHER EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE CENTER AND AT THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY TRAINING CENTER
##### ยง 15.9 Alcoholic beverages and narcotics.

At both Mt. Weather and the NETC we prohibit:

(a) Operating a motor vehicle by any person under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, hallucinogens, marijuana, barbiturates or amphetamines as defined in Title 21 of the Annotated Code of Maryland, Transportation, sec. 21-902 or in Title 18.2, ch. 7, Art. 2 of the Code of Virginia, secs. 18.2-266 and 18.2-266.1, as applicable;

(b) Entering upon or while on either property being under the influence of or using or possessing any narcotic drug, marijuana, hallucinogen, barbiturate or amphetamine. This prohibition does not apply in cases where a licensed physician has prescribed the drug for the person;

(c) Entering upon either property or being on either property under the influence of alcoholic beverages;

(d) Bringing alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, hallucinogens, marijuana, barbiturates or amphetamines onto the premises unless the Assistant Administrator, the Mt. Weather Executive Director, or the Administrator or designee for the NETC authorizes it in writing; and

(e) Use of alcoholic beverages on the property except:

(1) In the Balloon Shed Lounge at Mt. Weather and in other locations that the Administrator or the Mt. Weather Executive Director authorizes in writing; and

(2) In the NETC Recreation Association and other locations that the Assistant Administrator for the United States Fire Administration or the Administrator, or designee, authorizes in writing.
