
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - CONDUCT AT THE MT. WEATHER EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE CENTER AND AT THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY TRAINING CENTER
##### ยง 15.14 Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.

(a) Drivers of all vehicles entering or while at Mt. Weather or the NETC must drive carefully and safely at all times and must obey the signals and directions of the Police/Security Force or other authorized officials and all posted traffic signs;

(b) Drivers must comply with NETC parking requirements and vehicle registration requirements;

(c) At both Mt. Weather and the NETC we prohibit:

(1) Blocking entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants on the property; and

(2) Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or parking contrary to the direction of posted signs.

(3) Where warning signs are posted vehicles parked in violation may be removed at the owners' risk and expense.

(d) The Administrator, Mt. Weather Executive Director, or the Assistant Administrator for the United States Fire Administration or designee may issue and post specific supplemental traffic directives if needed. When issued and posted supplemental traffic directives will have the same force and effect as if they were in these rules. Proof that a parked motor vehicle violated these rules or directives may be taken as prima facie evidence that the registered owner was responsible for the violation.
