
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 59 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 59.2 Description of program.

(a) The National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 was enacted by title XIII of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (Pub. L. 90-448, August 1, 1968) to provide previously unavailable flood insurance protection to property owners in flood-prone areas. Mudslide (as defined in § 59.1) protection was added to the Program by the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-152, December 24, 1969). Flood-related erosion (as defined in § 59.1) protection was added to the Program by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234, December 31, 1973). The Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 requires the purchase of flood insurance on and after March 2, 1974, as a condition of receiving any form of Federal or federally-related financial assistance for acquisition or construction purposes with respect to insurable buildings and mobile homes within an identified special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), or flood-related erosion hazard area that is located within any community participating in the Program. The Act also requires that on and after July 1, 1975, or one year after a community has been formally notified by the Federal Insurance Administrator. of its identification as community containing one or more special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), or flood-related erosion hazard areas, no such Federal financial assistance, shall be provided within such an area unless the community in which the area is located is then participating in the Program, subject to certain exceptions. See FIA published Guidelines at § 59.4(c).

(b) To qualify for the sale of federally-subsidized flood insurance a community must adopt and submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator as part of its application, flood plain management regulations, satisfying at a minimum the criteria set forth at part 60 of this subchapter, designed to reduce or avoid future flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or flood-related erosion damages. These regulations must include effective enforcement provisions.

(c) Minimum requirements for adequate flood plain management regulations are set forth in § 60.3 for flood-prone areas, in § 60.4 for mudslide (i.e., mudflow) areas and in § 60.5 for flood-related erosion areas. Those applicable requirements and standards are based on the amount of technical information available to the community.
