
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 60 - CRITERIA FOR LAND MANAGEMENT AND USE
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Flood Plain Management Regulations
###### § 60.2 Minimum compliance with flood plain management criteria.

(a) A flood-prone community applying for flood insurance eligibility shall meet the standards of § 60.3(a) in order to become eligible if a FHBM has not been issued for the community at the time of application. Thereafter, the community will be given a period of six months from the date the Federal Insurance Administrator provides the data set forth in § 60.3 (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f), in which to meet the requirements of the applicable paragraph. If a community has received a FHBM, but has not yet applied for Program eligibility, the community shall apply for eligibility directly under the standards set forth in § 60.3(b). Thereafter, the community will be given a period of six months from the date the Federal Insurance Administrator provides the data set forth in § 60.3 (c), (d), (e) or (f) in which to meet the requirements of the applicable paragraph.

(b) A mudslide (i.e., mudflow)-prone community applying for flood insurance eligibility shall meet the standards of § 60.4(a) to become eligible. Thereafter, the community will be given a period of six months from the date the mudslide (i.e., mudflow) areas having special mudslide hazards are delineated in which to meet the requirements of § 60.4(b).

(c) A flood-related erosion-prone community applying for flood insurance eligibility shall meet the standards of § 60.5(a) to become eligible. Thereafter, the community will be given a period of six months from the date the flood-related erosion areas having special erosion hazards are delineated in which to meet the requirements of § 60.5(b).

(d) Communities identified in part 65 of this subchapter as containing more than one type of hazard (e.g., any combination of special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion hazard areas) shall adopt flood plain management regulations for each type of hazard consistent with the requirements of §§ 60.3, 60.4 and 60.5.

(e) Local flood plain management regulations may be submitted to the State Coordinating Agency designated pursuant to § 60.25 for its advice and concurrence. The submission to the State shall clearly describe proposed enforcement procedures.

(f) The community official responsible for submitting annual or biennial reports to the Federal Insurance Administrator pursuant to § 59.22(b)(2) of this subchapter shall also submit copies of each annual or biennial report to any State Coordinating Agency.

(g) A community shall assure that its comprehensive plan is consistent with the flood plain management objectives of this part.

(h) The community shall adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations based on data provided by the Federal Insurance Administrator. Without prior approval of the Federal Insurance Administrator, the community shall not adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations based upon modified data reflecting natural or man-made physical changes.
