
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### ยง 61.11 Effective date and time of coverage under the Standard Flood Insurance Policy - New Business Applications and Endorsements.
###### endorsement,application

(f) With respect to any submission of an application in connection with new business, the payment by an insured to an agent or the issuance of premium payment by the agent does not constitute payment to the NFIP. Therefore, it is important that an application for flood insurance, as well as the full amount due, be mailed to the NFIP promptly in order to have the effective date of the coverage based on the application date plus the waiting period. If the application and the full amount due are received at the office of the NFIP within ten (10) calendar days from the date of application, the waiting period will be calculated from the date of application. Also, as an alternative, in those cases where the application and premium payment are mailed by certified mail within four (4) calendar days from the date of application, the waiting period will be calculated from the date of application even though the application and full amount due are received at the office of the NFIP after ten (10) calendar days following the date of application. Thus, if the application and premium payment are received after ten (10) calendar days from the date of the application or are not mailed by certified mail within four (4) calendar days from the date of application, the waiting period will be calculated from the date of receipt at the office of the NFIP. To determine the effective date of any coverage added by endorsement to a flood insurance policy already in effect, substitute the termfor the termin this paragraph (f).

(g) The rules set forth in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section apply to Write Your Own (WYO) companies, except that agents must mail the premium payments and accompanying applications and endorsements to the WYO company and the WYO company must receive the applications and endorsements, rather than the NFIP.
