
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(1) to Part 61

Please read the policy carefully. The flood insurance provided is subject to limitations, restrictions, and exclusions.

A. This policy insures the following types of property only:

1. A one to four family residential building, not under a condominium form of ownership;

2. A single-family dwelling unit in a condominium building; and

3. Personal property in a building.

B. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) provides flood insurance under the terms of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and its amendments, and Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

C. We will pay you for direct physical loss by or from flood to your insured property if you:

1. Have paid the full amount due (including applicable premiums, surcharges, and fees);

2. Comply with all terms and conditions of this policy; and

3. Have furnished accurate information and statements.

D. We have the right to review the information you give us at any time and revise your policy based on our review.

E. This policy insures only one building. If you own more than one building, coverage will apply to the single building specifically described in the Flood Insurance Application.

F. Subject to the exception in I.G below, multiple policies with building coverage cannot be issued to insure a single building to one insured or to different insureds, even if separate policies were issued through different NFIP insurers. Payment for damages may only be made under a single policy for building damages under Coverage A-Building Property.

G. A Dwelling Form policy with building coverage may be issued to a unit owner in a condominium building that is also insured under a Residential Condominium Building Association Policy (RCBAP). However, no more than $250,000 may be paid in combined benefits for a single unit under the Dwelling Form policy and the RCBAP. We will only pay for damage once. Items of damage paid for under an RCBAP cannot also be claimed under the Dwelling Form policy.

A. In this policy, "you" and "your" refer to the named insured(s) shown on the Declarations Page of this policy and the spouse of the named insured, if a resident of the same household. Insured(s) also includes: Any mortgagee and loss payee named in the Application and Declarations Page, as well as any other mortgagee or loss payee determined to exist at the time of loss, in the order of precedence. "We," "us," and "our" refer to the insurer.

Some definitions are complex because they are provided as they appear in the law or regulations, or result from court cases.
