
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(1) to Part 61
###### see

a. If the structure is not yet walled or roofed as described in the definition for building (II.C.6.a) then coverage applies:

(1) Only while such work is in progress; or

(2) If such work is halted, only for a period of up to 90 continuous days thereafter.

b. However, coverage does not apply until the building is walled and roofed if the lowest floor, including the basement floor, of a non-elevated building or the lowest elevated floor of an elevated building is:

(1) Below the base flood elevation in Zones AH, AE, A1-A30, AR, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, AR/A, AR/AO; or

(2) Below the base flood elevation adjusted to include the effect of wave action in Zones VE or V1-V30.

The lowest floor level is based on the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the floor in Zones VE or V1-V30 or the top of the floor in Zones AH, AE, A1-A30, AR, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, AR/A, and AR/AO.

6. A manufactured home or a travel trailer, as described in the II.C.6. If the manufactured home or travel trailer is in a special flood hazard area, it must be anchored in the following manner at the time of the loss:

a. By over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors; or

b. In accordance with the manufacturer's specifications; or

c. In compliance with the community's floodplain management requirements unless it has been continuously insured by the NFIP at the same described location since September 30, 1982.

7. The following items of property which are insured under Coverage A only:

a. Awnings and canopies;

b. Blinds;

c. Built-in dishwashers;

d. Built-in microwave ovens;

e. Carpet permanently installed over unfinished flooring;

f. Central air conditioners;

g. Elevator equipment;

h. Fire sprinkler systems;

i. Walk-in freezers;

j. Furnaces and radiators;

k. Garbage disposal units;

l. Hot water heaters, including solar water heaters;

m. Light fixtures;

n. Outdoor antennas and aerials fastened to buildings;

o. Permanently installed cupboards, bookcases, cabinets, paneling, and wallpaper;

p. Plumbing fixtures;

q. Pumps and machinery for operating pumps;

r. Ranges, cooking stoves, and ovens;

s. Refrigerators; and

t. Wall mirrors, permanently installed.

8. Items of property below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated post-FIRM building located in Zones A1-A30, AE, AH, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, V1-V30, or VE, or in a basement regardless of the zone. Coverage is limited to the following:

a. Any of the following items, if installed in their functioning locations and, if necessary for operation, connected to a power source:

(1) Central air conditioners;

(2) Cisterns and the water in them;

(3) Drywall for walls and ceilings in a basement and the cost of labor to nail it, unfinished and unfloated and not taped, to the framing;

(4) Electrical junction and circuit breaker boxes;

(5) Electrical outlets and switches;

(6) Elevators, dumbwaiters and related equipment, except for related equipment installed below the base flood elevation after September 30, 1987;

(7) Fuel tanks and the fuel in them;

(8) Furnaces and hot water heaters;

(9) Heat pumps;

(10) Nonflammable insulation in a basement;

(11) Pumps and tanks used in solar energy systems;

(12) Stairways and staircases attached to the building, not separated from it by elevated walkways;

(13) Sump pumps;

(14) Water softeners and the chemicals in them, water filters, and faucets installed as an integral part of the plumbing system;

(15) Well water tanks and pumps;

(16) Required utility connections for any item in this list; and

(17) Footings, foundations, posts, pilings, piers, or other foundation walls and anchorage systems required to support a building.

b. Clean-up.

1. If you have purchased personal property coverage, we insure against direct physical loss by or from flood to personal property inside a building at the described location, if:

a. The property is owned by you or your household family members; and

b. At your option, the property is owned by guests or servants.

2. Personal property is also insured for a period of 45 days at another location as set forth in III.C.2.b, Property Removed to Safety.

3. Personal property in a building that is not fully enclosed must be secured to prevent flotation out of the building. If the personal property does float out during a flood, it will be conclusively presumed that it was not reasonably secured. In that case, there is no coverage for such property.

4. Coverage for personal property includes the following property, subject to B.1 above, which is insured under Coverage B only:

a. Air conditioning units, portable or window type;

b. Carpets, not permanently installed, over unfinished flooring;

c. Carpets over finished flooring;

d. Clothes washers and dryers;

e. "Cook-out" grills;

f. Food freezers, other than walk-in, and food in any freezer; and

g. Portable microwave ovens and portable dishwashers.

5. Coverage for items of property below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated post-FIRM building located in Zones A1-A30, AE, AH, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, V1-V30, or VE, or in a basement regardless of the zone, is limited to the following items, if installed in their functioning locations and, if necessary for operation, connected to a power source:

a. Air conditioning units, portable or window type;

b. Clothes washers and dryers; and

c. Food freezers, other than walk-in, and food in any freezer.

6. If you are a tenant and have insured personal property under Coverage B in this policy, we will cover such property, including your cooking stove or range and refrigerator. The policy will also cover improvements made or acquired solely at your expense in the dwelling or apartment in which you reside, but for not more than 10 percent of the limit of liability shown for personal property on the Declarations Page. Use of this insurance is at your option but reduces the personal property limit of liability.

7. If you are the owner of a unit and have insured personal property under Coverage B in this policy, we will also cover your interior walls, floor, and ceiling (not otherwise insured under a flood insurance policy purchased by your condominium association) for not more than 10 percent of the limit of liability shown for personal property on the Declarations Page. Use of this insurance is at your option but reduces the personal property limit of liability.

8. Special Limits. We will pay no more than $2,500 for any one loss to one or more of the following kinds of personal property:

a. Artwork, photographs, collectibles, or memorabilia, including but not limited to, porcelain or other figures, and sports cards;

b. Rare books or autographed items;

c. Jewelry, watches, precious and semi-precious stones, or articles of gold, silver, or platinum;

d. Furs or any article containing fur that represents its principal value; or

e. Personal property used in any business.

9. We will pay only for the functional value of antiques.

a. We will pay the expense to remove non-owned debris that is on or in insured property and debris of insured property anywhere.

b. If you or a member of your household perform the removal work, the value of your work will be based on the Federal minimum wage.

c. This coverage does not increase the Coverage A or Coverage B limit of liability.

(1) We will pay up to $1,000 for costs you incur to protect the insured building from a flood or imminent danger of flood, for the following:

(a) Your reasonable expenses to buy:

(i) Sandbags, including sand to fill them;

(ii) Fill for temporary levees;

(iii) Pumps; and

(iv) Plastic sheeting and lumber used in connection with these items.

(b) The value of work, at the Federal minimum wage, that you or a member of your household perform.

(2) This coverage for Sandbags, Supplies, and Labor only applies if damage to insured property by or from flood is imminent and the threat of flood damage is apparent enough to lead a person of common prudence to anticipate flood damage. One of the following must also occur:

(a) A general and temporary condition of flooding in the area near the described location must occur, even if the flood does not reach the building; or

(b) A legally authorized official must issue an evacuation order or other civil order for the community in which the building is located calling for measures to preserve life and property from the peril of flood.

This coverage does not increase the Coverage A or Coverage B limit of liability.

(1) We will pay up to $1,000 for the reasonable expenses you incur to move insured property to a place other than the described location that contains the property in order to protect it from flood or the imminent danger of flood. Reasonable expenses include the value of work, at the Federal minimum wage, you or a member of your household perform.

(2) If you move insured property to a location other than the described location that contains the property in order to protect it from flood or the imminent danger of flood, we will cover such property while at that location for a period of 45 consecutive days from the date you begin to move it there. The personal property that is moved must be placed in a fully enclosed building or otherwise reasonably protected from the elements.

(3) Any property removed, including a moveable home described in II.6.b and c, must be placed above ground level or outside of the special flood hazard area.

(4) This coverage does not increase the Coverage A or Coverage B limit of liability.

a. Subject to III.C.3.b below, if this policy insures a condominium unit, we will pay, up to the Coverage A limit of liability, your share of loss assessments charged against you by the condominium association in accordance with the condominium association's articles of association, declarations and your deed. The assessment must be made because of direct physical loss by or from flood during the policy term, to the unit or to the common elements of the NFIP insured condominium building in which this unit is located.

b. We will not pay any loss assessment:

(1) Charged against you and the condominium association by any governmental body;

(2) That results from a deductible under the insurance purchased by the condominium association insuring common elements;

(3) That results from a loss to personal property, including contents of a condominium building;

(4) In which the total payment combined under all policies exceeds the maximum amount of coverage available under the Act for a single unit in a condominium building where the unit is insured under both a Dwelling Policy and a RCBAP; or

(5) On any item of damage that has already been paid under a RCBAP where a single unit in a condominium building is insured by both a Dwelling Policy and a RCBAP.

c. Condominium Loss Assessment coverage does not increase the Coverage A Limit of Liability and is subject to the maximum coverage limits available for a single-family dwelling under the Act, payable between all policies issued and covering the unit, under the Act.

This policy pays you to comply with a State or local floodplain management law or ordinance affecting repair or reconstruction of a building suffering flood damage. Compliance activities eligible for payment are: elevation, floodproofing, relocation, or demolition (or any combination of these activities) of your building. Eligible floodproofing activities are limited to:

a. Non-residential buildings.

b. Residential buildings with basements that satisfy FEMA's standards published in the Code of Federal Regulations [44 CFR 60.6(b) or (c)].

We will pay you up to $30,000 under this Coverage D-Increased Cost of Compliance, which only applies to policies with building coverage (Coverage A). Our payment of claims under Coverage D is in addition to the amount of coverage which you selected on the application and which appears on the Declarations Page. But the maximum you can collect under this policy for both Coverage A-Building Property and Coverage D-Increased Cost of Compliance cannot exceed the maximum permitted under the Act. We do not charge a separate deductible for a claim under Coverage D.

a. A building insured under Coverage A-Building Property sustaining a loss caused by a flood as defined by this policy must:

(1) Be a "repetitive loss building." A repetitive loss building is one that meets the following conditions:

(a) The building is insured by a contract of flood insurance issued under the NFIP.

(b) The building has suffered flood damage on two occasions during a 10-year period which ends on the date of the second loss.

(c) The cost to repair the flood damage, on average, equaled or exceeded 25 percent of the market value of the building at the time of each flood loss.

(d) In addition to the current claim, the NFIP must have paid the previous qualifying claim, and the State or community must have a cumulative, substantial damage provision or repetitive loss provision in its floodplain management law or ordinance being enforced against the building; or

(2) Be a building that has had flood damage in which the cost to repair equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the building at the time of the flood. The State or community must have a substantial damage provision in its floodplain management law or ordinance being enforced against the building.

b. This Coverage D pays you to comply with State or local floodplain management laws or ordinances that meet the minimum standards of the National Flood Insurance Program found in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 CFR 60.3. We pay for compliance activities that exceed those standards under these conditions:

(1) 3.a.1 above.

(2) Elevation or floodproofing in any risk zone to preliminary or advisory base flood elevations provided by FEMA which the State or local government has adopted and is enforcing for flood-damaged buildings in such areas. (This includes compliance activities in B, C, X, or D zones which are being changed to zones with base flood elevations. This also includes compliance activities in zones where base flood elevations are being increased, and a flood-damaged building must comply with the higher advisory base flood elevation.) Increased Cost of Compliance coverage does not apply to situations in B, C, X, or D zones where the community has derived its own elevations and is enforcing elevation or floodproofing requirements for flood-damaged buildings to elevations derived solely by the community.
