
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(1) to Part 61
###### i.e.,

(3) Elevation or floodproofing above the base flood elevation to meet State or local "free-board" requirements,that a building must be elevated above the base flood elevation.

c. Under the minimum NFIP criteria at 44 CFR 60.3(b)(4), States and communities must require the elevation or floodproofing of buildings in unnumbered A zones to the base flood elevation where elevation data is obtained from a Federal, State, or other source. Such compliance activities are eligible for Coverage D.

d. Coverage D will pay for the incremental cost, after demolition or relocation, of elevating or floodproofing a building during its rebuilding at the same or another site to meet State or local floodplain management laws or ordinances, subject to Coverage D Exclusion 5.g below.

e. Coverage D will pay to bring a flood-damaged building into compliance with State or local floodplain management laws or ordinances even if the building had received a variance before the present loss from the applicable floodplain management requirements.

a. When a building insured under Coverage A-Building Property sustains a loss caused by a flood, our payment for the loss under this Coverage D will be for the increased cost to elevate, floodproof, relocate, or demolish (or any combination of these activities) caused by the enforcement of current State or local floodplain management ordinances or laws. Our payment for eligible demolition activities will be for the cost to demolish and clear the site of the building debris or a portion thereof caused by the enforcement of current State or local floodplain management ordinances or laws. Eligible activities for the cost of clearing the site will include those necessary to discontinue utility service to the site and ensure proper abandonment of on-site utilities.

b. When the building is repaired or rebuilt, it must be intended for the same occupancy as the present building unless otherwise required by current floodplain management ordinances or laws.

Under this Coverage D (Increased Cost of Compliance), we will not pay for:

a. The cost to comply with any floodplain management law or ordinance in communities participating in the Emergency Program.

b. The cost associated with enforcement of any ordinance or law that requires any insured or others to test for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in any way respond to, or assess the effects of pollutants.

c. The loss in value to any insured building due to the requirements of any ordinance or law.

d. The loss in residual value of the undamaged portion of a building demolished as a consequence of enforcement of any State or local floodplain management law or ordinance.

e. Any Increased Cost of Compliance under this Coverage D:

(1) Until the building is elevated, floodproofed, demolished, or relocated on the same or to another premises; and

(2) Unless the building is elevated, floodproofed, demolished, or relocated as soon as reasonably possible after the loss, not to exceed two years.
