
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(1) to Part 61
###### e.g.,

f. Any code upgrade requirements,plumbing or electrical wiring, not specifically related to the State or local floodplain management law or ordinance.

g. Any compliance activities needed to bring additions or improvements made after the loss occurred into compliance with State or local floodplain management laws or ordinances.

h. Loss due to any ordinance or law that you were required to comply with before the current loss.

i. Any rebuilding activity to standards that do not meet the NFIP's minimum requirements. This includes any situation where the insured has received from the State or community a variance in connection with the current flood loss to rebuild the property to an elevation below the base flood elevation.

j. Increased Cost of Compliance for a garage or carport.

k. Any building insured under an NFIP Group Flood Insurance Policy.

l. Assessments made by a condominium association on individual condominium unit owners to pay increased costs of repairing commonly owned buildings after a flood in compliance with State or local floodplain management ordinances or laws.

a. Increased Cost of Compliance coverage will not be included in the calculation to determine whether coverage meets the 80 percent insurance-to-value requirement for replacement cost coverage as set forth in Art. VII.R ("Loss Settlement") of this policy.

b. All other conditions and provisions of this policy apply.

We do not insure any of the following:

1. Personal property not inside a building.

2. A building, and personal property in it, located entirely in, on, or over water or seaward of mean high tide if it was constructed or substantially improved after September 30, 1982.

3. Open structures, including a building used as a boathouse or any structure or building into which boats are floated, and personal property located in, on, or over water.
