
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(1) to Part 61
###### see

4. Recreational vehicles other than travel trailers described in the Definitions section (II.C.6.c) whether affixed to a permanent foundation or on wheels.

5. Self-propelled vehicles or machines, including their parts and equipment. However, we do cover self-propelled vehicles or machines not licensed for use on public roads that are:

a. Used mainly to service the described location; or

b. Designed and used to assist handicapped persons, while the vehicles or machines are inside a building at the described location.

6. Land, land values, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, growing crops, or animals.

7. Accounts, bills, coins, currency, deeds, evidences of debt, medals, money, scrip, stored value cards, postage stamps, securities, bullion, manuscripts, or other valuable papers.

8. Underground structures and equipment, including wells, septic tanks, and septic systems.

9. Those portions of walks, walkways, decks, driveways, patios and other surfaces, all whether protected by a roof or not, located outside the perimeter, exterior walls of the insured building or the building in which the insured unit is located.

10. Containers, including related equipment, such as, but not limited to, tanks containing gases or liquids.

11. Buildings or units and all their contents if more than 49 percent of the actual cash value of the building is below ground, unless the lowest level is at or above the base flood elevation and is below ground by reason of earth having been used as insulation material in conjunction with energy efficient building techniques.

12. Fences, retaining walls, seawalls, bulkheads, wharves, piers, bridges, and docks.

13. Aircraft or watercraft, or their furnishings and equipment.

14. Hot tubs and spas that are not bathroom fixtures, and swimming pools, and their equipment, such as, but not limited to, heaters, filters, pumps, and pipes, wherever located.

15. Property not eligible for flood insurance pursuant to the provisions of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act and the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act and amendments to these acts.

16. Personal property you own in common with other unit owners comprising the membership of a condominium association.

A. We only pay for direct physical loss by or from flood, which means that we do not pay you for:

1. Loss of revenue or profits;

2. Loss of access to the insured property or described location;

3. Loss of use of the insured property or described location;

4. Loss from interruption of business or production;

5. Any additional living expenses incurred while the insured building is being repaired or is unable to be occupied for any reason;

6. The cost of complying with any ordinance or law requiring or regulating the construction, demolition, remodeling, renovation, or repair of property, including removal of any resulting debris. This exclusion does not apply to any eligible activities we describe in Coverage D-Increased Cost of Compliance; or

7. Any other economic loss you suffer.
