
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(1) to Part 61
###### Note:

The Coverage D-Increased Cost of Compliance limit of liability is not included in the determination of the amount of insurance required.

1. With respect to all insureds under this policy, this policy is void and has no legal force and effect if at any time, before or after a loss, you or any other insured or your agent have, with respect to this policy or any other NFIP insurance:

a. Concealed or misrepresented any material fact or circumstance;

b. Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or

c. Made false statements.

2. Policies voided under A.1 cannot be renewed or replaced by a new NFIP policy.

3. Policies are void as of the date the acts described in A.1 above were committed.

4. Fines, civil penalties, and imprisonment under applicable Federal laws may also apply to the acts of fraud or concealment described above.

1. This policy is void from its inception, and has no legal force or effect, if:

a. The property listed on the application is located in a community that was not participating in the NFIP on this policy's inception date and did not join or reenter the program during the policy term and before the loss occurred;

b. The property listed on the application is otherwise not eligible for coverage under the NFIP at the time of the initial application;

c. You never had an insurable interest in the property listed on the application;

d. You provided an agent with an application and payment, but the payment did not clear; or

e. We receive notice from you, prior to the policy effective date, that you have determined not to take the policy and you are not subject to a requirement to obtain and maintain flood insurance pursuant to any statute, regulation, or contract.

2. In such cases, you will be entitled to a full refund of all premium, fees, and surcharges received. However, if a claim was paid for a policy that is void, the claim payment must be returned to FEMA or offset from the premiums to be refunded before the refund will be processed.

1. You may cancel this policy in accordance with the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

2. If you cancel this policy, you may be entitled to a full or partial refund of premium, surcharges, or fees under the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

1. Cancellation for Underpayment of Amounts Owed on Policy. This policy will be cancelled, pursuant to VII.D.2, if it is determined that the premium amount you paid is not sufficient to buy any amount of coverage, and you do not pay the additional amount of premium owed to increase the coverage to the originally requested amount within the required time period.

2. Cancellation Due to Lack of an Insurable Interest.

a. If you no longer have an insurable interest in the insured property, we will cancel this policy. You will cease to have an insurable interest if:

(1) For building coverage, the building was sold, destroyed, or removed.

(2) For contents coverage, the contents were sold or transferred ownership, or the contents were completely removed from the described location.

b. If your policy is cancelled for this reason, you may be entitled to a partial refund of premium under the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

3. Cancellation of Duplicate Policies

a. Except as allowed under Article I.G, your property may not be insured by more than one NFIP policy, and payment for damages to your property will only be made under one policy.

b. Except as allowed under Article I.G, if the property is insured by more than one NFIP policy, we will cancel all but one of the policies. The policy, or policies, will be selected for cancellation in accordance with 44 CFR 62.5 and the applicable rules and guidance of the NFIP.

c. If this policy is cancelled pursuant to VIII.D.3.b, you may be entitled to a full or partial refund of premium, surcharges, or fees under the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

4. Cancellation Due to Physical Alteration of Property

a. If the insured building has been physically altered in such a manner that it is no longer eligible for flood insurance coverage, we will cancel this policy.

b. If your policy is cancelled for this reason, you may be entitled to a partial refund of premium under the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

Your policy will not be renewed if:

1. The community where your insured property is located is suspended or stops participating in the NFIP;

2. Your building is otherwise ineligible for flood insurance under the Act;

3. You have failed to provide the information we requested for the purpose of rating the policy within the required deadline.

If we make a change that broadens your coverage under this edition of our policy, but does not require any additional premium, then that change will automatically apply to your insurance as of the date we implement the change, provided that this implementation date falls within 60 days before or during the policy term stated on the Declarations Page.
