
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(2) to Part 61

Please read the policy carefully. The flood insurance provided is subject to limitations, restrictions, and exclusions.

A. Coverage Under This Policy

1. Except as provided in I.A.2, this policy provides coverage for multifamily buildings (residential buildings designed for use by 5 or more families that are not condominium buildings), non-residential buildings, and their contents.

2. There is no coverage for a residential condominium building in a regular program community, except for personal property coverage for a unit in a condominium building.

B. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) provides flood insurance under the terms of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and its amendments, and Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

C. We will pay you for direct physical loss by or from flood to your insured property if you:

1. Have paid the full amount due (including applicable premiums, surcharges, and fees);

2. Comply with all terms and conditions of this policy; and

3. Have furnished accurate information and statements.

D. We have the right to review the information you give us at any time and revise your policy based on our review.

E. This policy insures only one building. If you own more than one building, coverage will apply to the single building specifically described in the Flood Insurance Application.

F. Multiple policies with building coverage cannot be issued to insure a single building to one insured or to different insureds, even if issued through different NFIP insurers. Payment for damages may only be made under a single policy for building damages under Coverage A-Building Property.

A. In this policy, "you" and "your" refer to the named insured(s) shown on the Declarations Page of this policy. Insured(s) also includes: Any mortgagee and loss payee named in the Application and Declarations Page, as well as any other mortgagee or loss payee determined to exist at the time of loss, in the order of precedence. "We," "us," and "our" refer to the insurer.

Some definitions are complex because they are provided as they appear in the law or regulations, or result from court cases.
