
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 6 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart C - Individual Access to Records
###### ยง 6.32 Granting access.

(a) Upon receipt of a request for access to non-exempt records, the system manager shall make these records available to the subject individual or shall acknowledge the request within 10 workdays of its receipt by FEMA. The acknowledgment shall indicate when the system manager will make the records available.

(b) If the system manager anticipates more than a 10 day delay in making a record available, he or she also shall include in the acknowledgment specific reasons for the delay.

(c) If a subject individual's request for access does not contain sufficient information to permit the system manager to locate the records, the system manager shall request additional information from the individual and shall have 10 workdays following receipt of the additional information in which to make the records available or to acknowledge receipt of the request and indicate when the records will be available.

(d) Records will be available for authorized access during normal business hours at the offices where the records are located. A requestor should be prepared to identify himself or herself by signature; i.e., to note by signature the date of access and/or produce other identification verifying the signature.

(e) Upon request, a system manager shall permit an individual to examine the original of a non-exempt record, shall provide the individual with a copy of the record, or both. Fees shall be charged in accordance with subpart F.

(f) An individual may request to pick up a record in person or to receive it by mail, directed to the name and address provided by the individual in the request. A system manager shall not make a record available to a third party for delivery to the subject individual except for medical records as outlined in ยง 6.31.

(g) An individual who selects another person to review, or to accompany the individual in reviewing or obtaining a copy of the record must, prior to the disclosure, sign a statement authorizing the disclosure of the record. The system manager shall maintain this statement with the record.

(h) The procedure for access to an accounting of disclosure is identical to the procedure for access to a record as set forth in this section.
