
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 6 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### Subpart C - Individual Access to Records
###### ยง 6.33 Denials of access.

(a) A system manager may deny an individual access to that individual's record only upon the grounds that FEMA has published the rules in theexempting the pertinent system of records from the access requirement. These exempt systems of records are described in subpart G of this part.

(b) Upon receipt of a request for access to a record which the system manager believes is contained within an exempt system of records he or she shall forward the request to the appropriate official listed below or to his or her delegate through normal supervisory channels.

(1) Deputy Administrators.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Federal Insurance Administrator.

(4) Assistant Administrators.

(5) United States Fire Administrator.

(6) Chief of Staff.

(7) Office Directors.

(8) Chief Counsel.

(9) [Reserved]

(10) Chief Financial Officer.

(11) Regional Administrators.

(c) In the event that the system manager serves in one of the positions listed in paragraph (b) of this section, he or she shall retain the responsibility for denying or granting the request.

(d) The appropriate official listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall, in consultation with the Office of Chief Counsel and such other officials as deemed appropriate, determine if the request record is contained within an exempt system of records and:

(1) If the record is not contained within an exempt system of records, the above official shall notify the system manager to grant the request in accordance with ยง 6.32, or

(2) If the record is contained within an exempt system said official shall;

(i) Notify the requestor that the request is denied, including a statement justifying the denial and advising the requestor of a right to judicial review of that decision as provided in ยง 6.57, or

(ii) Notify the system manager to make record available to the requestor in accordance with ยง 6.31, notwithstanding the record's inclusion within an exempt system.

(e) The appropriate official listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall provide the Privacy Appeals Office with a copy of any denial of a requested access.
