
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(2) to Part 61
###### Valued Policy.

30.A policy in which the insured and the insurer agree on the value of the property insured, that value being payable in the event of a total loss. The Standard Flood Insurance Policy is not a valued policy.

We insure against direct physical loss by or from flood to:

1. The building described on the Declarations Page at the described location. If the building is a condominium building and the named insured is the condominium association, Coverage A includes all units within the building and the improvements within the units, provided the units are owned in common by all unit owners.

2. Building property located at another location for a period of 45 days at another location, as set forth in III.C.2.b, Property Removed to Safety.

3. Additions and extensions attached to and in contact with the building by means of a rigid exterior wall, a solid load-bearing interior wall, a stairway, an elevated walkway, or a roof. At your option, additions and extensions connected by any of these methods may be separately insured. Additions and extensions attached to and in contact with the building by means of a common interior wall that is not a solid load-bearing wall are always considered part of the building and cannot be separately insured.

4. The following fixtures, machinery, and equipment, which are insured under Coverage A only:

a. Awnings and canopies;

b. Blinds;

c. Carpet permanently installed over unfinished flooring;

d. Central air conditioners;

e. Elevator equipment;

f. Fire extinguishing apparatus;

g. Fire sprinkler systems;

h. Walk-in freezers;

i. Furnaces;

j. Light fixtures;

k. Outdoor antennas and aerials attached to buildings;

l. Permanently installed cupboards, bookcases, paneling, and wallpaper;

m. Pumps and machinery for operating pumps;

n. Ventilating equipment;

o. Wall mirrors, permanently installed; and

p. In the units within the building, installed:

(1) Built-in dishwashers;

(2) Built-in microwave ovens;

(3) Garbage disposal units;

(4) Hot water heaters, including solar water heaters;

(5) Kitchen cabinets;

(6) Plumbing fixtures;

(7) Radiators;

(8) Ranges;

(9) Refrigerators; and

(10) Stoves.

5. Materials and supplies to be used for construction, alteration, or repair of the insured building while the materials and supplies are stored in a fully enclosed building at the described location or on an adjacent property.

6. A building under construction, alteration, or repair at the described location.
