
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(2) to Part 61
###### see

a. If the structure is not yet walled or roofed as described in the definition for building (II.C.6.a) then coverage applies:

(1) Only while such work is in progress; or

(2) If such work is halted, only for a period of up to 90 continuous days thereafter.

b. However, coverage does not apply until the building is walled and roofed if the lowest floor, including the basement floor, of a non-elevated building or the lowest elevated floor of an elevated building is:

(1) Below the base flood elevation in Zones AH, AE, A1-A30, AR, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, AR/A, AR/AO; or

(2) Below the base flood elevation adjusted to include the effect of wave action in Zones VE or V1-V30.

The lowest floor level is based on the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the floor in Zones VE or V1-V30 or the top of the floor in Zones AH, AE, A1-A30, AR, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, AR/A, and AR/AO.

7. A manufactured home or a travel trailer, as described in the II.C.6. If the manufactured home or travel trailer is in a special flood hazard area, it must be anchored in the following manner at the time of the loss:

a. By over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors; or

b. In accordance with the manufacturer's specifications; or

c. In compliance with the community's floodplain management requirements unless it has been continuously insured by the NFIP at the same described location since September 30, 1982.

8. Items of property below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated post-FIRM building located in zones A1-A30, AE, AH, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, V1-V30, or VE, or in a basement regardless of the zone. Coverage is limited to the following:

a. Any of the following items, if installed in their functioning locations and, if necessary for operation, connected to a power source:

(1) Central air conditioners;

(2) Cisterns and the water in them;

(3) Drywall for walls and ceilings in a basement and the cost of labor to nail it, unfinished and unfloated and not taped, to the framing;

(4) Electrical junction and circuit breaker boxes;

(5) Electrical outlets and switches;

(6) Elevators, dumbwaiters, and related equipment, except for related equipment installed below the base flood elevation after September 30, 1987;

(7) Fuel tanks and the fuel in them;

(8) Furnaces and hot water heaters;

(9) Heat pumps;

(10) Nonflammable insulation in a basement;

(11) Pumps and tanks used in solar energy systems;

(12) Stairways and staircases attached to the building, not separated from it by elevated walkways;

(13) Sump pumps;

(14) Water softeners and the chemicals in them, water filters, and faucets installed as an integral part of the plumbing system;

(15) Well water tanks and pumps;

(16) Required utility connections for any item in this list; and

(17) Footings, foundations, posts, pilings, piers, or other foundation walls and anchorage systems required to support a building.

b. Clean-up.

1. If you have purchased personal property coverage, we insure, subject to B.2-4 below, against direct physical loss by or from flood to personal property inside the fully enclosed insured building:

a. Owned solely by you, or in the case of a condominium, owned solely by the condominium association and used exclusively in the conduct of the business affairs of the condominium association; or

b. Owned in common by the unit owners of the condominium association.

2. We also insure such personal property for 45 days while stored at a temporary location, as set forth in III.C.2.b, Property Removed to Safety.

3. When this policy insures personal property, coverage will be either for household personal property or other than household personal property, while within the insured building, but not both.

a. If this policy insures household personal property, it will insure household personal property usual to a living quarters, that:

(1) Belongs to you, or a member of your household, or at your option:

(a) Your domestic worker;

(b) Your guest; or

(2) You may be legally liable for.

b. If this policy insures other than household personal property, it will insure your:

(1) Furniture and fixtures;

(2) Machinery and equipment;

(3) Stock; and

(4) Other personal property owned by you and used in your business, subject to IV, Property Not Insured.

4. Coverage for personal property includes the following property, subject to B.1.a and B.1.b above, which is insured under Coverage B, only:

a. Air conditioning units, portable or window type;

b. Carpets, not permanently installed, over unfinished flooring;

c. Carpets over finished flooring;

d. Clothes washers and dryers;

e. "Cook-out" grills;

f. Food freezers, other than walk-in, and food in any freezer;

g. Outdoor equipment and furniture stored inside the insured building;

h. Ovens and the like; and

i. Portable microwave ovens and portable dishwashers.

5. Coverage for items of property below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated post-FIRM building located in Zones A1-A30, AE, AH, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/A1-A30, V1-V30, or VE, or in a basement regardless of the zone, is limited to the following items, if installed in their functioning locations and, if necessary for operation, connected to a power source:

a. Air conditioning units, portable or window type;

b. Clothes washers and dryers; and

c. Food freezers, other than walk-in, and food in any freezer.

6. Special Limits. We will pay no more than $2,500 for any loss to one or more of the following kinds of personal property:

a. Artwork, photographs, collectibles, or memorabilia, including but not limited to, porcelain or other figures, and sports cards.

b. Rare books or autographed items.

c. Jewelry, watches, precious and semi-precious stones, or articles of gold, silver, or platinum.

d. Furs or any article containing fur that represents its principal value.

7. We will pay only for the functional value of antiques.

8. If you are a tenant, you may apply up to 10 percent of the Coverage B limit to improvements:

a. Made a part of the building you occupy; and

b. You acquired, or made at your expense, even though you cannot legally remove.

This coverage does not increase the amount of insurance that applies to insured personal property.

9. If you are a condominium unit owner, you may apply up to 10 percent of the Coverage B limit to cover loss to interior:

a. walls,

b. floors, and

c. ceilings,

This coverage does not increase the amount of insurance that applies to insured personal property.

10. If you are a tenant, personal property must be inside the fully enclosed building.

a. We will pay the expense to remove non-owned debris that is on or in insured property and debris of insured property anywhere.

b. If you or a member of your household perform the removal work, the value of your work will be based on the Federal minimum wage.

c. This coverage does not increase the Coverage A or Coverage B limit of liability.

a. Sandbags, Supplies, and Labor

(1) We will pay up to $1,000 for costs you incur to protect the insured building from a flood or imminent danger of flood, for the following:

(a) Your reasonable expenses to buy:

(i) Sandbags, including sand to fill them;

(ii) Fill for temporary levees;

(iii) Pumps; and

(iv) Plastic sheeting and lumber used in connection with these items.

(b) The value of work, at the Federal minimum wage, that you perform.

(2) This coverage for Sandbags, Supplies, and Labor only applies if damage to insured property by or from flood is imminent and the threat of flood damage is apparent enough to lead a person of common prudence to anticipate flood damage. One of the following must also occur:

(a) A general and temporary condition of flooding in the area near the described location must occur, even if the flood does not reach the building; or

(b) A legally authorized official must issue an evacuation order or other civil order for the community in which the building is located calling for measures to preserve life and property from the peril of flood.

This coverage does not increase the Coverage A or Coverage B limit of liability.

b. Property Removed to Safety

(1) We will pay up to $1,000 for the reasonable expenses you incur to move insured property to a place other than the described location that contains the property in order to protect it from flood or the imminent danger of flood. Reasonable expenses include the value of work, at the Federal minimum wage, you or a member of your household perform.

(2) If you move insured property to a location other than the described location that contains the property in order to protect it from flood or the imminent danger of flood, we will cover such property while at that location for a period of 45 consecutive days from the date you begin to move it there. The personal property that is moved must be placed in a fully enclosed building or otherwise reasonably protected from the elements.

(3) Any property removed, including a moveable home described in II.6, must be placed above ground level or outside of the special flood hazard area.

(4) This coverage does not increase the Coverage A or Coverage B limit of liability.

We will pay for damage caused by pollutants to insured property if the discharge, seepage, migration, release, or escape of the pollutants is caused by or results from flood. The most we will pay under this coverage is $10,000. This coverage does not increase the Coverage A or Coverage B limits of liability. Any payment under this provision when combined with all other payments for the same loss cannot exceed the replacement cost or actual cash value, as appropriate, of the insured property. This coverage does not include the testing for or monitoring of pollutants unless required by law or ordinance.

This policy pays you to comply with a State or local floodplain management law or ordinance affecting repair or reconstruction of a building suffering flood damage. Compliance activities eligible for payment are: elevation, floodproofing, relocation, or demolition (or any combination of these activities) of your building. Eligible floodproofing activities are limited to:

a. Non-residential buildings.

b. Residential buildings with basements that satisfy FEMA's standards published in the Code of Federal Regulations [44 CFR 60.6(b) or (c)].

We will pay you up to $30,000 under this Coverage D (Increased Cost of Compliance), which only applies to policies with building coverage (Coverage A). Our payment of claims under Coverage D is in addition to the amount of coverage which you selected on the application and which appears on the Declarations Page. However, the maximum you can collect under this policy for both Coverage A (Building Property) and Coverage D (Increased Cost of Compliance) cannot exceed the maximum permitted under the Act. We do NOT charge a separate deductible for a claim under Coverage D.

a. A building insured under Coverage A (Building Property) sustaining a loss caused by a flood as defined by this policy must:

(1) Be a "repetitive loss building." A repetitive loss building is one that meets the following conditions:

(a) The building is insured by a contract of flood insurance issued under the NFIP.

(b) The building has suffered flood damage on two occasions during a 10-year period which ends on the date of the second loss.

(c) The cost to repair the flood damage, on average, equaled or exceeded 25 percent of the market value of the building at the time of each flood loss.

(d) In addition to the current claim, the NFIP must have paid the previous qualifying claim, and the State or community must have a cumulative, substantial damage provision or repetitive loss provision in its floodplain management law or ordinance being enforced against the building; or

(2) Be a building that has had flood damage in which the cost to repair equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the building at the time of the flood. The State or community must have a substantial damage provision in its floodplain management law or ordinance being enforced against the building.

b. This Coverage D pays you to comply with State or local floodplain management laws or ordinances that meet the minimum standards of the National Flood Insurance Program found in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 CFR 60.3. We pay for compliance activities that exceed those standards under these conditions:

(1) 3.a.1 above.

(2) Elevation or floodproofing in any risk zone to preliminary or advisory base flood elevations provided by FEMA which the State or local government has adopted and is enforcing for flood-damaged buildings in such areas. (This includes compliance activities in B, C, X, or D zones which are being changed to zones with base flood elevations. This also includes compliance activities in zones where base flood elevations are being increased, and a flood-damaged building must comply with the higher advisory base flood elevation.) Increased Cost of Compliance coverage does not apply to situations in B, C, X, or D zones where the community has derived its own elevations and is enforcing elevation or floodproofing requirements for flood-damaged buildings to elevations derived solely by the community.
