
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(2) to Part 61
###### see

We do, however, pay for losses from mudflow and land subsidence as a result of erosion that are specifically insured under our definition of flood (II.B.1.c and II.B.2).

D. We do not insure for direct physical loss caused directly or indirectly by:

1. The pressure or weight of ice;

2. Freezing or thawing;

3. Rain, snow, sleet, hail, or water spray;

4. Water, moisture, mildew, or mold damage that results primarily from any condition:

a. Substantially confined to the insured building; or

b. That is within your control including, but not limited to:

(1) Design, structural, or mechanical defects;

(2) Failures, stoppages, or breakage of water or sewer lines, drains, pumps, fixtures, or equipment; or

(3) Failure to inspect and maintain the property after a flood recedes;

5. Water or water-borne material that:

a. Backs up through sewers or drains;

b. Discharges or overflows from a sump, sump pump, or related equipment; or

c. Seeps or leaks on or through the insured property;

unless there is a flood in the area and the flood is the proximate cause of the sewer or drain backup, sump pump discharge or overflow, or the seepage of water;

6. The pressure or weight of water unless there is a flood in the area and the flood is the proximate cause of the damage from the pressure or weight of water;

7. Power, heating, or cooling failure unless the failure results from direct physical loss by or from flood to power, heating, or cooling equipment on the described location;

8. Theft, fire, explosion, wind, or windstorm;

9. Anything you or any member of your household do or conspires to do to deliberately cause loss by flood; or

10. Alteration of the insured property that significantly increases the risk of flooding.

E. We do not insure for loss to any building or personal property located on land leased from the Federal Government, arising from or incident to the flooding of the land by the Federal Government, where the lease expressly holds the Federal Government harmless under flood insurance issued under any Federal Government program.

A. When a loss is insured under this policy, we will pay only that part of the loss that exceeds your deductible amount, subject to the limit of liability that applies. The deductible amount is shown on the Declarations Page.

However, when a building under construction, alteration, or repair does not have at least two rigid exterior walls and a fully secured roof at the time of loss, your deductible amount will be two times the deductible that would otherwise apply to a completed building.

B. In each loss from flood, separate deductibles apply to the building and personal property insured by this policy.

C. The deductible does NOT apply to:

1. III.C.2. Loss Avoidance Measures; or

2. III.D. Increased Cost of Compliance.

In case of loss to an article that is part of a pair or set, we will have the option of paying you:

1. An amount equal to the cost of replacing the lost, damaged, or destroyed article, minus its depreciation; or

2. The amount that represents the fair proportion of the total value of the pair or set that the lost, damaged, or destroyed article bears to the pair or set.

1. If a loss insured by this policy is also insured by other insurance that includes flood coverage not issued under the Act, we will not pay more than the amount of insurance that you are entitled to for lost, damaged, or destroyed property insured under this policy subject to the following:

a. We will pay only the proportion of the loss that the amount of insurance that applies under this policy bears to the total amount of insurance covering the loss, unless VII.B.1.b or c below applies.

b. If the other policy has a provision stating that it is excess insurance, this policy will be primary.

c. This policy will be primary (but subject to its own deductible) up to the deductible in the other flood policy (except another policy as described in VII.B.1.b above). When the other deductible amount is reached, this policy will participate in the same proportion that the amount of insurance under this policy bears to the total amount of both policies, for the remainder of the loss.

2. Where this policy insures a condominium association and there is a National Flood Insurance Program flood insurance policy in the name of a unit owner that insures the same loss as this policy, then this policy will be primary.

This policy cannot be changed, nor can any of its provisions be waived, without the express written consent of the Federal Insurance Administrator. No action that we take under the terms of this policy can constitute a waiver of any of our rights. You may assign this policy in writing when you transfer title of your property to someone else except under these conditions:

1. When this policy insures only personal property; or

2. When this policy insures a building under construction.

1. Applicability. The following provisions apply to all instances where the premium paid on this policy is insufficient or where the rating information is insufficient, such as where an Elevation Certificate is not provided.

2. Reforming the Policy with Reduced Coverage. Except as otherwise provided in VII.D.1 and VII.D.4, if the premium we received from you was not sufficient to buy the kinds and amounts of coverage you requested, we will provide only the kinds and amounts of coverage that can be purchased for the premium payment we received.

a. For the purpose of determining whether your premium payment is sufficient to buy the kinds and amounts of coverage you requested, we will first deduct the costs of all applicable fees and surcharges.

b. If the amount paid, after deducting the costs of all applicable fees and surcharges, is not sufficient to buy any amount of coverage, your payment will be refunded. Unless the policy is reformed to increase the coverage amount to the amount originally requested pursuant to VII.D.3, this policy will be cancelled, and no claims will be paid under this policy.

c. Coverage limits on the reformed policy will be based upon the amount of premium submitted per type of coverage, but will not exceed the amount originally requested.

3. Discovery of Insufficient Premium or Rating Information. If we discover that your premium payment was not sufficient to buy the requested amount of coverage, the policy will be reformed as described in VII.D.2. You have the option of increasing the amount of coverage resulting from this reformation to the amount you requested as follows:

a. Insufficient Premium. If we discover that your premium payment was not sufficient to buy the requested amount of coverage, we will send you, and any mortgagee or trustee known to us, a bill for the required additional premium for the current policy term (or that portion of the current policy term following any endorsement changing the amount of coverage). If it is discovered that the initial amount charged to you for any fees or surcharges is incorrect, the difference will be added or deducted, as applicable, to the total amount in this bill.

(1) If you or the mortgagee or trustee pay the additional amount due within 30 days from the date of our bill, we will reform the policy to increase the amount of coverage to the originally requested amount, effective to the beginning of the current policy term (or subsequent date of any endorsement changing the amount of coverage).

(2) If you or the mortgagee or trustee do not pay the additional amount due within 30 days of the date of our bill, any flood insurance claim will be settled based on the reduced amount of coverage.

(3) As applicable, you have the option of paying all or part of the amount due out of a claim payment based on the originally requested amount of coverage.

b. Insufficient Rating Information. If we determine that the rating information we have is insufficient and prevents us from calculating the additional premium, we will ask you to send the required information. You must submit the information within 60 days of our request.

(1) If we receive the information within 60 days of our request, we will determine the amount of additional premium for the current policy term and follow the procedure in VII.D.3.a above.

(2) If we do not receive the information within 60 days of our request, no claims will be paid until the requested information is provided. Coverage will be limited to the amount of coverage that can be purchased for the payments we received, as determined when the requested information is provided.

4. Coverage Increases. If we do not receive the amounts requested in VII.D.3.a or the additional information requested in VII.D.3.b by the date it is due, the amount of coverage under this policy can only be increased by endorsement subject to the appropriate waiting period. However, no coverage increases will be allowed until you have provided the information requested in VII.D.3.b is provided.

5. Falsifying Information. However, if we find that you or your agent intentionally did not tell us, or falsified, any important fact or circumstance or did anything fraudulent relating to this insurance, the provisions of VIII.A apply.

1. This policy will expire at 12:01 a.m. on the last day of the policy term.

2. We must receive the payment of the appropriate renewal premium within 30 days of the expiration date.
