
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(2) to Part 61
###### e.g.,

3. If we find, however, that we did not place your renewal notice into the U.S. Postal Service, or if we did mail it, we made a mistake,we used an incorrect, incomplete, or illegible address, which delayed its delivery to you before the due date for the renewal premium, then we will follow these procedures:

a. If you or your agent notified us, not later than one year after the date on which the payment of the renewal premium was due, of non-receipt of a renewal notice before the due date for the renewal premium, and we determine that the circumstances in the preceding paragraph apply, we will mail a second bill providing a revised due date, which will be 30 days after the date on which the bill is mailed.

b. If we do not receive the premium requested in the second bill by the revised due date, then we will not renew the policy. In that case, the policy will remain as an expired policy as of the expiration date shown on the Declarations Page.

4. In connection with the renewal of this policy, we may ask you during the policy term to recertify, on a Recertification Questionnaire that we will provide to you, the rating information used to rate your most recent application for or renewal of insurance.

We are not liable for loss that occurs while there is a hazard that is increased by any means within your control or knowledge.

In case of a flood loss to insured property, you must:

1. Give prompt written notice to us.

2. As soon as reasonably possible, separate the damaged and undamaged property, putting it in the best possible order so that we may examine it.

3. Prepare an inventory of damaged property showing the quantity, description, actual cash value, and amount of loss. Attach all bills, receipts, and related documents.

4. Within 60 days after the loss, send us a proof of loss, which is your statement of the amount you are claiming under the policy signed and sworn to by you, and which furnishes us with the following information:

a. The date and time of loss;

b. A brief explanation of how the loss happened;

c. Your interest (for example, "owner") and the interest, if any, of others in the damaged property;

d. Details of any other insurance that may cover the loss;

e. Changes in title or occupancy of the insured property during the term of the policy;

f. Specifications of damaged buildings and detailed repair estimates;

g. Names of mortgagees or anyone else having a lien, charge, or claim against the insured property;

h. Details about who occupied any insured building at the time of loss and for what purpose; and

i. The inventory of damaged personal property described in G.3 above.

5. In completing the proof of loss, you must use your own judgment concerning the amount of loss and justify that amount.

6. You must cooperate with the adjuster or representative in the investigation of the claim.

7. The insurance adjuster whom we hire to investigate your claim may furnish you with a proof of loss form, and she or he may help you complete it. However, this is a matter of courtesy only, and you must still send us a proof of loss within 60 days after the loss even if the adjuster does not furnish the form or help you complete it.

8. We have not authorized the adjuster to approve or disapprove claims or to tell you whether we will approve your claim.

9. At our option, we may accept the adjuster's report of the loss instead of your proof of loss. The adjuster's report will include information about your loss and the damages you sustained. You must sign the adjuster's report. At our option, we may require you to swear to the report.

Options we may, in our sole discretion, exercise after loss include the following:

1. At such reasonable times and places that we may designate, you must:

a. Show us or our representative the damaged property;

b. Submit to examination under oath, while not in the presence of another insured, and sign the same; and

c. Permit us to examine and make extracts and copies of:

(1) Any policies of property insurance insuring you against loss and the deed establishing your ownership of the insured real property;

(2) Condominium association documents including the Declarations of the condominium, its Articles of Association or Incorporation, Bylaws, rules and regulations, and other relevant documents if you are a unit owner in a condominium building; and

(3) All books of accounts, bills, invoices and other vouchers, or certified copies pertaining to the damaged property if the originals are lost.

2. We may request, in writing, that you furnish us with a complete inventory of the lost, damaged or destroyed property, including:

a. Quantities and costs;

b. Actual cash values or replacement cost (whichever is appropriate);

c. Amounts of loss claimed;

d. Any written plans and specifications for repair of the damaged property that you can reasonably make available to us; and

e. Evidence that prior flood damage has been repaired.

3. If we give you written notice within 30 days after we receive your signed, sworn proof of loss, we may:

a. Repair, rebuild, or replace any part of the lost, damaged, or destroyed property with material or property of like kind and quality or its functional equivalent; and

b. Take all or any part of the damaged property at the value that we agree upon or its appraised value.

No person or organization, other than you, having custody of insured property will benefit from this insurance.

1. We will adjust all losses with you. We will pay you unless some other person or entity is named in the policy or is legally entitled to receive payment. Loss will be payable 60 days after we receive your proof of loss (or within 90 days after the insurance adjuster files the adjuster's report signed and sworn to by you in lieu of a proof of loss) and:

a. We reach an agreement with you;

b. There is an entry of a final judgment; or

c. There is a filing of an appraisal award with us, as provided in VII.M.

2. If we reject your proof of loss in whole or in part you may:

a. Accept our denial of your claim;

b. Exercise your rights under this policy; or

c. File an amended proof of loss as long as it is filed within 60 days of the date of the loss.

You may not abandon damaged or undamaged insured property to us.

We may permit you to keep damaged insured property after a loss, and we will reduce the amount of the loss proceeds payable to you under the policy by the value of the salvage.

If you and we fail to agree on the actual cash value of the damaged property so as to determine the amount of loss, either may demand an appraisal of the loss. In this event, you and we will each choose a competent and impartial appraiser within 20 days after receiving a written request from the other. The two appraisers will choose an umpire. If they cannot agree upon an umpire within 15 days, you or we may request that the choice be made by a judge of a court of record in the state where the insured property is located. The appraisers will separately state the actual cash value and the amount of loss to each item. If the appraisers submit a written report of an agreement to us, the amount agreed upon will be the amount of loss. If they fail to agree, they will submit their differences to the umpire. A decision agreed to by any two will set the amount of actual cash value and loss.

Each party will:

1. Pay its own appraiser; and

2. Bear the other expenses of the appraisal and umpire equally.

1. The word "mortgagee" includes trustee.

2. Any loss payable under Coverage A-Building Property will be paid to any mortgagee of whom we have actual notice, as well as any other mortgagee or loss payee determined to exist at the time of loss, and you, as interests appear. If more than one mortgagee is named, the order of payment will be the same as the order of precedence of the mortgages.

3. If we deny your claim, that denial will not apply to a valid claim of the mortgagee, if the mortgagee:

a. Notifies us of any change in the ownership or occupancy, or substantial change in risk of which the mortgagee is aware;

b. Pays any premium due under this policy on demand if you have neglected to pay the premium; and

c. Submits a signed, sworn proof of loss within 60 days after receiving notice from us of your failure to do so.

4. All terms of this policy apply to the mortgagee.

5. The mortgagee has the right to receive loss payment even if the mortgagee has started foreclosure or similar action on the building.

6. If we decide to cancel or not renew this policy, it will continue in effect for the benefit of the mortgagee only for 30 days after we notify the mortgagee of the cancellation or non-renewal.

7. If we pay the mortgagee for any loss and deny payment to you, we are subrogated to all the rights of the mortgagee granted under the mortgage on the property. Subrogation will not impair the right of the mortgagee to recover the full amount of the mortgagee's claim.

You may not sue us to recover money under this policy unless you have complied with all the requirements of the policy. If you do sue, you must start the suit within one year of the date of the written denial of all or part of the claim, and you must file the suit in the United States District Court of the district in which the insured property was located at the time of loss. This requirement applies to any claim that you may have under this policy and to any dispute that you may have arising out of the handling of any claim under the policy.

Whenever we make a payment for a loss under this policy, we are subrogated to your right to recover for that loss from any other person. That means that your right to recover for a loss that was partly or totally caused by someone else is automatically transferred to us, to the extent that we have paid you for the loss. We may require you to acknowledge this transfer in writing. After the loss, you may not give up our right to recover this money or do anything that would prevent us from recovering it. If you make any claim against any person who caused your loss and recover any money, you must pay us back first before you may keep any of that money.

1. If an insured building has been flooded by rising lake waters continuously for 90 days or more and it appears reasonably certain that a continuation of this flooding will result in an insured loss to the insured building equal to or greater than the building policy limits plus the deductible or the maximum payable under the policy for any one building loss, we will pay you the lesser of these two amounts without waiting for the further damage to occur if you sign a release agreeing:

a. To make no further claim under this policy;

b. Not to seek renewal of this policy;

c. Not to apply for any flood insurance under the Act for property at the described location;

d. Not to seek a premium refund for current or prior terms.

If the policy term ends before the insured building has been flooded continuously for 90 days, the provisions of this paragraph Q.1 will apply when the insured building suffers a covered loss before the policy term ends.

2. If your insured building is subject to continuous lake flooding from a closed basin lake, you may elect to file a claim under either paragraph Q.1 above or Q.2 (A "closed basin lake" is a natural lake from which water leaves primarily through evaporation and whose surface area now exceeds or has exceeded one square mile at any time in the recorded past. Most of the nation's closed basin lakes are in the western half of the United States where annual evaporation exceeds annual precipitation and where lake levels and surface areas are subject to considerable fluctuation due to wide variations in the climate. These lakes may overtop their basins on rare occasions.) Under this paragraph Q.2, we will pay your claim as if the building is a total loss even though it has not been continuously inundated for 90 days, subject to the following conditions:

a. Lake floodwaters must damage or imminently threaten to damage your building.

b. Before approval of your claim, you must:

(1) Agree to a claim payment that reflects your buying back the salvage on a negotiated basis; and

(2) Grant the conservation easement described in FEMA's "Policy Guidance for Closed Basin Lakes" to be recorded in the office of the local recorder of deeds. FEMA, in consultation with the community in which the property is located, will identify on a map an area or areas of special consideration (ASC) in which there is a potential for flood damage from continuous lake flooding. FEMA will give the community the agreed-upon map showing the ASC. This easement will only apply to that portion of the property in the ASC. It will allow certain agricultural and recreational uses of the land. The only structures it will allow on any portion of the property within the ASC are certain simple agricultural and recreational structures. If any of these allowable structures are insurable buildings under the NFIP and are insured under the NFIP, they will not be eligible for the benefits of this paragraph Q.2. If a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers certified flood control project or otherwise certified flood control project later protects the property, FEMA will, upon request, amend the ASC to remove areas protected by those projects. The restrictions of the easement will then no longer apply to any portion of the property removed from the ASC; and

(3) Comply with paragraphs Q.1.a through Q.1.d above.

c. Within 90 days of approval of your claim, you must move your building to a new location outside the ASC. FEMA will give you an additional 30 days to move if you show there is sufficient reason to extend the time.

d. Before the final payment of your claim, you must acquire an elevation certificate and a floodplain development permit from the local floodplain administrator for the new location of your building.

e. Before the approval of your claim, the community having jurisdiction over your building must:

(1) Adopt a permanent land use ordinance, or a temporary moratorium for a period not to exceed 6 months to be followed immediately by a permanent land use ordinance that is consistent with the provisions specified in the easement required in paragraph Q.2.b above;

(2) Agree to declare and report any violations of this ordinance to FEMA so that under Section 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, flood insurance to the building can be denied; and

(3) Agree to maintain as deed-restricted, for purposes compatible with open space or agricultural or recreational use only, any affected property the community acquires an interest in. These deed restrictions must be consistent with the provisions of paragraph Q.2.b above, except that, even if a certified project protects the property, the land use restrictions continue to apply if the property was acquired under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program or the Flood Mitigation Assistance Program. If a non-profit land trust organization receives the property as a donation, that organization must maintain the property as deed-restricted, consistent with the provisions of paragraph Q2.b. above.

f. Before the approval of your claim, the affected State must take all action set forth in FEMA's "Policy Guidance for Closed Basin Lakes."

g. You must have NFIP flood insurance coverage continuously in effect from a date established by FEMA until you file a claim under paragraph Q.2. If a subsequent owner buys NFIP insurance that goes into effect within 60 days of the date of transfer of title, any gap in coverage during that 60-day period will not be a violation of this continuous coverage requirement. For the purpose of honoring a claim under this paragraph Q.2, we will not consider to be in effect any increased coverage that became effective after the date established by FEMA. The exception to this is any increased coverage in the amount suggested by your insurer as an inflation adjustment.

h. This paragraph Q.2 will be in effect for a community when the FEMA Regional Administrator for the affected region provides to the community, in writing, the following:

(1) Confirmation that the community and the State are in compliance with the conditions in paragraphs Q.2.e and Q.2.f above; and

(2) The date by which you must have flood insurance in effect.

We will pay the least of the following amounts after application of the deductible:

1. The applicable amount of insurance under this policy;

2. The actual cash value; or

3. The amount it would cost to repair or replace the property with material of like kind and quality within a reasonable time after the loss.

1. With respect to all insureds under this policy, this policy is void and has no legal force and effect if at any time, before or after a loss, you or any other insured or your agent have, with respect to this policy or any other NFIP insurance:

a. Concealed or misrepresented any material fact or circumstance;

b. Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or

c. Made false statements.

2. Policies voided under A.1 cannot be renewed or replaced by a new NFIP policy.

3. Policies are void as of the date the acts described in A.1 above were committed.

4. Fines, civil penalties, and imprisonment under applicable Federal laws may also apply to the acts of fraud or concealment described above.

1. This policy is void from its inception, and has no legal force or effect, if:

a. The property listed on the application is located in a community that was not participating in the NFIP on this policy's inception date and did not join or reenter the program during the policy term and before the loss occurred;

b. The property listed on the application is otherwise not eligible for coverage under the NFIP at the time of the initial application;

c. You never had an insurable interest in the property listed on the application;

d. You provided an agent with an application and payment, but the payment did not clear; or

e. We receive notice from you, prior to the policy effective date, that you have determined not to take the policy and you are not subject to a requirement to obtain and maintain flood insurance pursuant to any statute, regulation, or contract.

2. In such cases, you will be entitled to a full refund of all premium, fees, and surcharges received. However, if a claim was paid for a policy that is void, the claim payment must be returned to FEMA or offset from the premiums to be refunded before the refund will be processed.

1. You may cancel this policy in accordance with the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

2. If you cancel this policy, you may be entitled to a full or partial refund of premium, surcharges, or fees under the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

1. Cancellation for Underpayment of Amounts Owed on Policy. This policy will be cancelled, pursuant to VII.D.2, if it is determined that the premium amount you paid is not sufficient to buy any amount of coverage, and you do not pay the additional amount of premium owed to increase the coverage to the originally requested amount within the required time period.

2. Cancellation Due to Lack of an Insurable Interest.

a. If you no longer have an insurable interest in the insured property, we will cancel this policy. You will cease to have an insurable interest if:

(1) For building coverage, the building was sold, destroyed, or removed.

(2) For contents coverage, the contents were sold or transferred ownership, or the contents were completely removed from the described location.

b. If your policy is cancelled for this reason, you may be entitled to a partial refund of premium under the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

3. Cancellation of Duplicate Policies.

a. Your property may not be insured by more than one NFIP policy, and payment for damages to your property will only be made under one policy.

b. If the property is insured by more than one NFIP policy, we will cancel all but one of the policies. The policy, or policies, will be selected for cancellation in accordance with 44 CFR 62.5 and the applicable rules and guidance of the NFIP.

c. If this policy is cancelled pursuant to VIII.D.3.b, you may be entitled to a full or partial refund of premium, surcharges, or fees under the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

4. Cancellation Due to Physical Alteration of Property

a. If the insured building has been physically altered in such a manner that it is no longer eligible for flood insurance coverage, we will cancel this policy.

b. If your policy is cancelled for this reason, you may be entitled to a partial refund of premium under the terms and conditions of this policy and the applicable rules and regulations of the NFIP.

Your policy will not be renewed if:

1. The community where your insured property is located is suspended or stops participating in the NFIP;

2. Your building is otherwise ineligible for flood insurance under the Act;

3. You have failed to provide the information we requested for the purpose of rating the policy within the required deadline.

If we make a change that broadens your coverage under this edition of our policy, but does not require any additional premium, then that change will automatically apply to your insurance as of the date we implement the change, provided that this implementation date falls within 60 days before or during the policy term stated on the Declarations Page.
