
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 61 - INSURANCE COVERAGE AND RATES
##### Appendix A(3) to Part 61
###### e.g.,

f. Any code upgrade requirements,plumbing or electrical wiring, not specifically related to the State or local floodplain management law or ordinance.

g. Any compliance activities needed to bring additions or improvements made after the loss occurred into compliance with State or local floodplain management laws or ordinances.

h. Loss due to any ordinance or law that you were required to comply with before the current loss.

i. Any rebuilding activity to standards that do not meet the NFIP's minimum requirements. This includes any situation where the insured has received from the State or community a variance in connection with the current flood loss to rebuild the property to an elevation below the base flood elevation.

j. Increased Cost of Compliance for a garage or carport.

k. Any building insured under an NFIP Group Flood Insurance Policy.

l. Assessments made by a condominium association on individual condominium unit owners to pay increased costs of repairing commonly owned buildings after a flood in compliance with State or local floodplain management ordinances or laws.

a. Increased Cost of Compliance coverage will not be included in the calculation to determine whether coverage meets the coinsurance requirement for replacement cost coverage under Art. VIII.R. ("Loss Settlement").

b. All other conditions and provisions of this policy apply.

We do not insure any of the following:

1. Personal property not inside a building.

2. A building, and personal property in it, located entirely in, on, or over water or seaward of mean high tide if it was constructed or substantially improved after September 30, 1982.

3. Open structures, including a building used as a boathouse or any structure or building into which boats are floated, and personal property located in, on, or over water.

4. Recreational vehicles other than travel trailers described in the Definitions section (see II.C.6.c) whether affixed to a permanent foundation or on wheels.

5. Self-propelled vehicles or machines, including their parts and equipment. However, we do cover self-propelled vehicles or machines not licensed for use on public roads that are:

a. Used mainly to service the described location; or

b. Designed and used to assist handicapped persons, while the vehicles or machines are inside a building at the described location.

6. Land, land values, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, growing crops, or animals.

7. Accounts, bills, coins, currency, deeds, evidences of debt, medals, money, scrip, stored value cards, postage stamps, securities, bullion, manuscripts, or other valuable papers.

8. Underground structures and equipment, including wells, septic tanks, and septic systems.

9. Those portions of walks, walkways, decks, driveways, patios, and other surfaces, all whether protected by a roof or not, located outside the perimeter, exterior walls of the insured building.

10. Containers, including related equipment, such as, but not limited to, tanks containing gases or liquids.

11. Buildings and all their contents if more than 49 percent of the actual cash value of the building is below ground, unless the lowest level is at or above the base flood elevation and is below ground by reason of earth having been used as insulation material in conjunction with energy efficient building techniques.

12. Fences, retaining walls, seawalls, bulkheads, wharves, piers, bridges, and docks.

13. Aircraft or watercraft, or their furnishings and equipment.

14. Hot tubs and spas that are not bathroom fixtures, and swimming pools, and their equipment such as, but not limited to, heaters, filters, pumps, and pipes, wherever located.

15. Property not eligible for flood insurance pursuant to the provisions of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act and the Coastal Barrier Improvements Act of 1990 and amendments to these Acts.

16. Personal property used in connection with any incidental commercial occupancy or use of the building.

A. We only pay for "direct physical loss by or from flood," which means that we do not pay you for:

1. Loss of revenue or profits;

2. Loss of access to the insured property or described location;

3. Loss of use of the insured property or described location;

4. Loss from interruption of business or production;

5. Any additional living expenses incurred while the insured building is being repaired or is unable to be occupied for any reason;

6. The cost of complying with any ordinance or law requiring or regulating the construction, demolition, remodeling, renovation, or repair of property, including removal of any resulting debris. This exclusion does not apply to any eligible activities we describe in Coverage D-Increased Cost of Compliance; or

7. Any other economic loss you suffer.
