
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 62 - SALE OF INSURANCE AND ADJUSTMENT OF CLAIMS
##### Subpart A - Issuance of Policies
###### ยง 62.5 Nullifications, cancellations, and premium refunds.
####### Exceptions.

(2)In the following cases, the policyholder may maintain the policy with the later policy effective date while cancelling the policy with the earlier policy effective date:

(i) The policy with the earlier effective date has expired for more than 30 days. In such cases, the policyholder will receive a refund of a pro rata share of the premium, calculated from the effective date of the policy with the later effective date to the end date of the policy with the earlier effective date, but no more than 5 years prior to the date of cancellation. The policyholder will also receive a refund of all fees and surcharges for any full policy terms during which the insured property is insured by both policies, but no more than 5 years prior to the date of the cancellation request.

(ii) The policy with the earlier policy effective date is a Group Flood Insurance Policy. In such cases, there will be no refund of any premium, fees, or surcharges.

(iii) The policy with the earlier effective date is cancelled to establish a common policy expiration date pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. In such cases, refunds will be provided in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(iv) The policy with the earlier effective date was force placed pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4012a using the NFIP's Mortgage Portfolio Protection Program. In such cases, the policyholder will receive a refund of the pro rata share of the premium calculated from the policy effective date of the new policy to the expiration date of the cancelled policy. There will be no refund of any fees or surcharges.

(v) The policy with the earlier effective date is a Dwelling Form policy with building coverage on a condominium unit that is also insured by a Residential Condominium Building Association Policy (RCBAP) that is issued at the statutory maximum coverage limit for buildings. In such cases, the policyholder will receive a refund of a pro rata share of the premium for the building coverage issued under the Dwelling Form policy, as calculated from the effective date of the RCBAP policy to the end date of the Dwelling Form policy. The policyholder will also receive a refund of all fees and surcharges for any full policy terms during which the condominium unit is insured by both a Dwelling Form policy and an RCBAP in which the coverage equals the statutory maximum coverage limits for buildings, but no more than 5 years prior to the date of the cancellation request.
