
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 63 - IMPLEMENTATION OF SECTION 1306(c) OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 63.1 Purpose of part.

The purpose of this part is to implement section 1306(c) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (the Act). Section 544 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 (Pub. L. 100-242) amended the Act by adding subsection (c) to section 1306 of the Act. Under this amendment, effective February 5, 1988, section 1306(c) of the Act provides for benefit payments under the Standard Flood Insurance Policy (SFIP) for demolition or relocation of a structure insured under the Act that is located along the shore of a lake or other body of water and that is certified by an appropriate State or local land use authority to be subject to imminent collapse or subsidence as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels. This part establishes criteria by which States can obtain the approval of the Federal Insurance Administrator to make these certifications and sets forth the procedures and data requirements to be used by those States in making these certifications. This part also contains provisions regarding other aspects of section 1306(c) of the Act. For example, there are provisions regarding section 1306(c)(6)(B) of the Act (which provides for condemnation in lieu of certification), including clarification as to the form of condemnation issued under a State or local law that is required.
