
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 64 - COMMUNITIES ELIGIBLE FOR THE SALE OF INSURANCE
##### § 64.4 Effect on community eligibility resulting from boundary changes, governmental reorganization, etc.

(a) When a community not participating in the Program acquires by means of annexation, incorporation, or otherwise, an area within another community participating in the Program, no new flood insurance shall be made available as of the effective date of annexation until the newly acquiring community participates in the Program. Until the effective date of participation, existing flood insurance policies remain in effect until the policy's date of expiration, but shall not be renewed.

(b) When a community participating in the Program acquires by means of annexation, incorporation, or otherwise, another area which was previously located in a community either participating or not participating in the Program, the community shall have six months from the date of acquisition to formally amend its flood plain management regulations in order to include all flood-prone areas within the newly acquired area. The amended regulations shall satisfy the applicable requirements in § 60.3 of this subchapter based on the data previously provided by the Administrator. In the event that the newly acquired area was previously located in a community participating in the Program, the provisions of this section shall only apply if the community, upon acquisition, and pending formal adoption of the amendment to its flood plain management regulations, certifies in writing over the signature of a community official that within the newly acquired area the flood plain management requirements previously applicable in the area remain in force. In the event that the newly-acquired area was previously located in a community not participating in the Program, the provisions of the section shall only apply if the community, upon acquisition, and pending formal adoption of the amendments to its flood plain management regulations, certifies in writing over the signature of a community official that it shall enforce within the newly-acquired area the requirements of § 60.3(b) of this subchapter. During the six month period, existing flood insurance policies shall remain in effect until their date of expiration may be renewed, and new policies may be issued. Failure to satisfy the applicable requirements in § 60.3 shall result in the community's suspension from Program participation pursuant to § 59.24 of this subchapter.

(c) When an area previously a part of a community participating in the Program becomes autonomous or becomes a portion of a newly autonomous community resulting from boundary changes, governmental reorganization, changes in state statutes or constitution, or otherwise, such new community shall be given six months from the date of its independence, to adopt flood plain management regulations within the special hazard areas subject to its jurisdiction and to submit its application for participation as a separate community in order to retain eligibility for the sale of flood insurance. The regulations adopted by such new community shall satisfy the applicable requirements in § 60.3 of this subchapter based on the data previously provided by the Federal Insurance Administrator. The provisions of this section shall only apply where the new community upon the date of its independence certifies in writing over the signature of a community official that, pending formal adoption of flood plain management regulations, the flood plain management requirements previously applicable in that area remain in effect. During the six month period, existing flood insurance policies shall remain in effect until their dates of expiration may be renewed, and new policies may be issued. Failure to satisfy the applicable requirements in § 60.3 of this subchapter shall result in the community's suspension from Program participation pursuant to § 59.24 of this subchapter.

(d) Where any community or any area within a community had in effect a FHBM or FIRM, but all or a portion of that community has been acquired by another community, or becomes autonomous, that map shall remain in effect until it is superseded by the Federal Insurance Administrator, whether by republication as part of the map of the acquiring community, or otherwise.

(e) When a community described in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section has flood elevations in effect, no new appeal period under parts 66, 67, and 68 of this subchapter will begin except as new scientific and technical data are available.
