
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 65 - IDENTIFICATION AND MAPPING OF SPECIAL HAZARD AREAS
##### ยง 65.7 Floodway revisions.
###### Data requirements when base flood elevation changes are requested.

(b)When a floodway revision is requested in association with a change to base flood elevations, the data requirements of ยง 65.6 shall also be applicable. In addition, the following documentation shall be submitted:

(1) Copy of a public notice distributed by the community stating the community's intent to revise the floodway or a statement by the community that it has notified all affected property owners and affected adjacent jurisdictions.

(2) Copy of a letter notifying the appropriate State agency of the floodway revision when the State has jurisdiction over the floodway or its adoption by communities participating in the NFIP.

(3) Documentation of the approval of the revised floodway by the appropriate State agency (for communities where the State has jurisdiction over the floodway or its adoption by communities participating in the NFIP).

(4) Engineering analysis for the revised floodway, as described below:

(i) The floodway analysis must be performed using the hydraulic computer model used to determine the proposed base flood elevations.

(ii) The floodway limits must be set so that neither the effective base flood elevations nor the proposed base flood elevations if less than the effective base flood elevations, are increased by more than the amount specified under ยง 60.3 (d)(2). Copies of the input and output data from the original and modified computer models must be submitted.

(5) Delineation of the revised floodway on the same topographic map used for the delineation of the revised flood boundaries.
