
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 65 - IDENTIFICATION AND MAPPING OF SPECIAL HAZARD AREAS
##### ยง 65.7 Floodway revisions.
###### Data requirements for changes not associated with base flood elevation changes.

(c)The following data shall be submitted:

(1) Items described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section must be submitted.

(2) Engineering analysis for the revised floodway, as described below:

(i) The original hydraulic computer model used to develop the established base flood elevations must be modified to include all encroachments that have occurred in the flood plain since the existing floodway was developed. If the original hydraulic computer model is not available, an alternate hydraulic computer model may be used provided the alternate model has been calibrated so as to reproduce the original water surface profile of the original hydraulic computer model. The alternate model must be then modified to include all encroachments that have occurred since the existing floodway was developed.

(ii) The floodway analysis must be performed with the modified computer model using the desired floodway limits.

(iii) The floodway limits must be set so that combined effects of the past encroachments and the new floodway limits do not increase the effective base flood elevations by more than the amount specified in ยง 60.3(d)(2). Copies of the input and output data from the original and modified computer models must be submitted.

(3) Delineation of the revised floodway on a copy of the effective NFIP map and a suitable topographic map.
