
# Title 44 - Emergency Management and Assistance
## Chapter I - Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Insurance and Hazard Mitigation
#### PART 65 - IDENTIFICATION AND MAPPING OF SPECIAL HAZARD AREAS
##### ยง 65.14 Remapping of areas for which local flood protection systems no longer provide base flood protection.
###### Limitations.

(b)A community may have a flood control restoration zone designation only once while restoring a flood protection system. This limitation does not preclude future flood control restoration zone designations should a fully restored, certified, and accredited system become decertified for a second or subsequent time.

(1) A community that receives Federal funds for the purpose of designing or constructing, or both, the restoration project must complete restoration or meet the requirements of 44 CFR 61.12 within a specified period, not to exceed a maximum of 10 years from the date of submittal of the community's application for designation of a flood control restoration zone.

(2) A community that does not receive Federal funds for the purpose of constructing the restoration project must complete restoration within a specified period, not to exceed a maximum of 5 years from the date of submittal of the community's application for designation of a flood control restoration zone. Such a community is not eligible for the provisions of ยง 61.12. The designated restoration period may not be extended beyond the maximum allowable under this limitation.
