
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 303 - RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE TEXTILE FIBER PRODUCTS IDENTIFICATION ACT
##### ยง 303.9 Use of fur-bearing animal names and symbols prohibited.

(a) The advertising or the labeling of a textile fiber product shall not contain any names, words, depictions, descriptive matter, or other symbols which connote or signify a fur-bearing animal, unless such product or the part thereof in connection with which the names, words, depictions, descriptive matter, or other symbols are used is a fur product within the meaning of the Fur Products Labeling Act.

(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section and ยง 303.6 of this part, a textile fiber product shall not be described or referred to in any manner in an advertisement or label with:

(1) The name or part of the name of a fur-bearing animal, whether as a single word or a combination word, or any coined word which is phonetically similar to a fur-bearing animal name, or which is only a slight variation in spelling of a fur-bearing animal name or part of the name. As for example, such terms as "Ermine," "Mink," "Persian," "Broadtail," "Beaverton," "Marmink," "Sablelon," "Lam," "Pershian," "Minx," or similar terms shall not be used.

(2) Any word or name symbolic of a fur-bearing animal by reason of conventional usage or by reason of its close relationship with fur-bearing animals. As for example, such terms as "guardhair," "underfur," and "mutation," or similar terms, shall not be used.

(c) Nothing contained herein shall prevent:

(1) The nondeceptive use of animal names or symbols in referring to a textile fiber product where the fur of such animal is not commonly or commercially used in fur products, as that term is defined in the Fur Products Labeling Act, as for example "kitten soft", "Bear Brand", etc.

(2) The nondeceptive use of a trademark or trade name containing the name, symbol, or depiction of a fur-bearing animal unless:

(i) The textile fiber product in connection with which such trademark or trade name is used simulates a fur or fur product; or

(ii) Such trademark or trade name is used in any advertisement of a textile fiber product together with any depiction which has the appearance of a fur or fur product; or

(iii) The use of such trademark or trade name is prohibited by the Fur Products Labeling Act.
