
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 303 - RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE TEXTILE FIBER PRODUCTS IDENTIFICATION ACT
##### ยง 303.15 Required label and method of affixing.

(a) A label is required to be affixed to each textile product and, where required, to its package or container in a secure manner. Such label shall be conspicuous and shall be of such durability as to remain attached to the product and its package throughout any distribution, sale, resale and until sold and delivered to the ultimate consumer.

(b) Each textile fiber product with a neck must have a label disclosing the country of origin affixed to the inside center of the neck midway between the shoulder seams or in close proximity to another label affixed to the inside center of the neck. The fiber content and RN or name of the company may be disclosed on the same label as the country of origin or on another conspicuous and readily accessible label or labels on the inside or outside of the garment. On all other textile products, the required information shall be disclosed on a conspicuous and readily accessible label or labels on the inside or outside of the product. The country of origin disclosure must always appear on the front side of the label. Other required information may appear either on the front side or the reverse side of a label, provided that the information is conspicuous and readily accessible.

(c) In the case of hosiery products, this section shall not be construed as requiring the affixing of a label to each hosiery product contained in a package if,

(1) Such hosiery products are intended for sale to the ultimate consumer in such package,

(2) Such package has affixed to it a label bearing the required information for the hosiery products contained in the package, and

(3) The information on the label affixed to the package is equally applicable to each textile fiber product contained therein.
