
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 303 - RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE TEXTILE FIBER PRODUCTS IDENTIFICATION ACT
##### § 303.16 Arrangement and disclosure of information on labels.

(a) Subject to the provisions of § 303.15(b), information required by the Act and regulations in this part may appear on any label or labels attached to the textile fiber product, including the care label required by 16 CFR part 423, provided all the pertinent requirements of the Act and regulations in this part are met and so long as the combination of required information and non-required information is not misleading. The required information shall include the following:

(1) The generic names and percentages by weight of the constituent fibers present in the textile fiber product, excluding permissive ornamentation, in amounts of 5 percent or more and any fibers disclosed in accordance with § 303.3(a) shall appear in order of predominance by weight with any percentage of fiber or fibers required to be designated as "other fiber" or "other fibers" appearing last.

(2) The name, provided for in § 303.19, or registered identification number issued by the Commission, of the manufacturer or of one or more persons marketing or handling the textile fiber product.

(3) The name of the country where such product was processed or manufactured, as provided for in § 303.33.

(b) All parts of the required information shall be set forth in such a manner as to be clearly legible, conspicuous, and readily accessible to the prospective purchaser. All parts of the fiber content information shall appear in type or lettering of equal size and conspicuousness.

(c) Subject to the provisions of § 303.17, any non-required information or representations placed on the product shall not minimize, detract from, or conflict with required information and shall not be false, deceptive, or misleading.

(d) Non-deceptive terms which are properly and truthfully descriptive of a fiber may be used in conjunction with the generic name of such fiber; as for example: "100 percent cross-linked rayon," "100 percent solution dyed acetate," "100 percent combed cotton," "100 percent nylon 66," etc.
