
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 303 - RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE TEXTILE FIBER PRODUCTS IDENTIFICATION ACT
##### ยง 303.33 Country where textile fiber products are processed or manufactured.
###### country

(c) The termmeans the political entity known as a nation. Except for the United States, colonies, possessions or protectorates outside the boundaries of the mother country shall be considered separate countries, and the name thereof shall be deemed acceptable in designating the country where the textile fiber product was processed or manufactured unless the Commission shall otherwise direct.

(d) The country of origin of an imported textile fiber product as determined under the laws and regulations enforced by United States Customs and Border Protection shall be considered to be the country where such textile fiber product was processed or manufactured.

(e) The English name of the country where the imported textile fiber product was processed or manufactured shall be used. The adjectival form of the name of the country will be accepted as the name of the country where the textile fiber product was processed or manufactured, provided the adjectival form of the name does not appear with such other words so as to refer to a kind or species of product. Variant spellings which clearly indicate the English name of the country, such as Brasil for Brazil and Italie for Italy, are acceptable. Abbreviations which unmistakably indicate the name of a country, such as "Gt. Britain" for "Great Britain," are acceptable.

(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting in any way the information required to be disclosed on labels under the provisions of any Tariff Act of the United States or regulations promulgated thereunder.
