
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Definitions
###### ยง 305.2 Definitions.
####### Consumer appliance product

(l)means any of the following consumer products, excluding those products designed solely for use in recreational vehicles and other mobile equipment:

(1) Refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers that can be operated by alternating current electricity, excluding-

(i) Any type designed to be used without doors; and

(ii) Any type which does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly.

(2) Dishwashers.

(3) Water heaters.

(4) Room air conditioners.

(5) Clothes washers.

(6) Clothes dryers.

(7) Central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps.

(8) Furnaces.

(9) Direct heating equipment.

(10) Pool heaters.

(11) Kitchen ranges and ovens.

(12) Television sets.

(13) Fluorescent lamp ballasts.

(14) General service fluorescent lamps.

(15) Medium base compact fluorescent lamps.

(16) General service incandescent lamps, including incandescent reflector lamps.

(17) Showerheads.

(18) Faucets.

(19) Water closets.

(20) Urinals.

(21) Metal halide lamp fixtures.

(22) Ceiling fans.

(23) Portable air conditioners.

(24) Any other type of consumer product that the Department of Energy classifies as a covered product under section 322(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 6292).
