
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Testing
###### ยง 305.11 Submission of data.
####### https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms

(5) Manufacturers must submit a website address for the online EnergyGuide labels covered by ยง 305.9 in new model and annual reports required by this section. Manufacturers may accomplish this by either submitting a specific link to a URL for each label, a link to a PDF download for each label, or a link to a website that takes users directly to a searchable database of the covered labels from which the label image or download may be accessed using the model number as certified to DOE pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 and the model number advertised in product literature. Such label information must be submitted either at the time the model is certified to DOE pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 or at some time on or before the annual report date immediately following such certification. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the CCMS atas provided by 10 CFR 429.12. The requirements in this paragraph do not apply to Lighting Facts labels.

(b)(1) All data required by paragraph (a) of this section except serial numbers shall be submitted to the Commission annually, on or before the following dates:

(2) All revisions to such data (both additions to and deletions from the preceding data) shall be submitted to the Commission as part of the next annual report period.

(c) All information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section must be submitted for new models prior to any distribution of such model. Models subject to design or retrofit alterations which change the data contained in any annual report shall be reported in the manner required for new models. Models which are discontinued shall be reported in the next annual report.
