
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Testing
###### ยง 305.14 Label content for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers.
####### Label content.

(a)(1) Headlines and texts, as illustrated in the prototype and sample labels in appendix L to this part, are standard for all labels.

(2) Name of manufacturer or private labeler shall, in the case of a corporation, be deemed to be satisfied only by the actual corporate name, which may be preceded or followed by the name of the particular division of the corporation. In the case of an individual, partnership, or association, the name under which the business is conducted shall be used. Inclusion of the name of the manufacturer or private labeler is optional at the discretion of the manufacturer or private labeler.

(3) Model number(s) will be the designation given by the manufacturer or private labeler.

(4) Capacity or size is that determined in accordance with this part. The capacity provided on the label shall be the model's total refrigerated volume (VT) as determined in accordance with this part and the model description must be consistent with the categories described in Appendices A and B to this part.

(5) Unless otherwise indicated in this paragraph, estimated annual operating costs must be determined in accordance with this part. Labels for dual-mode refrigerator-freezers that can operate as either a refrigerator or a freezer must reflect the estimated energy cost of the model's most energy intensive configuration.

(6) Unless otherwise indicated in this paragraph, ranges of comparability for estimated annual operating costs are found in the appropriate appendices accompanying this part.

(7) Placement of the labeled product on the scale shall be proportionate to the lowest and highest estimated annual operating costs.

(8) Labels must contain the model's estimated annual energy consumption as determined in accordance with this part and as indicated on the sample labels in appendix L.

(9) Labels must contain statements as illustrated in the prototype labels in appendix L and specified as follows by product type:

(i) Labels for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers shall contain the text and graphics illustrated in sample labels of appendix L, including the statement:

Compare ONLY to other labels with yellow numbers.

Labels with yellow numbers are based on the same test procedures.

(ii) Labels for refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers must contain a statement as illustrated in the prototype labels in appendix L and specified as follows (fill in the blanks with the appropriate energy cost figure):

(iii) Labels for refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers shall include the following as part of the statement required by paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section:

(A) For models covered under appendix A1 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(B) For models covered under appendix A2 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(C) For models covered under appendix A3 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(D) For models covered under appendix A4 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(E) For models covered under appendix A5 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(F) For models covered under appendix A6 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(G) For models covered under appendix A7 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(H) For models covered under appendix A8 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(iv) Labels for freezers must contain a statement as illustrated in the prototype labels in appendix L and specified as follows (fill in the blanks with the appropriate energy cost figure):

(v) For freezers, the following sentence shall be included as part of the statement required by paragraph (a)(9)(iv) of this section:

(A) For models covered under appendix B1 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(B) For models covered under appendix B2 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(C) For models covered under appendix B3 to this part, the sentence shall read:

(10) The following statement shall appear on each label as illustrated in the prototype and sample labels in appendix L to this part:
