
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Required Disclosures
###### ยง 305.20 Labeling for central air conditioners, heat pumps, and furnaces.
####### Placement.

(e)(1) Manufacturers shall affix adhesive labels to the covered products in such a position that they are easily read by persons examining the products. The labels should be generally located on the upper-right-front corner of each product's front exterior. However, other prominent locations may be used as long as labels will not become dislodged during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to retailers or consumers. Tops of the labels should not exceed 74 inches from the base of taller products. Labels can be displayed in the form of a flap tag adhered to the top of the appliance and bent (folded at 90&#xB0;) to hang over the front, as long as this can be done with assurance that it will be readily visible. Labels for split-system central air conditioners should be affixed to the condensing unit.

(2) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (e)(1), for split-system and single-package central air conditioners, and all non-weatherized and mobile home furnaces manufactured on or after the compliance date of regional efficiency standards issued by the Department of Energy for those products in 10 CFR part 430, manufacturers shall affix labels to covered product packages or the products themselves in positions that allow persons examining the packaged products to read the labels easily. Labels on packaging must be affixed via adhesive or another means sufficient to prevent their dislodgment during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to the retailer or consumer. Labels for split-system central air conditioners should be affixed to condensing units' packages or condensing units consistent with this paragraph.
