
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Required Disclosures
###### ยง 305.23 Labeling for lighting products.
####### Package labeling.

(3)For purposes of labeling under this section, packaging for such fluorescent lamp ballasts and the luminaires into which they are incorporated consists of the plastic sheeting, or "shrink-wrap," covering pallet loads of fluorescent lamp ballasts or luminaires as well as any containers in which such fluorescent lamp ballasts or the luminaires into which they are incorporated are marketed individually or in small numbers. The encircled capital letter "E" on packages containing fluorescent lamp ballasts or the luminaires into which they are incorporated must appear conspicuously, in color-contrasting ink, on the surface of the package on which printing or a label normally appears. If the package contains printing on more than one surface, the label must appear on the surface on which the product inside the package is described. The encircled capital letter "E" may be printed on the surface of the package, printed on a label containing other information, printed on a separate label, or indelibly stamped on the surface of the package. In the case of pallet loads containing fluorescent lamp ballasts or the luminaires into which they are incorporated, the encircled capital letter "E" must appear conspicuously, in color-contrasting ink, on the plastic sheeting, unless clear plastic sheeting is used and the encircled capital letter "E" is legible underneath this packaging. The encircled capital letter "E" must also appear conspicuously on any documentation that would normally accompany such a pallet load. The encircled capital letter "E" may appear on a label affixed to the sheeting or may be indelibly stamped on the sheeting. It may be printed on the documentation, printed on a separate label that is affixed to the documentation or indelibly stamped on the documentation.
