
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Required Disclosures
###### ยง 305.23 Labeling for lighting products.
####### Bilingual labels.

(4)The information required by paragraph (c) of this section may be presented in a second language either by using separate labels for each language or in a bilingual label with the English text in the format required by this section immediately followed by the text in the second language. All required information must be included in both languages. Numeric characters that are identical in both languages need not be repeated.

(d) For lamps that do not meet the definition of general service lamp or specialty consumer lamp, manufacturers and private labelers have the discretion to label with the Lighting Facts label as long as they comply with all requirements applicable to specialty consumer lamps in this part.

(e)(1) Any covered incandescent lamp that is subject to and does not comply with the January 1, 2012 or January 1, 2013 efficiency standards specified in 42 U.S.C. 6295 or the DOE standards at 10 CFR 430.32(n)(5) effective July 14, 2012 shall be labeled clearly and conspicuously on the principal display panel of the product package with the following information in lieu of the labeling requirements specified in paragraph (b):

(2) The light output, energy usage and life ratings of any product covered by paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall appear in that order and with equal clarity and conspicuousness on the product's principal display panel. The light output, energy usage and life ratings shall be disclosed in terms of "lumens," "watts," and "hours" respectively, with the lumens, watts, and hours rating numbers each appearing in the same type style and size and with the words "lumens," "watts," and "hours" each appearing in the same type style and size. The words "light output," "energy used," and "life" shall precede and have the same conspicuousness as both the rating numbers and the words "lumens," "watts," and "hours," except that the letters of the words "lumens," "watts," and "hours" shall be approximately 50% of the sizes of those used for the words "light output," "energy used," and "life," respectively.

(f)(1) The required disclosures of any covered product that is a general service lamp or specialty consumer lamp shall be measured at 120 volts, regardless of the lamp's design voltage. If a lamp's design voltage is 125 volts or 130 volts, the disclosures of the wattage, light output, energy cost, and life ratings shall in each instance be:
