
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Required Disclosures
###### ยง 305.24 Labeling and marking for plumbing products.
####### Showerheads and faucets.

(a)Showerheads and faucets shall be marked and labeled as follows:

(1) Each showerhead and flow restricting or controlling spout end device shall bear a permanent legible marking indicating the flow rate, expressed in gallons per minute (gpm) or gallons per cycle (gpc), and the flow rate value shall be the actual flow rate or the maximum flow rate specified by the standards established in subsection (j) of section 325 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6295(j). Except where impractical due to the size of the fitting, each flow rate disclosure shall also be given in liters per minute (L/min) or liters per cycle (L/cycle). For purposes of this section, the marking indicating the flow rate will be deemed "legible," in terms of placement, if it is located in close proximity to the manufacturer's identification marking.

(2) Each showerhead and faucet shall bear a permanent legible marking to identify the manufacturer. This marking shall be the trade name, trademark, or other mark known to identify the manufacturer. Such marking shall be located where it can be seen after installation.

(3) The package for each showerhead and faucet shall disclose the manufacturer's name and the model number.

(4) The package or any label attached to the package for each showerhead or faucet shall contain at least the following: The flow rate expressed in gallons per minute (gpm) or gallons per cycle (gpc), and the flow rate value shall be the actual flow rate or the maximum flow rate specified by the standards established in subsection (j) of section 325 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6295(j). Each flow rate disclosure shall also be given in liters per minute (L/min) or liters per cycle (L/cycle).
