
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Required Disclosures
###### ยง 305.24 Labeling and marking for plumbing products.
####### Water closets and urinals.

(b)Water closets and urinals shall be marked and labeled as follows:

(1) Each such fixture (and flushometer valve associated with such fixture) shall bear a permanent legible marking indicating the flow rate, expressed in gallons per flush (gpf), and the water use value shall be the actual water use or the maximum water use specified by the standards established in subsection (k) of section 325 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6295(k). Except where impractical due to the size of the fixture, each flow rate disclosure shall also be given in liters per flush (Lpf). For purposes of this section, the marking indicating the flow rate will be deemed "legible," in terms of placement, if it is located in close proximity to the manufacturer's identification marking.

(2) Each water closet (and each component of the water closet if the fixture is comprised of two or more components) and urinal shall be marked with the manufacturer's name or trademark or, in the case of private labeling, the name or registered trademark of the customer for whom the unit was manufactured. This mark shall be legible, readily identified, and applied so as to be permanent. The mark shall be located so as to be visible after the fixture is installed, except for fixtures built into or for a counter or cabinet.

(3) The package, and any labeling attached to the package, for each water closet and urinal shall disclose the flow rate, expressed in gallons per flush (gpf), and the water use value shall be the actual water use or the maximum water use specified by the standards established in subsection (k) of section 325 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6295(k). Each flow rate disclosure shall also be given in liters per flush (Lpf).
