
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 305 - ENERGY AND WATER USE LABELING FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS UNDER THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT ("ENERGY LABELING RULE")
##### Required Disclosures
###### ยง 305.25 Television labeling.
####### Label content.

(f)The television label shall contain the following information:

(1) Headlines, texts, and statements as illustrated in the prototype and sample labels in appendix L to this part.

(2) Name of manufacturer or private labeler. This requirement shall, in the case of a corporation, be satisfied only by the actual corporate name, which may be preceded or followed by the name of a particular division of the corporation. In the case of an individual, partnership, or association, the name under which the business is conducted shall be used.

(3) Model number(s) as designated by the manufacturer or private labeler.

(4) Estimated annual energy costs determined in accordance with this part and based on a usage rate of 5 hours in on mode and 19 hours in standby (sleep) mode per day and an electricity cost rate of 12 cents per kWh.

(5) The applicable ranges of comparability for estimated annual energy costs based on the labeled product's diagonal screen size, according to the following table:

(6) Placement of the labeled product on the scale proportionate to the lowest and highest estimated annual energy costs as illustrated in Prototype and Sample Labels in appendix L. When the estimated annual energy cost of a given television model falls outside the limits of the current range for that product, the manufacturer shall place the product at the end of the range closest to the model's energy cost.

(7) The model's estimated annual energy consumption as determined in accordance with this part and based on a usage rate of 5 hours in on mode and 19 hours in sleep (standby) mode per day.

(8) No marks or information other than that specified in this part shall appear on or directly adjoining this label except that:

(i) A manufacturer may include a part or publication number identification on the label, as long as it appears in the lower right-hand corner of the label and is set in 6-point type or smaller.

(ii) The manufacturer may include the ENERGY STAR logo on the label as illustrated in Sample Labels in appendix L. The logo must be 0.375&#x2033; wide. Only manufacturers that have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Energy or the Environmental Protection Agency covering the televisions to be labeled may add the ENERGY STAR logo to those labels.
