
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 306 - AUTOMOTIVE FUEL RATINGS, CERTIFICATION AND POSTING
##### Label Specifications
###### ยง 306.12 Labels.
####### For alternative liquid automotive fuel labels (one principal component), other than biodiesel, biomass-based diesel, biodiesel blends, or biomass-based diesel blends.

(2)The label is 3 inches (7.62 cm) wide x 2inches (6.35 cm) long. "Helvetica Black" or equivalent type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains the name of the fuel. This band should measure 1 inch (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the fuel name isinch (.64 cm) from the top of the label andinch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. The first line of type beneath the black band isinch (.32 cm) from the bottom of the black band. All type below the black band is centered horizontally, withinch (.32 cm) between each line. The bottom line of type isinch (.48 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer thaninch (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label. If you wish to change the dimensions of this one principal component label to accommodate a fuel descriptor that is longer than shown in the sample labels, you must petition the Federal Trade Commission. You must state the size and contents of the label that you wish to use, and the reasons that you want to use it. Petitions for exemptions will be handled pursuant to the procedures prescribed in ยง 1.31 of this chapter.
