
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 308 - TRADE REGULATION RULE PURSUANT TO THE TELEPHONE DISCLOSURE AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION ACT OF 1992
##### § 308.3 Advertising of pay-per-call services.
###### Cost of the call.

(b)(1) The provider of pay-per-call services shall clearly and conspicuously disclose the cost of the call, in Arabic numerals, in any advertisement for the pay-per-call service, as follows:

(i) If there is a flat fee for the call, the advertisement shall state the total cost of the call.

(ii) If the call is billed on a time-sensitive basis, the advertisement shall state the cost per minute and any minimum charges. If the length of the program can be determined in advance, the advertisement shall also state the maximum charge that could be incurred if the caller listens to the complete program.

(iii) If the call is billed on a variable rate basis, the advertisement shall state, in accordance with §§ 308.3(b)(1) (i) and (ii), the cost of the initial portion of the call, any minimum charges, and the range of rates that may be charged depending on the options chosen by the caller.

(iv) The advertisement shall disclose any other fees that will be charged for the service.

(v) if the caller may be transferred to another pay-per-call service, the advertisement shall disclose the cost of the other call, in accordance with §§ 308.3(b)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv).

(2) For purposes of § 308.3(b), disclosures shall be made "clearly and conspicuously" as set forth in § 308.3(a) and as follows:
