
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 308 - TRADE REGULATION RULE PURSUANT TO THE TELEPHONE DISCLOSURE AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION ACT OF 1992
##### ยง 308.3 Advertising of pay-per-call services.
###### Federal programs.

(d)(1) The provider of pay-per-call services that advertises a pay-per-call service that is not operated or expressly authorized by a Federal agency, but that provides information on a Federal program, shall clearly and conspicuously disclose in the advertisement that the pay-per-call service is not authorized, endorsed, or approved by any Federal agency. Advertisements providing information on a Federal program shall include, but not be limited to, advertisements that contain a seal, insignia, trade or brand name, or any other term or symbol that reasonably could be interpreted or construed as implying any Federal government connection, approval, or endorsement.

(2) For purposes of ยง 308.3(d), disclosures shall be made "clearly and conspicuously" as set forth in ยง 308.3(a) and as follows:

(i) In a television or videotape advertisement, the disclosure may be made in either the audio or video portion of the advertisement. If the disclosure is made in the video portion, it shall appear on the screen in sufficient size and for sufficient time to allow consumers to read and comprehend the disclosure. The disclosure shall begin within the first fifteen (15) seconds of the advertisement.

(ii) In a print advertisement, the disclosure shall appear in a sufficient size and prominence and such location to be readily noticeable, readable and comprehensible. The disclosure shall appear in the top one-third of the advertisement.

(iii) In a radio advertisement, the disclosure shall begin within the first fifteen (15) seconds of the advertisement.
