
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 309 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND ALTERNATIVE FUELED VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Alternative Fuels
###### Duties of Importers, Producers, and Refiners of Non-Liquid Alternative Vehicle Fuels (Other Than Electricity) and of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicle Fuel Dispensing Systems
####### ยง 309.11 Certification.

(a) For non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), in each transfer you make to anyone who is not a consumer, you must certify the fuel rating of the non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) consistent with your determination. You can do this in either of two ways:

(1) Include a delivery ticket or other paper with each transfer of non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity). It may be an invoice, bill of lading, bill of sale, terminal ticket, delivery ticket, or any other written proof of transfer. It must contain at least these four items:

(i) Your name;

(ii) The name of the person to whom the non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) is transferred;

(iii) The date of the transfer; and

(iv) The fuel rating.

(2) Give the person a letter or written statement. This letter must include the date, your name, the other person's name, and the fuel rating of any non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) you will transfer to that person from the date of the letter onwards. This letter of certification will be good until you transfer non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) with a lower percentage of the principal component, or of any other component disclosed in the certification. When this happens, you must certify the fuel rating of the new non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) either with a delivery ticket or by sending a new letter of certification.

(b) For electric vehicle fuel dispensing systems, in each transfer you make to anyone who is not a consumer, you must certify the fuel rating of the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system consistent with your determination. You can do this in either of two ways:

(1) Include a delivery ticket or other paper with each transfer of an electric vehicle fuel dispensing system. It may be an invoice, bill of lading, bill of sale, delivery ticket, or any other written proof of transfer. It must contain at least these five items:

(i) Your name;

(ii) The name of the person to whom the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system is transferred;

(iii) The date of the transfer;

(iv) The model number, serial number, or other identifier of the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system; and

(v) The fuel rating.

(2) Make the required certification by placing clearly and conspicuously on the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system a permanent legible marking or permanently attached label that discloses the manufacturer's name, the model number, serial number, or other identifier of the system, and the fuel rating. Such marking or label must be located where it can be seen after installation of the system. The marking or label will be deemed "legible," in terms of placement, if it is located in close proximity to the manufacturer's identification marking. This marking or label must be in addition to, and not a substitute for, the label required to be posted on the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system by the retailer.

(c) When you transfer non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), or an electric vehicle fuel dispensing system, to a common carrier, you must certify the fuel rating of the non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) or electric vehicle fuel dispensing system to the common carrier, either by letter or on the delivery ticket or other paper, or by a permanent marking or label attached to the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system by the manufacturer.
