
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 309 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND ALTERNATIVE FUELED VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Alternative Fuels
###### Duties of Distributors of Non-Liquid Alternative Vehicle Fuels (Other Than Electricity) and of Electric Vehicle Fuel Dispensing Systems
####### § 309.13 Certification.

(a) If you are a distributor of non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), you must certify the fuel rating of the fuel in each transfer you make to anyone who is not a consumer. You may certify either by using a delivery ticket or other paper with each transfer of fuel, as outlined in § 309.11(a)(1), or by using a letter of certification, as outlined in § 309.11(a)(2).

(b) If you are a distributor of electric vehicle fuel dispensing systems, you must certify the fuel rating of the system in each transfer you make to anyone who is not a consumer. You may certify by using a delivery ticket or other paper with each transfer, as outlined in § 309.11(b)(1), or by using the permanent marking or permanent label attached to the system by the manufacturer, as outlined in § 309.11(b)(2).

(c) If you do not blend non-liquid alternative vehicle fuels (other than electricity), you must certify consistent with the fuel rating certified to you. If you blend non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), you must possess a reasonable basis, consisting of competent and reliable evidence, as required by § 309.10(a), for the fuel rating that you certify for the blend.

(d) When you transfer non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), or an electric vehicle fuel dispensing system, to a common carrier, you must certify the fuel rating of the non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) or electric vehicle fuel dispensing system to the common carrier, either by letter or on the delivery ticket or other paper, or by a permanent marking or label attached to the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system by the manufacturer. When you receive non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), or an electric vehicle fuel dispensing system, from a common carrier, you also must receive from the common carrier a certification of the fuel rating of the non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) or electric vehicle fuel dispensing system, either by letter or on the delivery ticket or other paper, or by a permanent marking or label attached to the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system by the manufacturer.
