
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 309 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND ALTERNATIVE FUELED VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Alternative Fuels
###### Duties of Retailers
####### ยง 309.15 Posting of non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel rating.

(a) If you are a retailer who offers for sale or sells non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) to consumers, you must post the fuel rating of each non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel. If you are a retailer who offers for sale or sells electricity to consumers through an electric vehicle fuel dispensing system, you must post the fuel rating of the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system you use. You must do this by putting at least one label on the face of each fuel dispenser through which you sell non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel. If you are selling two or more kinds of non-liquid alternative vehicle fuels with different fuel ratings from a single fuel dispenser, you must put separate labels for each kind of non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel on the face of the fuel dispenser.

(b)(1) The label, or labels, must be placed conspicuously on the fuel dispenser so as to be in full view of consumers and as near as reasonably practical to the price per unit of the non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel.

(2) You may petition for an exemption from the placement requirements by writing the Secretary of the Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580. You must state the reasons that you want the exemption. Petitions for exemptions will be handled pursuant to the procedures prescribed in ยง 1.31 of this chapter.

(c) If you do not blend non-liquid alternative vehicle fuels (other than electricity), you must post consistent with the fuel rating certified to you. If you blend non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), you must possess a reasonable basis, consisting of competent and reliable evidence, as required by ยง 309.10(a), for the fuel rating that you post for the blend.

(d)(1) You must maintain and replace labels as needed to make sure consumers can easily see and read them.

(2) If the labels you have are destroyed or are unusable or unreadable for some unexpected reason, you may satisfy this part by posting a temporary label as much like the required label as possible. You must still get and post the required label without delay.

(e) The following examples of fuel rating disclosures for CNG and hydrogen are meant to serve as illustrations of compliance with this part, but do not limit the rule's coverage to only the mentioned non-liquid alternative vehicle fuels (other than electricity):

(1) "CNG"

(2) "Hydrogen"

(f) The following example of fuel rating disclosures for electric vehicle fuel dispensing systems is meant to serve as an illustration of compliance with this part:

(g) When you receive non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity), or an electric vehicle fuel dispensing system, from a common carrier, you also must receive from the common carrier a certification of the fuel rating of the non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) or electric vehicle fuel dispensing system, either by letter or on the delivery ticket or other paper, or by a permanent marking or label attached to the electric vehicle fuel dispensing system by the manufacturer.
