
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 309 - LABELING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND ALTERNATIVE FUELED VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Alternative Fuels
###### Label Specifications
####### ยง 309.17 Labels.
######## Non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) labels with disclosure of principal component only.

(1)The label is 3&#x2033; (7.62 cm) wide x 2&#x2033; (6.35 cm) long. "Helvetica black" type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains the name of the fuel. This band should measure 1&#x2033; (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the fuel name is&#x2033; (.64 cm) from the top of the label and&#x2033; (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. The first line of type beneath the black band is&#x2033; (.32 cm) from the bottom of the black band. All type below the black band is centered horizontally, with&#x2033; (.32 cm) between lines. The bottom line of type is&#x2033; (.48 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than&#x2033; (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label. If you wish to change the format of this single component label, you must petition the Federal Trade Commission. You must state the size and contents of the label that you wish to use, and the reasons that you want to use it. Petitions for exemptions will be handled pursuant to the procedures prescribed in ยง 1.31 of this chapter.
