
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 0 - ORGANIZATION
##### ยง 0.19 The Regional Offices.

(a) These offices are investigatory and enforcement arms of the Commission, and have responsibility for investigational, trial, compliance, and consumer educational activities as delegated by the Commission. They are under the general supervision of the Bureaus of Competition and Consumer Protection and clear their activities through the appropriate operating Bureau.

(b) The names and geographic areas of responsibility of the respective regional offices are as follows:

(1) Northeast Region (located in New York City, New York), covering Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

(2) Southeast Region (located in Atlanta, Georgia), covering Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee.

(3) East Central Region (located in Cleveland, Ohio), covering Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia.

(4) Midwest Region (located in Chicago, Illinois), covering Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.

(5) Southwest Region (located in Dallas, Texas), covering Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

(6) Northwest Region (located in Seattle, Washington), covering Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming.

(7) Western Region Los Angeles (located in Los Angeles, California), covering Arizona, Hawaii, Southern California, Southern Nevada, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.

(8) Western Region San Francisco (located in San Francisco, California), covering Colorado, Northern California, Northern Nevada, and Utah.

(c) Each of the regional offices is supervised by a Regional Director and an Assistant Regional Director, who are available for conferences with attorneys, consumers, and other members of the public on matters relating to the Commission's activities.
