
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROCEDURES
##### Subpart T - Procedures for Review of Final Civil Sanctions Imposed under the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act
###### ยง 1.146 Review of civil sanction by an Administrative Law Judge.
####### Hearings for which no party contests facts found by the Authority but at least one party or the Commission seeks to supplement the record or for which the Administrative Law Judge determines that supplementation is necessary.

(4)When a party or the Commission seeks to supplement the record, or when the Administrative Law Judge determines the factual record is insufficient, the factual record developed before the Authority will be considered the initial record before the Administrative Law Judge. The record will be supplemented by evidence presented in a hearing before the Administrative Law Judge.

(i) The Administrative Law Judge will conduct an evidentiary hearing lasting no more than 8 hours for each party or the Commission seeking supplementation. The hearing may be extended by request of a party, the Commission, or on the Administrative Law Judge's own initiative, for good cause. When a party seeks to supplement the record, the hearing will be limited to:

(A) An opening statement by the party requesting supplementation of no more than 15 minutes;

(B) Direct examination by the party requesting supplementation, with opportunity for cross-examination by the other party; and

(C) The admission of documentary evidence. When the Administrative Law Judge or the Commission seek supplementation of the record, the Administrative Law Judge or the Commission may issue an order allowing the consideration of additional evidence, describing the additional evidence sought, and prescribing the procedures for holding the hearing before the Administrative Law Judge.

(ii) Within 30 days of the hearing's conclusion, each party will concurrently file with the Secretary for consideration by the Administrative Law Judge proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a proposed order, and a supporting legal brief explaining the party's reasoning. Such filings, limited to 7,500 words, must be served upon the other party and contain references to the record and authorities on which they rely. Reply briefs, limited to 2,500 words, may be filed by each party within 10 days of service of the initial filings.

(iii) The Administrative Law Judge must hear closing statements from the parties within 10 days of the date on which reply briefs are due if either party, in its reply brief, requests the opportunity to make a closing statement.
