
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROCEDURES
##### Subpart T - Procedures for Review of Final Civil Sanctions Imposed under the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act
###### ยง 1.146 Review of civil sanction by an Administrative Law Judge.
####### Hearings in which a party seeks to supplant facts found by the Authority.

(5)(i) In an application for review, an aggrieved person may request an extended hearing before the Administrative Law Judge to supplant facts found by the Authority. The extended hearing may last up to 40 hours. To receive an extended hearing, the aggrieved person must make a proffer of weighty, probative, and substantial evidence and compelling argument in support of its contention that the disciplinary process before the Authority failed to comply with the requirements of 15 U.S.C. 3057(c) or of the Authority's Rule Series 8300, or that prejudicial errors, procedural irregularities, or conflicts of interest were present in, or committed during, the Authority's proceeding and resulted in a failure to provide the "adequate due process" required under section 3057(c)(3). Extended hearings are disfavored and granted only in these circumstances. For applications for review in which applicants request an extended hearing, the total application is limited to 2,500 words (instead of the ordinary 1,000 words).

(ii) The Authority may file a response to the request for an extended hearing within 10 days of being served with the application for review, limited to 2,500 words (instead of the ordinary 1,000 words). The Authority may, in its response, elect to concede that the contention of procedural inadequacy has substantial evidence in support of it. Presented with such a concession, the Administrative Law Judge must order the final civil sanction set aside without prejudice and remand the matter to the Authority.

(iii) The Administrative Law Judge will issue a decision resolving the request for an extended hearing within 10 days of the date on which the Authority's response is due. If the request for an extended hearing is granted in part or in full, the extended hearing will be limited to the same elements listed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, adjusted as deemed necessary by the Administrative Law Judge.

(iv) The final factual record will consist of:

(A) Those facts found by the Authority that, in the determination of the Administrative Law Judge, were found in a process that was consistent with 15 U.S.C. 3057(c), the Authority's Rule Series 8300, and adequate due process; as well as

(B) Any new facts adduced at the hearing and found by the Administrative Law Judge.
