
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 315 - CONTACT LENS RULE
##### ยง 315.3 Availability of contact lens prescriptions to patients.
###### Confirmation of prescription release.

(c)(1)(i) Upon completion of a contact lens fitting, the prescriber shall do one of the following:

(A) Request that the patient acknowledge receipt of the contact lens prescription by signing a statement confirming receipt of the contact lens prescription;

(B) Request that the patient sign a prescriber-retained copy of a contact lens prescription that contains a statement confirming receipt of the contact lens prescription;

(C) Request that the patient sign a prescriber-retained copy of the receipt for the examination that contains a statement confirming receipt of the contact lens prescription; or

(D) If a digital copy of the prescription was provided to the patient (via methods including an online portal, electronic mail, or text message) in compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, retain evidence that the prescription was sent, received, or made accessible, downloadable, and printable.

(ii) If the prescriber elects to confirm prescription release via paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, the prescriber may, but is not required to, use the statement, "My eye care professional provided me with a copy of my contact lens prescription at the completion of my contact lens fitting" to satisfy the requirement.

(iii) In the event the patient declines to sign a confirmation requested under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, the prescriber shall note the patient's refusal on the document and sign it.

(2) A prescriber shall maintain the records or evidence required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for a period of not less than three years. Such records or evidence shall be available for inspection by the Federal Trade Commission, its employees, and its representatives.

(3) Paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section shall not apply to prescribers who do not have a direct or indirect financial interest in the sale of contact lenses, including, but not limited to, through an association, affiliation, or co-location with a contact lens seller.
