
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 316 - CAN-SPAM RULE
##### ยง 316.2 Definitions.

(a) The definition of the term "affirmative consent" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(1).

(b) "Character" means an element of the American Standard Code for Information Interchange ("ASCII") character set.

(c) The definition of the term "commercial electronic mail message" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(2).

(d) The definition of the term "electronic mail address" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(5).

(e) The definition of the term "electronic mail message" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(6).

(f) The definition of the term "initiate" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(9).

(g) The definition of the term "Internet" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(10).

(h) "Person" means any individual, group, unincorporated association, limited or general partnership, corporation, or other business entity.

(i) The definition of the term "procure" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(12).

(j) The definition of the term "protected computer" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(13).

(k) The definition of the term "recipient" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(14).

(l) The definition of the term "routine conveyance" is the same as the definition of that term in the CAN-SPAM Act, 15 U.S.C. 7702(15).
