
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 318 - HEALTH BREACH NOTIFICATION RULE
##### ยง 318.5 Methods of notice.
###### Individual notice.

(a)A vendor of personal health records or PHR related entity that discovers a breach of security shall provide notice of such breach to an individual promptly, as described in ยง 318.4, and in the following form:

(1) Written notice, by first-class mail to the individual at the last known address of the individual, or by email, if the individual is given a clear, conspicuous, and reasonable opportunity to receive notification by first-class mail, and the individual does not exercise that choice. If the individual is deceased, the vendor of personal health records or PHR related entity that discovered the breach must provide such notice to the next of kin of the individual if the individual had provided contact information for his or her next of kin, along with authorization to contact them. The notice may be provided in one or more mailings as information is available.

(2) If, after making reasonable efforts to contact all individuals to whom notice is required under ยง 318.3(a), through the means provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the vendor of personal health records or PHR related entity finds that contact information for ten or more individuals is insufficient or out-of-date, the vendor of personal health records or PHR related entity shall provide substitute notice, which shall be reasonably calculated to reach the individuals affected by the breach, in the following form:

(i) Through a conspicuous posting for a period of 90 days on the home page of its Web site; or

(ii) In major print or broadcast media, including major media in geographic areas where the individuals affected by the breach likely reside. Such a notice in media or web posting shall include a toll-free phone number, which shall remain active for at least 90 days, where an individual can learn whether or not the individual's unsecured PHR identifiable health information may be included in the breach.

(3) In any case deemed by the vendor of personal health records or PHR related entity to require urgency because of possible imminent misuse of unsecured PHR identifiable health information, that entity may provide information to individuals by telephone or other means, as appropriate, in addition to notice provided under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
