
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter D - Trade Regulation Rules
#### PART 423 - CARE LABELING OF TEXTILE WEARING APPAREL AND CERTAIN PIECE GOODS AS AMENDED
##### ยง 423.8 Exemptions.

(a) Any item of textile wearing apparel, without pockets, that is totally reversible (i.e., the product is designed to be used with either side as the outer part or face) is exempt from the care label requirement.

(b) Manufacturers or importers can ask for an exemption from the care label requirement for any other textile wearing apparel product or product line, if the label would harm the appearance or usefulness of the product. The request must be made in writing to the Secretary of the Commission. The request must be accompanied by a labeled sample of the product and a full statement explaining why the request should be granted.

(c) If an item is exempt from care labeling under paragraph (a) or (b), of this section the consumers still must be given the required care information for the product. However, the care information can be put on a hang tag, on the package, or in some other conspicuous place, so that consumers will be able to see the care information before buying the product.

(d) Manufacturers and importers of products covered by ยง 423.5 are exempt from the requirement for a permanent care label if the product can be cleaned safely under the harshest procedures. This exemption is available only if there is reliable proof that all of the following washing and drycleaning procedures can safely be used on a product:

(1) Machine washing in hot water;

(2) Machine drying at a high setting;

(3) Ironing at a hot setting;

(4) Bleaching with all commercially available bleaches;

(5) Drycleaning with all commercially available solvents. In such case, the statement "wash or dry clean, any normal method" must appear on a hang tag, on the package, or in some other conspicuous place, so that consumers will be able to see the statement before buying the product.

(e) Manufacturers and importers need not provide care information with products sold to institutional buyers for commercial use.

(f) All exemption granted under ยง 423.1(c) (1) or (2) or the Care Labeling Rule issued on December 9, 1971, will continue to be in effect if the product still meets the standards on which the original exemption was based. Otherwise, the exemption is automatically revoked.
