
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter D - Trade Regulation Rules
#### PART 423 - CARE LABELING OF TEXTILE WEARING APPAREL AND CERTAIN PIECE GOODS AS AMENDED
##### Appendix A to Part 423 - Glossary of Standard Terms

a. "Machine wash"-a process by which soil may be removed from products or specimens through the use of water, detergent or soap, agitation, and a machine designed for this purpose. When no temperature is given, e.g., "warm" or "cold," hot water up to 145 degrees F (63 degrees C) can be regularly used.

b. "Hot"-initial water temperature ranging from 112 to 145 degrees F [45 to 63 degrees C].

c. "Warm"-initial water temperature ranging from 87 to 111 degrees F [31 to 44 degrees C].

d. "Cold"-initial water temperature up to 86 degrees F [30 degrees C].

e. "Do not have commercially laundered"-do not employ a laundry which uses special formulations, sour rinses, extermely large loads or extermely high temperatures or which otherwise is employed for commercial, industrial or institutional use. Employ laundering methods designed for residential use or use in a self-service establishment.

f. "Small load"-smaller than normal washing load.

g. "Delicate cycle" or "gentle cycle"-slow agitation and reduced time.

h. "Durable press cycle" or "permanent press cycle"-cool down rinse or cold rinse before reduced spinning.

i. "Separately"-alone.

j. "With like colors"-with colors of similar hue and intensity.

k. "Wash inside out"-turn product inside out to protect face of fabric.

l. "Warm rinse"-initial water temperature setting 90&#xB0; to 110 &#xB0;F (32&#xB0; to 43 &#xB0;C).

m. "Cold rinse"-initial water temperature setting same as cold water tap up to 85 &#xB0;F (29 &#xB0;C).

n. "Rinse thoroughly"-rinse several times to remove detergent, soap, and bleach.

o. "No spin" or "Do not spin"-remove material start of final spin cycle.

p. "No wring" or "Do not wring"-do not use roller wringer, nor wring by hand.

a. "Hand wash"-a process by which soil may be manually removed from products or specimens through the use of water, detergent or soap, and gentle squeezing action. When no temperature is given, e.g., "warm" or "cold", hot water up to 150 &#xB0;F (66 &#xB0;C) can be regularly used.

b. "Warm"-initial water temperature 90&#xB0; to 110 &#xB0;F (32&#xB0; to 43 &#xB0;C) (hand comfortable).

c. "Cold"-initial water temperature same as cold water tap up to 85 &#xB0;F (29 &#xB0;C).

d. "Separately"-alone.

e. "With like colors"-with colors of similar hue and intensity.

f. "No wring or twist"-handle to avoid wrinkles and distortion.

g. "Rinse thoroughly"-rinse several times to remove detergent, soap, and bleach.

h. "Damp wipe only"-surface clean with damp cloth or sponge.

a. "Tumble dry"-use machine dryer. When no temperature setting is given, machine drying at a hot setting may be regularly used.

b. "Medium"-set dryer at medium heat.

c. "Low"-set dryer at low heat.

d. "Durable press" or "Permanent press"-set dryer at permanent press setting.

e. "No heat"-set dryer to operate without heat.

f. "Remove promptly"-when items are dry, remove immediately to prevent wrinkling.

g. "Drip dry"-hang dripping wet with or without hand shaping and smoothing.

h. "Line dry"-hang damp from line or bar in or out of doors.

i. "Line dry in shade"-dry away from sun.

j. "Line dry away from heat"-dry away from heat.

k. "Dry flat"-lay out horizontally for drying.

l. "Block to dry"-reshape to original dimensions while drying.

m. "Smooth by hand"-by hand, while wet, remove wrinkles, straighten seams and facings.

a. "Iron"-Ironing is needed. When no temperature is given iron at the highest temperature setting may be regularly used.

b. "Warm iron"-medium temperature setting.

c. "Cool iron"-lowest temperature setting.

d. "Do not iron"-item not to be smoothed or finished with an iron.

e. "Iron wrong side only"-article turned inside out for ironing or pressing.

f. "No steam" or "Do not steam"-steam in any form not to be used.

g. "Steam only"-steaming without contact pressure.

h. "Steam press" or "Steam iron"-use iron at steam setting.

i. "Iron damp"-articles to be ironed should feel moist.

j. "Use press cloth"-use a dry or a damp cloth between iron and fabric.

a. "Bleach when needed"-all bleaches may be used when necessary.

b. "No bleach" or "Do not bleach"-no bleaches may be used.

c. "Only non-chlorine bleach, when needed"-only the bleach specified may be used when necessary. Chlorine bleach may not be used.

a. "Wash or dryclean, any normal method"-can be machine washed in hot water, can be machine dried at a high setting, can be ironed at a hot setting, can be bleached with all commercially available bleaches and can be drycleaned with all commercially available solvents.

a. "Dryclean"-a process by which soil may be removed from products or specimens in a machine which uses any common organic solvent (for example, petroleum, perchlorethylene, fluorocarbon) located in any commercial establishment. The process may include moisture addition to solvent up to 75% relative humidity, hot tumble drying up to 160 &#xB0;F (71 &#xB0;C) and restoration by steam press or steam-air finishing.

b. "Professionally dryclean"-use the drycleaning process but modified to ensure optimum results either by a drycleaning attendant or through the use of a drycleaning machine which permits such modifications or both. Such modifications or special warnings must be included in the care instruction.

c. "Petroleum", "Fluorocarbon", or "Perchlorethylene"-employ solvent(s) specified to dryclean the item.

d. "Short cycle"-reduced or minimum cleaning time, depending upon solvent used.

e. "Minimum extraction"-least possible extraction time.

f. "Reduced moisture" or "Low moisture"-decreased relative humidity.

g. "No tumble" or "Do not tumble"-do not tumble dry.

h. "Tumble warm"-tumble dry up to 120 &#xB0;F (49 &#xB0;C).

i. "Tumble cool"-tumble dry at room temperature.

j. "Cabinet dry warm"-cabinet dry up to 120 &#xB0;F (49 &#xB0;C).

k. "Cabinet dry cool"-cabinet dry at room temperature.

l. "Steam only"-employ no contact pressure when steaming.

m. "No steam" or "Do not steam"-do not use steam in pressing, finishing, steam cabinets or wands.

a. "Leather clean"-have cleaned only by a professional cleaner who uses special leather or suede care methods.
