
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter D - Trade Regulation Rules
#### PART 460 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF HOME INSULATION
##### ยง 460.12 Labels.

If you are a manufacturer, you must label all packages of your insulation. The labels must contain:

(a) The type of insulation.

(b) A chart showing these items:

(1) For batts and blankets of any type: the R-value, length, width, thickness, and square feet of insulation in the package.

(2) For all loose-fill insulation: the minimum settled thickness, initial installed thickness, maximum net coverage area, number of bags per 1,000 square feet, and minimum weight per square foot at R-values of 13, 19, 22, 30, 38, and 49. You must also give this information for any additional R-values you list on the chart. Labels for these products must state the minimum net weight of the insulation in the package. You must also provide information about the blowing machine and machine settings used to derive the initial installed thickness information.

(3) For boardstock: the R-value, length, width, and thickness of the boards in the package, and the square feet of insulation in the package.

(4) For reflective insulation: The number of sheets; the number and thickness of the air spaces; and the R-value provided by that system when the direction of heat flow is up, down, and horizontal. You can show the R-value for only one direction of heat flow if you clearly and conspicuously state that the insulation can only be used in that application.

(5) For insulation materials with reflective facings, you must follow the rule in this section that applies to the material itself. For example, if you manufacture boardstock with a reflective facing, follow paragraph (b)(3) of this section. You can also show the R-value of the insulation when it is installed in conjunction with an air space. This is its "system R-value." If you do this, you must clearly and conspicuously state the conditions under which the system R-value can be attained.

(6) For air duct insulation: the R-value, length, width, thickness, and square feet of insulation in the package.

(c) The following statement: "R means resistance to heat flow. The higher the R-value, the greater the insulating power."

(d) If installation instructions are included on the label or with the package, add this statement: "To get the marked R-value, it is essential that this insulation be installed properly. If you do it yourself, follow the instructions carefully."

(e) If no instructions are included, add this statement: "To get the marked R-value, it is essential that this insulation be installed properly. If you do it yourself, get instructions and follow them carefully. Instructions do not come with this package."
