
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter D - Trade Regulation Rules
#### PART 460 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF HOME INSULATION
##### ยง 460.13 Fact sheets.

If you are a manufacturer, you must give retailers and installers fact sheets for the insulation products you sell to them. Each sheet must contain what is listed here. You can add any disclosures that are required by federal laws, regulations, rules, or orders. You can add any disclosures that are required by State or local laws, rules, and orders, unless they are inconsistent with the provisions of this regulation. Do not add anything else. Each fact sheet must contain these items:

(a) The name and address of the manufacturer. It can also include a logo or other symbol that the manufacturer uses.

(b) A heading: "This is ________ insulation." Fill in the blank with the type and form of your insulation.

(c) The heading must be followed by a chart:

(1) If ยง 460.12(b) requires a chart for your product's label, you must use that chart. For foamed-in-place insulations, you must show the R-value of your product at 3inches. You can also show R-values at other thicknesses.

(2) You can put the charts for similar products on the same fact sheet. For example, if you sell insulation boards or batts in three different thicknesses, you can put the label charts for all three products on one fact sheet. If you sell loose-fill insulation in two different bag sizes, you can put both coverage charts on one fact sheet, as long as you state which coverage chart applies to each bag size.

(d) For air duct insulation, the chart must be followed by this statement:

(e) After the chart and any statement dealing with the specific type of insulation, ALL fact sheets must carry this statement, boxed, in 12-point type:

(f) For R-19 insulation batts, the fact sheet must also disclose the insulation's R-value when installed in wall cavities where the insulation's thickness exceeds the depth of the cavity.
