
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter D - Trade Regulation Rules
#### PART 460 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF HOME INSULATION
##### ยง 460.18 Insulation ads.

(a) If your ad gives an R-value, you must give the type of insulation and the thickness needed to get that R-value. Also, add this statement explaining R-values: "The higher the R-value, the greater the insulating power. Ask your seller for the fact sheet on R-values."

(b) If your ad gives a price, you must give the type of insulation, the R-value at a specific thickness, the statement explaining R-values in paragraph (a) of this section, and the coverage area for that thickness. If you give the price per square foot, you do not have to give the coverage area.

(c) If your ad gives the thickness of your insulation, you must give its R-value at that thickness and the statement explaining R-values in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) If your ad compares one type of insulation to another, the comparison must be based on the same coverage areas. You must give the R-value at a specific thickness for each insulation, and the statement explaining R-values in paragraph (a) of this section. If you give the price of each insulation, you must also give the coverage area for the price and thickness shown. However, if you give the price per square foot, you do not have to give the coverage area.

(e) The affirmative disclosure requirements in this section do not apply to television or radio advertisements or to space-constrained advertisements. For the purposes of this part, "space-constrained advertisement" means any communication made through interactive media (such as the internet, online services, and software, including but not limited to internet search results and banner ads) that has space, format, size or technological limitations or restrictions that prevent industry members from making disclosures required by this part clearly and conspicuously. Industry members maintain the burden of showing that there is insufficient space to provide the disclosures that this part otherwise requires be made clearly and conspicuously.
