
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter D - Trade Regulation Rules
#### PART 460 - LABELING AND ADVERTISING OF HOME INSULATION
##### § 460.19 Savings claims.

(a) If you say or imply in your ads, labels, or other promotional materials that insulation can cut fuel bills or fuel use, you must have a reasonable basis for the claim. For example, if you say that insulation can "slash" or "lower" fuel bills, or that insulation "saves money," you must have a reasonable basis for the claim. Also, if you say that insulation can "cut fuel use in half," or "lower fuel bills by 30%," you must have a reasonable basis for the claim.

(b) If you say or imply in your ads, labels, or other promotional materials that insulation can cut fuel bills or fuel use, you must make this statement about savings: "Savings vary. Find out why in the seller's fact sheet on R-values. Higher R-values mean greater insulating power."

(c) If you say or imply that a combination of products can cut fuel bills or use, you must have a reasonable basis for the claim. You must make the statement about savings in paragraph (b) of this section. Also, you must list the combination of products used. They may be two or more types of insulation; one or more types of insulation and one or more other insulating products, like storm windows or siding; or insulation for two or more parts of the house, like the attic and walls. You must say how much of the savings came from each product or location. If you cannot give exact or approximate figures, you must give a ranking. For instance, if your ad says that insulation and storm doors combined to cut fuel use by 50%, you must say which one saved more.

(d) If your ad or other promotional material is covered by § 460.18 (a), (b), (c), or (d), and also makes a savings claim, you must follow the rules in §§ 460.18 and 460.19. However, you need not make the statement explaining R-value in § 460.18(a).

(e) Manufacturers are liable if they do not have a reasonable basis for their savings claims before the claim is made. If you are not a manufacturer, you are liable only if you know or should know that the manufacturer does not have a reasonable basis for the claim.

(f) Keep records of all data on savings claims for at least three years. For the records showing proof for claims, the three years will begin again each time you make the claim. Federal Trade Commission staff members can check these records at any time, but they must give you reasonable notice first.

(g) The affirmative disclosure requirements in this section do not apply to television or radio advertisements or to space-constrained advertisements. "Space-constrained advertisement" is defined in § 460.18(e).
