
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter E - Rules, Regulations, Statement of General Policy or Interpretation and Exemptions Under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
#### PART 500 - REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 4 OF THE FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING ACT
##### ยง 500.2 Terms defined.
###### principal display panel

(h) The termmeans that part of a label that is most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under normal and customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel must be large enough to accommodate all the mandatory label information required to be placed thereon by this part without obscuring designs, vignettes, or crowding. This definition does not preclude utilization of alternate principal display panels on a label of a package, but alternate principal display panels must duplicate the information required to be placed on the principal display panel by this part. This definition does not preclude utilization of the container closure as the surface bearing the principal display panel if that label location is the one most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under normal and customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel of a label appearing on a cylindrical surface is that 40 percent of the circumference which is more likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under normal and customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel of a consumer commodity marketed in a decorative type container, or a container having a capacity ofounce (7.4 mL) or less, may be considered to be a tear-away tag or tape affixed to the container and bearing the mandatory label information as required by this part, but the type size of the net quantity of contents statement shall be governed by the dimensions of the container itself. The principal display panel of a consumer commodity marketed on a display card to which the immediate container of the commodity is affixed may be considered to be the display panel of the card, and the type size of the net quantity of contents statement is governed by the dimensions of the display card.
