
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter E - Rules, Regulations, Statement of General Policy or Interpretation and Exemptions Under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
#### PART 500 - REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 4 OF THE FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING ACT
##### ยง 500.5 Name and place of business of manufacturer, packer or distributor.

(a) The label of a consumer commodity shall specify conspicuously the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor. Where the consumer commodity is not manufactured by the person whose name appears on the label, the name shall be qualified by a phrase that reveals the connection such person has with such commodity; such as "Manufactured for ______," "Distributed by ______," or any other wording that expresses the facts.

(b) The requirement for declaration of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor shall in the case of a corporation be deemed to be satisfied only by the actual corporate name, which may be preceded or followed by the name of the particular division of the corporation. In the case of an individual, partnership, or association, the name under which the business is conducted shall be used.

(c) The statement of the place of business shall include the street address, city, state, and zip code; however, the street address may be omitted if it is listed in a readily accessible, widely published, and publicly available resource, including but not limited to a printed directory, electronic database, or Web site.

(d) If a person manufactures, packs, or distributes a consumer commodity at a place other than his principal place of business, the label may state the principal place of business in lieu of the actual place where such consumer commodity was manufactured or packed or is to be distributed, unless such statement would be misleading.

(e) Standard abbreviations may be used in complying with the requirements of this section.
