
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter E - Rules, Regulations, Statement of General Policy or Interpretation and Exemptions Under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
#### PART 500 - REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 4 OF THE FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING ACT
##### ยง 500.12 Measurement of commodities by length and width, how expressed.

For bidimensional commodities (including roll-type commodities) measured in terms of commodity length and width, the declaration of net quantity of contents shall be expressed in the following manner:

(a) The declaration of net quantity for bidimensional commodities having a width of more than 4 inches (10.1 cm) shall:

(1) When the commodity has an area of less than 1 square foot (929 cm) be expressed in terms of length and width in linear measure. The customary inch/pound statement is to be expressed in inches and fractions thereof.

(2) When the commodity has an area of 1 square foot (929 cm) or more, but less than 4 square feet (37.1 dm), be expressed in terms of area, followed by the length and width. The customary inch/pound statement of area is to be expressed in square inches with length and width expressed in the largest whole unit (yard or foot) with any remainder in inches or common or decimal fractions of the yard or foot except that a dimension of less than 2 feet (60.9 cm) may be stated in inches. Commodities consisting of usable individual units (e.g., paper napkins) while requiring a declaration of unit area need not declare the total area of all such individual units.

(3) When the commodity has an area of 4 square feet (37.1 dm) or more, be expressed in terms of area, followed by the length and width. The customary inch/pound statement of area is to be expressed in square feet with the length and width expressed in the largest whole units (yards or feet) with any remainder in terms of inches or common or decimal fractions of the foot or yard except that a dimension of less than 2 feet (60.96 cm) may be stated in inches.

(4) For any commodity for which the quantity of contents is required by paragraph (a) (2) or (3) of this section to include a declaration of the linear dimensions, the quantity of contents, in addition to being declared in the manner prescribed by the appropriate provisions of this regulation, may also include, after the customary inch/pound statement of the linear dimensions of the largest unit of measurement, a parenthetical declaration of the linear dimensions of said commodity in terms of inches.

(b) For bidimensional commodities having a width of 4 inches (10.16 cm) or less, the declaration of net quantity shall be expressed in terms of width and length in linear measure. The customary inch/pound statement of width shall be expressed in terms of linear inches and fractions thereof, and length shall be expressed in the largest whole unit (yard or foot) with any remainder in terms of the common or decimal fractions of the yard or foot, except that it shall be optional to express the length in the largest whole unit followed by a statement of length in inches or to express the length in inches followed by a statement of length in the largest whole unit.
