
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter E - Rules, Regulations, Statement of General Policy or Interpretation and Exemptions Under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
#### PART 500 - REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 4 OF THE FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING ACT
##### ยง 500.16 Measurement of container type commodities, how expressed.

Notwithstanding other provisions of this part 500 of the regulations pertaining to the expression of net quantity of contents by measurement, commodities designed and sold at retail to be used as containers for other materials or objects, such as bags, cups, boxes, and pans, shall be labeled in accordance with the following paragraphs:

(a) The declaration of net quantity for container commodities shall be expressed as follows:

(1) For bag type commodities, in terms of count followed by linear dimensions of the bag (whether packaged in a perforated roll or otherwise) Net quantity of contents in terms of feet and inches shall be expressed as follows:

(i) When the unit bag is characterized by two dimensions because of the absence of a gusset, the width and length will be expressed in inches, except that a dimension of 2 feet or more will be expressed in feet with any remainder in terms of inches or common or decimal fractions of the foot.

(ii) When the unit bag is gussetted, the dimensions will be expressed as width, depth and length in terms of inches except that any dimensions of 2 feet or more will be expressed in feet with any remainder in terms of inches or the common or decimal fractions of the foot.

(2) For other square, oblong, rectangular or similarly shaped containers, in terms of count followed by length, width, and depth except depth need not be listed when less than 2 inches (5.08 cm).

(3) For circular or other generally round shaped containers, except cups, and the like, in terms of count followed by diameter and depth except depth need not be listed when less than 2 inches (5.08 cm).

(b) When the functional use of the container is related by label reference in standard terms of measure to the capability of holding a specific quantity of substance or class of substances such references shall be a part of the net quantity statement and shall specify capacity as follows:

(1) Liquid measure for containers which are intended to be used for liquids, semi-solids, viscous materials or mixtures of solids and liquids. The customary inch/pound statement of capacity shall be stated in terms of the largest whole U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches, quart, pint, or ounce with any remainder in terms of the common or decimal fraction of that unit.

(2) Dry measure for containers which are intended to be used for solids. The customary inch/pound statement of capacity shall be stated in terms of the largest whole U.S. bushel of 2,150.42 cubic inches, peck, dry quart, or dry pint with any remainder in terms of the common or decimal fraction of that unit.

(3) Where containers are used as liners for other more permanent containers, in the same terms as are normally used to express the capacity of the more permanent container.

(c) Notwithstanding the above requirements, the net quantity statement for containers such as cups will be listed in terms of count and liquid capacity per unit.

(d) For purposes of this section, the use of the terms "capacity," "diameter," and "fluid" is optional.
