
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter E - Rules, Regulations, Statement of General Policy or Interpretation and Exemptions Under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
#### PART 503 - STATEMENTS OF GENERAL POLICY OR INTERPRETATION
##### ยง 503.5 Interpretation of the definition of "consumer commodity" as contained in section 10(a) of the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act.
###### Consumed or expended.

(5)These terms as they are used in section 10(a) mean (i) the immediate destruction or extinction of an article, product, or commodity, or of the part used; or (ii) the substantial diminution in the quantity, quality or utility of an article, product, or commodity which results from usage upon one or several occasions over a comparatively short period of time.

(g) The foregoing definition serves to amplify the definition of "consumer commodity" supplied by Congress in section 10(a) of the Act. As questions arise as to whether specific articles, products, or commodities are included in the above definition, the Commission will consider, among other things, the Congressional policy declared in section 2 of the Act, namely, that packages and labels should enable consumers to obtain accurate information as to the quantity of contents and should facilitate value comparisons. That is, in making its determinations of inclusions and exclusions under this definition, the Commission will consider the requirements of both the Act and the pertinent regulations and in that connection will regard as one criterion the extent to which the disclosures required on "consumer commodities" are material to a consumer's selection of a particular article, product, or commodity. Interpretative rulings in such instances will be made public, and can be expected to further contribute to the development of clearer delineation of the scope of the term "consumer commodity".

(h) With respect to articles, products, or commodities included within the definition of "consumer commodities", the Commission will consider requests for exemptions in accordance with section 5(b) of the Act and ยง 500.3(e) of this chapter, and will make public its rulings on all such requests.
