
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 2 - NONADJUDICATIVE PROCEDURES
##### Subpart A - Inquiries; Investigations; Compulsory Processes
###### ยง 2.7 Compulsory process in investigations.
####### In general.

(a)When the public interest warrants, the Commission may issue a resolution authorizing the use of compulsory process. The Commission or any Commissioner may, pursuant to a Commission resolution, issue a subpoena, or a civil investigative demand, directing the recipient named therein to appear before a designated representative at a specified time and place to testify or to produce documentary material, or both, and in the case of a civil investigative demand, to provide a written report or answers to questions, relating to any matter under investigation by the Commission. For the purposes of this subpart, the term:

(1) Electronically stored information ("ESI") means any writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, sound recordings, images and other data or data compilations stored in any electronic medium from which information can be obtained either directly or, if necessary, after translation by the responding party into a reasonably usable form.

(2) "Documentary material" includes all documents, materials, and information, including ESI, within the meaning of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(3) "Compulsory process" means any subpoena, CID, access order, or order for a report issued by the Commission.

(4) "Protected status" refers to information or material that may be withheld from production or disclosure on the grounds of any privilege, work product protection, or statutory exemption.
