
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter H - Rules, Regulations, Statements and Interpretations Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976
#### PART 801 - COVERAGE RULES
##### ยง 801.1 Definitions.
###### Hold.,hold,hold(s), holding, holder,held

(c)(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) (2) through (8) of this section, the term(as used in the termsand) means beneficial ownership, whether direct, or indirect through fiduciaries, agents, controlled entities or other means.

(2) The holdings of spouses and their minor children shall be holdings of each of them.

(3) Except for a common trust fund or collective investment fund within the meaning of 12 CFR 9.18(a) (both of which are hereafter referred to in this paragraph as "collective investment funds"), and any revocable trust or an irrevocable trust in which the settlor retains a reversionary interest in the corpus, a trust, including a pension trust, shall hold all assets and voting securities constituting the corpus of the trust.

(4) The assets and voting securities constituting the corpus of a revocable trust or the corpus of an irrevocable trust in which the settlor(s) retain(s) a reversionary interest in the corpus shall be holdings of the settlor(s) of such trust.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, beneficiaries of a trust, including a pension trust or a collective investment fund, shall not hold any assets or voting securities constituting the corpus of such trust.

(6) A bank or trust company which administers one or more collective investment funds shall hold all assets and voting securities constituting the corpus of each such fund.

(7) An insurance company shall hold all assets and voting securities held for the benefit of any general account of, or any separate account administered by, such company.

(8) A person holds all assets and voting securities held by the entities included within it; in addition to its own holding, an entity holds all assets and voting securities held by the entities which it controls directly or indirectly.
