
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter H - Rules, Regulations, Statements and Interpretations Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976
#### PART 801 - COVERAGE RULES
##### § 801.2 Acquiring and acquired persons.

(a) Any person which, as a result of an acquisition, will hold voting securities or assets, either directly or indirectly, or through fiduciaries, agents, or other entities acting on behalf of such person, is an acquiring person.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 801.12, the person(s) within which the entity whose assets or voting securities are being acquired is included, is an acquired person.

(c) For purposes of the act and these rules, a person may be an acquiring person and an acquired person with respect to separate acquisitions which comprise a single transaction.

(d)(1)(i) Mergers and consolidations are transactions subject to the act and shall be treated as acquisitions of voting securities.

(ii) In a merger, the person which, after consummation, will include the corporation in existence prior to consummation which is designated as the surviving corporation in the plan, agreement, or certificate of merger required to be filed with State authorities to effectuate the transaction shall be deemed to have made an acquisition of voting securities.

(2)(i) Any person party to a merger or consolidation is an acquiring person if, as a result of the transaction, such person will hold any assets or voting securities which it did not hold prior to the transaction.

(ii) Any person party to a merger or consolidation is an acquired person if, as a result of the transaction, the assets or voting securities of any entity included within such person will be held by any other person.

(iii) All persons party to a transaction as a result of which all parties will lose their separate pre-acquisition identities or will become wholly owned subsidiaries of a newly formed entity shall be both acquiring and acquired persons. This includes any combination of corporations and unincorporated entities consolidating into any newly formed entity. In such transactions, each consolidating entity is deemed to be acquiring all of the voting securities (in the case of a corporation) or interests (in the case of an unincorporated entity) of each of the others.

(e) Whenever voting securities or assets are to be acquired from an acquiring person in connection with an acquisition, the acquisition of voting securities or assets shall be separately subject to the act.

(f)(1)(i) In an acquisition of non-corporate interests which results in an acquiring person controlling the entity, that person is deemed to hold all of the assets of the entity as a result of the acquisition. The acquiring person is the person acquiring control of the entity and the acquired person is the pre-acquisition ultimate parent entity of the entity.

(ii) The value of an acquisition described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section is determined in accordance with § 801.10(d).

(2) Any contribution of assets or voting securities to an existing unincorporated entity or to any successor thereof is deemed an acquisition of such voting securities or assets by the ultimate parent entity of that entity and is not subject to § 801.50.

(3) Any person who acquires control of an existing not-for-profit corporation which has no outstanding voting securities is deemed to be acquiring all of the assets of that corporation.

(g) Transfers of patent rights within NAICS Industry Group 3254.

(1) This paragraph applies only to patents covering products whose manufacture and sale would generate revenues in NAICS Industry Group 3254, including:

(2) The transfer of patent rights covered by this paragraph constitutes an asset acquisition; and

(3) Patent rights are transferred if and only if all commercially significant rights to a patent, as defined in § 801.1(o), for any therapeutic area (or specific indication within a therapeutic area) are transferred to another entity. All commercially significant rights are transferred even if the patent holder retains limited manufacturing rights, as defined in § 801.1(p), or co-rights, as defined in § 801.1(q).

Examples: Although these examples refer to licenses, which are typically used to effect the transfer of pharmaceutical patent rights to a recipient of those rights, other methods of transferring patent rights, by assignment or grant, among others, are similarly covered by these rules and examples.

1. B holds a patent relating to an active pharmaceutical ingredient for cardiovascular use. A will obtain a license from B that grants A the exclusive right to all of B's patent rights except that both A and B can manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient to be sold by A under the exclusive license agreement. B retains limited manufacturing rights as defined in § 801.1(p) because it retains the right to manufacture the product covered by the patent for cardiovascular use solely to provide the product to A. A is still receiving all commercially significant rights to the patent, and the transfer of these rights via the license constitutes an asset acquisition. Further, even if B retained all rights to manufacture (so that A could not manufacture), B would still retain limited manufacturing rights, and A would still receive all commercially significant rights to the patent. Thus, the transfer of these rights via the license would also constitute an asset acquisition.

2. B holds a patent for an in-vitro diagnostic substance relating to arthritis. B will grant A an exclusive license to all of B's patent rights for all veterinary indications. B retains all patent rights for all human indications. The exclusive license to all commercially significant rights for all veterinary indications is an asset acquisition because A is receiving all rights to the patent for a therapeutic area.

3. B holds a patent relating to a biological product. B will grant A an exclusive license to all of B's patent rights in all therapeutic areas. A and B are also entering into a co-development and co-commercialization agreement under which B will assist A in developing, marketing and promoting the product to physicians. B cannot separately use the patent in the same therapeutic area as A under the co-development and co-commercialization agreement. A will book all sales of the product and will pay B a portion of the profits resulting from those sales. Despite B's retention of these co-rights, A is still receiving all commercially significant rights. The licensing agreement is an asset acquisition. This would be an asset acquisition even if B also retained limited manufacturing rights.

4. B holds a patent relating to an active pharmaceutical ingredient and a bulk compound that contains that active pharmaceutical ingredient. B will grant A an exclusive license to use the bulk compound to manufacture and sell a finished product in the neurological therapeutic area. B cannot manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient or bulk compound for any other finished products in the neurological area, but it can manufacture either for use by another party in a different therapeutic area. Despite B's retention of manufacturing rights of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and bulk compound for therapeutic areas other than neurology, A is still receiving all commercially significant rights in a therapeutic area and the licensing agreement is the acquisition of an asset.

5. B holds a patent related to a pharmaceutical product that has been approved by the FDA. B will enter into an exclusive distribution agreement with A that will give A the right to distribute the product in the U.S. B will manufacture the product for A and will receive a portion of all revenues from the sale of the product. A receives no exclusive patent rights under the distribution agreement. A has not obtained all commercially significant rights to the patent because it is only handling the logistics of selling and distributing the product on B's behalf. Therefore, the exclusive distribution agreement is not an asset acquisition.
