
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter H - Rules, Regulations, Statements and Interpretations Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976
#### PART 802 - EXEMPTION RULES
##### ยง 802.2 Certain acquisitions of real property assets.
###### Office and residential property.

(d)(1) An acquisition of office or residential property shall be exempt from the requirements of the act. In an acquisition that includes office or residential property, the transfer of any assets that are not office or residential property shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if such assets were being transferred in a separate acquisition.

(2) Office and residential property is real property that is used primarily for office or residential purposes. In determining whether real property is used primarily for office or residential purposes, all real property, the acquisition of which is exempt under another provision of the act and these rules, shall be excluded from the determination. Office and residential property includes:

(i) Office buildings,

(ii) Residences,

(iii) Common areas on the property, including parking and recreational facilities, and

(iv) Assets incidental to the ownership of such property, including cash, prepaid taxes or insurance, rental receivables and the like.

(3) If the acquisition includes the purchase of a business conducted on the office and residential property, the transfer of that business, including the space in which the business is conducted, shall be subject to the requirements of the act and these rules as if such business were being transferred in a separate acquisition.
