
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter H - Rules, Regulations, Statements and Interpretations Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976
#### PART 803 - TRANSMITTAL RULES
##### ยง 803.9 Filing fee.
###### paragraphs (b), (c),,(f)

(a) Each acquiring person shall pay the filing fee required by the act to the Federal Trade Commission, except as provided inandof this section. No additional fee is to be submitted to the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. Examples:

(1) "A" wishes to acquire voting securities issued by B, where the greater of the acquisition price and the market price is in excess of $50 million (as adjusted) but less than $100 million (as adjusted) pursuant to ยง 801.10 of this chapter. When "A" files notification for the transaction, it must indicate the $50 million (as adjusted) threshold. If the value of the voting securities is less than $161.5 million, "A" must pay a filing fee of $30,000 because the aggregate total amount of the acquisition is greater than $50 million (as adjusted) but less than $161.5 million. If the aggregate total value of the voting securities is at least $161.5 million, but less than $500 million, "A" must pay a filing fee of $100,000.

(2) "A" acquires $75 million of assets from "B." The parties meet the size of person criteria of section 7A(a)(2)(B) of the act, but the transaction is not reportable because it does not exceed the $50 million (as adjusted) size of transaction threshold of that provision. Two months later "A" acquires additional assets from "B" valued at $175 million. Pursuant to the aggregation requirements of ยง 801.13(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter, the aggregate total amount of "B's" assets that "A" will hold as a result of the second acquisition is $250 million. Accordingly, when "A" files notification for the second transaction, "A" must pay a filing fee of $100,000 because the aggregate total amount of the acquisition is less than $500 million, but not less than $161.5 million.
