
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter H - Rules, Regulations, Statements and Interpretations Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976
#### PART 803 - TRANSMITTAL RULES
##### § 803.11 Termination of waiting period.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no waiting period shall be terminated pursuant to section 7A(b)(2) unless-

(1) All notifications required to be filed with respect to the acquisition by the act and these rules (or, if such notification is not completed, the notification to the extent completed and a statement of the reasons for such noncompliance in accordance with § 803.3) have been received,

(2) It has been determined that no additional information or documentary material pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20 will be requested, or, if such additional information or documentary material has been requested, it (or, if a request is not fully complied with, the information and documentary material submitted and a statement of the reasons for such noncompliance in accordance with § 803.3) has been received, and

(3) The Federal Trade Commission and the Assistant Attorney General have concluded that neither intends to take any further action within the waiting period.

(b) Any request for additional information or documentary material pursuant to section 7A(e) and § 803.20 shall constitute a denial of all pending requests for termination of the waiting period.

(c) The Federal Trade Commission and the Assistant Attorney General may, in their discretion, terminate a waiting period upon the written request of any person filing notification or, notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, sua sponte. A request for termination of the waiting period shall be sent to the offices designated in § 803.10(c). Termination shall be effective upon notice to any requesting person by either email or telephone, and such notice shall be given as soon as possible. Such notice shall be made to each person which has filed notification, and notice of termination shall be published in thein accordance with section 7A(b)(2) of the Clayton Act (the "act"). The Federal Trade Commission and the Assistant Attorney General also may use other means to make the termination public, prior to publication in thein a manner that will make the information equally accessible to all members of the public.
