
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1000 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 1000.27 Directorate for Health Sciences.

The Directorate for Health Sciences is managed by the Associate Executive Director for Health Sciences and is responsible for reviewing and evaluating the human health effects and hazards related to consumer products and assessing exposure, uptake and metabolism, including information on population segments at risk. Directorate staff conducts health studies and research in the field of consumer product-related injuries. The Directorate performs risk assessments for chemical, physiological and physical hazards based on methods such as medical injury modeling, and on injury and incident data for mechanical, thermal, chemical and electrical hazards in consumer products. It provides the Commission's primary source of scientific expertise for implementation of the Poison Prevention Packaging Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act. The Directorate assists in the development and evaluation of product safety standards and test methods based on scientific and public health principles. It provides support to the Commission's regulatory development and enforcement activities. It manages hazard identification and analysis, and hazard assessment and reduction projects as assigned. The Directorate provides liaison with the National Toxicology Program, the Department of Health and Human Services (including the Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health), the Occupational Health and Safety Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, other Federal agencies and programs, and other organizations concerned with reducing the risk to consumers from exposure to consumer product hazards.
