
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1000 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 1000.28 Directorate for Economic Analysis.

The Directorate for Economic Analysis, which is managed by the Associate Executive Director for Economic Analysis, is responsible for providing the Commission with advice and information on economic and environmental matters and on the economic, social and environmental effects of Commission actions. It analyzes the potential effects of CPSC actions on consumers and on industries, including effects on competitive structure and commercial practices. The Directorate acquires, compiles, and maintains economic data on movements and trends in the general economy and on the production, distribution, and sales of consumer products and their components to assist in the analysis of CPSC priorities, policies, actions, and rules. It plans and carries out economic surveys of consumers and industries. It studies the costs of accidents and injuries. It evaluates the economic, societal, and environmental impact of product safety rules and standards. It performs regulatory analyses and studies of costs and benefits of CPSC actions as required by the Consumer Product Safety Act, The National Environmental Policy Act, the Regulatory Flexibility Act and other Acts, and by policies established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The Directorate manages hazard assessment and reduction projects as assigned.
