
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1000 - COMMISSION ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
##### ยง 1000.29 Directorate for Engineering Sciences.

The Directorate for Engineering Sciences, which is managed by the Associate Executive Director for Engineering Sciences, is responsible for developing technical policy for and implementing the Commission's engineering programs. The Directorate manages hazard assessment and reduction projects as assigned by the Office of Hazard Identification and Reduction; provides engineering technical support and product safety assessments for the Office of Compliance and Field Operations; provides engineering, scientific, and technical expertise to the Commission and Commission staff as requested; and provides engineering technical support to other Commission organizations, activities, and programs as needed. The Directorate develops and evaluates product safety standards, product safety tests and test methods, performance criteria, design specifications, and quality control standards for consumer products, based on engineering and scientific methods. It conducts engineering analysis and testing of the safety of consumer products, and evaluates and participates in the development of mandatory and voluntary standards for consumer products including engineering and human factors analyses in support of standards development and product compliance testing. The Directorate performs or monitors research for consumer products in a broad array of engineering disciplines including chemical, electrical, fire protection, human factors, and mechanical engineering. It conducts and coordinates engineering research, testing, and evaluation activities with other Federal agencies, private industry, and consumer interest groups. The Directorate conducts human factors studies and research of consumer product related injuries, including evaluations of labels, signs and symbols, instructions, and other measures intended to address the human component of injury prevention. The Directorate provides technical supervision and direction of engineering activities including tests and analyses conducted in the field.
