
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1011 - NOTICE OF AGENCY ACTIVITIES
##### ยง 1011.4 Forms of advance public notice of meetings; Public Calendar/Master Calendar and Federal Register.
###### Public Calendar/Master Calendar.

(a)(1) The printed Public Calendar and the Master Calendar maintained in the Office of the Secretary are the principal means by which the Agency notifies the public of its day-to-day activities. The Public Calendar and/or Master Calendar provide advance notice of public hearings, Commission meetings, Agency meetings with outside parties involving substantial interest matters, other Agency meetings, selected staff meetings, advisory committee meetings, and other activities such as speeches and participation in panel discussions, regardless of the location. The Public Calendar also lists recent CPSCissuances and Advisory Opinions of the Office of the General Counsel.

(2) Upon request in writing to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207, any person or organization will be sent the Public Calendar on a regular basis free of charge. In addition, interested persons may contact the Office of the Secretary to obtain information from the Master Calendar which is kept current on a daily basis.

(3) The Public Calendar and the Master Calendar, supplemented by meeting summaries, are intended to serve the requirements of section 27(j)(8) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2076(j)(8)).
