
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1013 - GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT, RULES FOR COMMISSION MEETINGS
##### ยง 1013.5 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Commission meetings, transcripts, recordings, or minutes.

(1) The Agency shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording of each Commission meeting, whether open or closed, except that in the case of a Commission meeting or portion thereof closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (b)(10) of ยง 1013.4, the Agency may elect to maintain a set of meeting minutes instead of a transcript or a recording. Minutes of such closed Commission meetings shall:

(i) Fully and clearly describe all matters discussed, and

(ii) Provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote (reflecting the vote of each Commissioner on the question). All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in the meeting minutes.

(2) The transcript, recording or minutes of closed Commission meetings shall include the certification by the General Counsel or by his or her designee, required by ยง 1013.4(c)(3) and a statement by the presiding Commissioner setting forth the date, time and place of the meeting and the persons present.

(3) The transcript, recording, or minutes of any Commission meeting may include attachments such as Commission opinions, briefing papers, or other documents presented at the meeting.

(4) The transcript and accompanying material shall be maintained by the Secretary for a period of at least two years after the meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Agency proceeding with respect to which the meeting, or portion thereof, was held, whichever occurs later.

(b) Minutes of Commission Decisions. Minutes of Commission Decisions summarizing the issues presented to the Commission for decision and indicating the vote of each Commissioner document the decisions of the Commission, whether made at open or closed meetings or by ballot vote. The Commission's final Minutes of Commission Decisions, issued by the Office of the Secretary, constitute the official means of recording the decisions of the Commission and the votes of individual Commissioners.
