
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1014 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 1014.3 Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records.

(a) Any individual may request the Commission to inform him or her whether a particular record system named by the individual contains a record pertaining to him or her. The request may be made by mail or in person during business hours (8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.) to the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland (mailing address: Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207).

(b) An individual who believes that the Commission maintains a record pertaining to him or her but who cannot determine which record system may contain the record, may request assistance by mail or in person at the Office of the Secretary during business hours.

(c) A Commission officer or employee or former employee who desires to review or obtain a copy of a personnel record pertaining to him or her may make a request by mail or in person at the Office of Human Resources Management, Room 523, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland (mailing address: Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207).

(d) Each individual requesting the disclosure of a record or a copy of a record shall furnish the following information to the extent known with the request to the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer or to the Division of Personnel's Processing Unit, as applicable:

(1) A description of the record sought;

(2) The approximate date of the record;

(3) The name or other description of the record system containing the record;

(4) Proof as required in ยง 1014.4 that he or she is the individual to whom the requested record relates; and

(5) Any other information required by the notice describing the record system.

(e) An individual personally inspecting his or her records may be accompanied by other persons of his or her own choosing. The individual shall sign a written statement authorizing disclosure of the record in the other person's presence.

(f) Any individual who desires to have a record concerning himself or herself disclosed to or mailed to another person may authorize that person to act as his or her agent for that specific purpose. The authorization shall be in writing, signed by the individual, and shall be notarized. An agent requesting the review or copy of another's record shall submit with the request the authorization and proof of his or her identify as required by ยง 1014.4(c).

(g) The parent of any minor individual or the legal guardian of any individual who has been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be incompetent, due to physical or mental incapacity or age, may act on behalf of that individual in any matter covered by this part. A parent or guardian who desires to act on behalf of such individual shall present suitable evidence of parentage or guardianship, by birth certificate, certified copy of a court order, or similar documents, and proof of the individual's identity in a form that complies with ยง 1014.4(c).

(h) An individual may request an accounting of all disclosures made to other persons or agencies of his or her record, except those disclosures made to law enforcement agencies pursuant to section (b)(7) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7)). A request for accounting, whenever made, shall be treated as a request for disclosure of records.
