
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1014 - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IMPLEMENTING THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
##### ยง 1014.8 Appeal of initial denial of access, correction or amendment.

(a) Any individual whose request for access, correction or amendment to a record is denied, in whole or in part, may appeal that decision within 30 working days to the Chairman, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207.

(b) The appeal shall be in writing and shall:

(1) Name the individual making the appeal;

(2) Identify the record to which access is sought or which is sought to be corrected or amended;

(3) Name or describe the record system in which the record is contained;

(4) Contain a short statement describing the correction of amendment sought;

(5) State the name and location of the Commission official who initially denied the correction or amendment; and

(6) State the date of the initial denial.

(c) Not later than 30 working days after the date on which the appeal is received, the Chairman shall complete a review of the appeal and make a final decision thereon. However, for good cause shown, the Chairman of the Commission may extend the 30-day period. If the Chairman so extends the period, he or she shall promptly notify the individual requesting the review that the extension has been made.

(d) If after review of an appeal request, the Chairman also refuses to amend the record or grant access to the record in accordance with the request, he or she shall send a written notice to the requester containing the following information:

(1) The decision and the reasons for the decision;

(2) The right of the requester to institute a civil action in a Federal District Court for judicial review of the decision; and

(3) The right of the requester to file with the Chairman a concise statement setting forth the reasons for his or her disagreement with the denial of the correction or amendment. A copy of the statement of disagreement shall be filed with the record in issue, and the record in issue shall be so marked as to indicate that there is a disagreement. The system manager shall make the statement of disagreement available to prior recipients of the disputed record to the extent that an accounting of disclosures was maintained, and to any person to whom the record is later disclosed, together with a brief statement, if deemed appropriate, of the reasons for denying the requested correction or amendment.
