
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1015 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OR PRODUCTION OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure Under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)
###### ยง 1015.3 Requests for records.
####### https://www.cpsc.gov;,cpscfoiarequests@cpsc.gov

(a) A request for access to records of the Commission shall be in writing addressed to the Chief FOIA Officer and shall be submitted through any of the following methods: The e-FOIA Public Access Link atemail tomail to Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Room 820, Bethesda, MD 20814; or facsimile to 301-504-0127. Any written request for records covered by this part shall be deemed to be a request for records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, whether or not the Freedom of Information Act is mentioned in the request. An oral request for records will not be considered a request for records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act. Responses to oral requests for records shall be made as promptly as resources and time restraints permit.

(b) A request for access to records must reasonably describe the records requested. Where possible, specific information regarding dates, title, file designations, and other information which may help identify the records should be supplied by the requester. If the request relates to a matter in pending litigation, where the Commission is a party, the court and its location should be identified. Where the information supplied by the requester is not sufficient to permit identification and location of the records by Commission personnel without an unreasonable amount of effort, the requester will be contacted and asked to supply the necessary information. Every reasonable effort shall be made by Commission personnel to assist in the identification and location of requested records. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the Commission's FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records.

(c) If it is determined that a request would unduly burden or interfere with the operations of the Commission, the response shall so state and shall extend to the requester an opportunity to confer with appropriate Commission personnel in an attempt to reduce the request to manageable proportions by reformulation and by agreeing on an orderly procedure for the production of the records.

(d) If a requested record cannot be located from the information supplied, or is known to have been destroyed or otherwise disposed of, the requester shall be so notified by the Secretariat or delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer.

(e) The Consumer Product Safety Commission uses a multitrack system to process requests under the Freedom of Information Act that is based on the amount of work and/or time involved in processing requests. Requests for records are processed in the order they are received within each track. Upon receipt of a request for records, the Chief FOIA Officer or delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer will determine which track is appropriate for the request. The Chief FOIA Officer or delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer may contact requesters whose requests do not appear to qualify for the fastest tracks and provide such requesters the opportunity to limit their requests so as to qualify for a faster track. Requesters who believe that their requests qualify for the fastest tracks and who wish to be notified if the Chief FOIA Officer or delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer disagrees may so indicate in the request and, where appropriate and feasible, will also be given an opportunity to limit their requests.
