
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1015 - PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OR PRODUCTION OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
##### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure Under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)
###### ยง 1015.5 Time limitation on responses to requests for records and requests for expedited processing.
####### https://www.cpsc.gov/Newsroom/FOIA.

(e) If an extension of time greater than ten (10) working days is necessary, the Commission shall make available its FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose. A list of the Commission FOIA Public Liaisons is available atThe Commission will also notify requesters in writing to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration to provide dispute resolution services.

(f) The Chief FOIA Officer, or the delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer, may aggregate and process as a single request, requests by the same requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, if the Chief FOIA Officer, or delegate, reasonably believes that the requests actually constitute a single request that would otherwise satisfy the "unusual circumstances" specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and the requests involve clearly related matters.

(g) The Chief FOIA Officer, or the delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer, will provide expedited processing of requests in cases where the requester requests expedited processing and demonstrates a compelling need for such processing.

(1) The term "compelling need" means:

(i) That a failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or

(ii) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, that there is an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity.

(2) Requesters for expedited processing must include in their requests, which may be submitted through any of the methods described in ยง 1015.3(a), a statement setting forth the basis for the claim that a "compelling need" exists for the requested information, certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge and belief.

(3) The Chief FOIA Officer or the delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer will determine whether to grant a request for expedited processing and will notify the requester of such determination within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the request.

(4) Denials of requests for expedited processing may be appealed to the Office of the General Counsel, as set forth in ยง 1015.7. The General Counsel will determine expeditiously any such appeal.

(5) The Chief FOIA Officer, or the delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer, will process, as soon as is practicable, the documents responsive to a request for which expedited processing is granted.

(h) The Chief FOIA Officer may be unable to comply with the time limits set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, when disclosure of documents responsive to a request under this part is subject to the requirements of section 6 of the Consumer Product Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 2055, and the regulations implementing that section, 16 CFR part 1101. The Chief FOIA Officer, or the delegate of the Chief FOIA Officer, will notify requesters whose requests will be delayed for this reason.
