
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1018 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart B - Establishment of Advisory Committees
###### ยง 1018.16 Membership selection.

(a) Whenever new applicants are required for a Commission advisory committee, public notice will be issued in theinviting individuals to submit, on or before a specified date, applications or nominations for membership.

(b) An applicant for membership on an advisory committee shall disclose all affiliations, either paid or as a volunteer, that bear any relationship to the subject area of product safety or to membership on the advisory committee. This disclosure shall include both current affiliations and relevant past affiliations.

(c) The Secretary of the Commission shall, from time to time, appoint a Candidate Evaluation Panel consisting of qualified, staff members of the Commission, including the Advisory Committee Management Officer.

(d) The Candidate Evaluation Panel, using selection criteria established by the Commission, shall evaluate all candidates and submit to the Commissioners the names of those candidates it recommends for membership. Where possible, at least three candidates shall be recommended for each appointment to be made. Final selection for membership shall be made by the Commissioners.

(e) The membership of each Commission Advisory Committee shall be fairly balanced in terms of geographic location, age, sex, and race.
