
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1020 - SMALL BUSINESS
##### ยง 1020.4 What is the Small Business Program?

(a) Whenever the Commission is aware of the interests of small businesses, it will consider those interests before taking any action that will likely have a significant effect on small businesses.

(b) Small businesses may request and receive special assistance from the Commission, as appropriate and consistent with Commission resources. Examples of such assistance are:

(1) Small businesses may contact the Small Business Ombudsman to obtain information about Commission statutes, regulations, or programs; to obtain technical assistance; to determine who in the agency has particular expertise that might be helpful to the small business; or to help expedite a small business's request.

(2) Small businesses may request assistance from the Commission by using the small business extension on the Commission's hotline telephone system. The number is 1-800-638-2772, extension 234.

(3) The Small Business Ombudsman will directly provide small businesses with the requested assistance, or will direct the small business to the appropriate Commission staff for help.

(c) Whenever the Commission issues a final regulatory flexibility analysis for a rule, under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 604), the Commission will publish a compliance guide for small businesses. The guide will explain in easy-to-understand language what action a small business must take to comply with the rule.

(d) The Commission may take other appropriate actions to assist small businesses, but such actions will not treat any other Commission constituent unfairly.
