
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1021 - ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
##### Subpart B - Procedures
###### ยง 1021.7 Coordination of environmental review with CPSC procedures.

(a) The Commission shall consider all relevant environmental documents in evaluating proposals for Commission action. The preparation and completion of assessments and statements required by this part shall be scheduled to assure that available environmental information is before the Commission at all appropriate stages of development of CPSC actions along with technical and economic information otherwise required. The range of alternatives discussed in appropriate environmental documents shall be encompassed by the range of alternatives considered by the Commission for an action.

(b) An environmental assessment on a proposed rulemaking action requiring environmental review shall be available to the commission before the Commission votes on a proposed rule, and its alternatives. If the Executive Director determines that an EIS is needed, the draft EIS shall normally be before the Commission at the time it votes to publish a proposed rule. A final EIS shall be before the Commission when it considers final action on a proposed rule. Relevant environmental documents shall accompany the proposed rulemaking action throughout the Commission's decisionmaking process.

(c) Draft EISs or findings of no significant impact together with environmental assessments shall be made available to the public for comment at the time of publication in theof CPSC proposals for regulatory action requiring environmental review or promptly thereafter. Pursuant to ยง 1506.10 of the NEPA regulations, no decision on a proposed action shall be made by the Commission until the later of 90 days after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has published a notice announcing receipt of the draft EIS or 30 days after EPA announces receipt of the final EIS. These time periods may run concurrently. In addition, with regard to rulemaking for the purpose of protecting the public health and safety, the Commission may waive the 30 day period and publish a decision on a final rule simultaneously with publication by EPA of the notice of availability.

(d) Whenever the Commission decides to solicit offers by an outside person or organization to develop a proposed consumer product safety standard in accordance with section 7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056) and the Executive Director has determined that environmental review is needed, the Executive Director shall recommend to the Commission whether the "offeror" should perform an environmental assessment during development of the proposed standard. In making this recommendation, the Executive Director shall take into account the resources of the "offeror", including the expertise and money available to it. If the Commission decides that the "offeror" should perform an assessment, the agreement between the Commission and the offeror shall so provide. CPSC, however, shall independently evaluate any assessment prepared and shall take responsibility for the scope and content of the assessment.

(e) CPSC adjudications are primarily law enforcement proceedings and therefore are not agency actions within the meaning of NEPA. (See ยง 1508.18(8) of the NEPA regulations.) However, in CPSC formal rulemaking proceedings, all available environmental information, including any supplements to a draft or final EIS, shall be filed in the Office of the Secretary and shall be made part of the formal record of the proceeding.
