
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1025 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart B - Pleadings, Form, Execution, Service of Documents
###### ยง 1025.17 Intervention.
####### Participation as an intervenor.

(a)Any person who desires to participate as a party in any proceedings subject to these rules shall file a written petition for leave to intervene with the Secretary and shall serve a copy of the petition on each party.

(1) A petition shall ordinarily be filed not later than the convening of the first prehearing conference. A petition filed after that time will not be granted unless the Presiding Officer determines that the petitioner has made a substantial showing of good cause for failure to file on time.

(2) A petition shall:

(i) Identify the specific aspect or aspects of the proceedings as to which the petitioner wishes to intervene,

(ii) Set forth the interest of the petitioner in the proceedings,

(iii) State how the petitioner's interest may be affected by the results of the proceedings, and

(iv) State any other reasons why the petitioner should be permitted to intervene as a party, with particular reference to the factors set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Any petition relating only to matters outside the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be denied.

(3) Any person whose petition for leave to intervene is granted by the Presiding Officer shall be known as an "intervenor" and as such shall have the full range of litigating rights afforded to any other party.
