
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1025 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart B - Pleadings, Form, Execution, Service of Documents
###### ยง 1025.17 Intervention.
####### Participation by a person not an intervenor.

(b)Any person who desires to participate in the proceedings as a non-party shall file with the Secretary a request to participate in the proceedings and shall serve a copy of such request on each party to the proceedings.

(1) A request shall ordinarily be filed not later than the commencement of the hearing. A petition filed after that time will not be granted unless the Presiding Officer determines that the person making the request has made a substantial showing of good cause for failure to file on time.

(2) A request shall set forth the nature and extent of the person's alleged interest in the proceedings. Any request relating only to matters outside the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be denied.

(3) Any person who files a request to participate in the proceedings as a non-party and whose request is granted by the Presiding Officer shall be known as a "Participant" and shall have the right to participate in the proceedings to the extent of making a written or oral statement of position, filing proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and a post hearing brief with the Presiding Officer, and filing an appellate brief before the Commission if an appeal is taken by a party or review is ordered by the Commission in accordance with ยง 1025.53 or ยง 1025.54, as applicable, of these rules.
