
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1025 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart C - Prehearing Procedures, Motions, Interlocutory Appeals, Summary Judgments, Settlements
###### § 1025.24 Interlocutory appeals.
####### Exceptions.

(b)(1) Interlocutory appeals to Commission. The Commission may, in its discretion, consider interlocutory appeals where a ruling of the Presiding Officer:

(i) Requires the production of records claimed to be confidential;

(ii) Requires the testimony of a supervisory official of the Commission other than one especially knowledgeable of the facts of the matter in adjudication;

(iii) Excludes an attorney from participation in any proceedings pursuant to § 1025.42(b);

(iv) Denies or unduly limits a petition for intervention pursuant to the provisions of § 1025.17.

(2) Procedure for interlocutory appeals. Within ten (10) days of issuance of a ruling other than one ordering the production of records claimed to be confidential, any party may petition the Commission to consider an interlocutory appeal of a ruling in the categories enumerated above. The petition shall not exceed fifteen (15) pages. Any other party may file a response to the petition within ten (10) days of its service except where the order appealed from requires the production of records claimed to be confidential. The response shall not exceed fifteen (15) pages. The Commission shall decide the petition or may request such further briefing or oral presentation as it deems necessary.

(3) If the Presiding Officer orders the production of records claimed to be confidential a petition for interlocutory appeal shall be filed within five (5) days of the entry of the order. Any opposition to the petition shall be filed within five (5) days of service of the petition. The order of the Presiding Officer shall be automatically stayed until five (5) days following the date of entry of the order to allow an affected party the opportunity to file a petition with the Commission for an interlocutory appeal pursuant to § 1025.24(b)(2). If an affected party files a petition with the Commission pursuant to § 1025.24(b)(2) within the 5-day period, the stay of the Presiding Officer's order is automatically extended until the Commission decides the petition.
