
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1025 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart D - Discovery, Compulsory Process
###### ยง 1025.34 Requests for admission.
####### Procedure for response.

(b)The matter about which an admission is requested will be deemed admitted unless within thirty (30) days after service of the request, or within such shorter or longer time as the Presiding Officer may allow, the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the party requesting the admission a written answer or objection addressed to the matter, signed by the party or the party's representative and stating the reasons for the objections. The answer shall specifically admit or deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the substance of the requested admission. When good faith requires that a party qualify an answer or deny only a part of the matter to which an admission is requested, the party shall specify the portion that is true and qualify or deny the remainder. An answering party may not give lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny a fact unless the party states that he/she has made reasonable inquiry and that the information known or readily available to him/her is insufficient to enable him/her to admit or deny a fact. A party who considers that a matter to which an admission has been requested presents a genuine issue for hearing may not, on that ground alone, object to the request but may deny the matter or set forth reasons why the party cannot admit or deny it. The party who has requested an admission may move to determine the sufficiency of any answer or objection in accordance with ยง 1025.36 of these Rules. If the Presiding Officer determines that an answer does not comply with the requirements of this section, he/she may order that the matter be deemed admitted or that an amended answer be served.
