
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1025 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart H - Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act in Adjudicative Proceedings With the Commission
###### ยง 1025.70 General provisions.
####### Eligibility of applicants.

(d)(1) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the EAJA, the applicant must be a party to the adversary adjudication for which it seeks an award. The term "party" is defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3) and 16 CFR 1025.3(f). The applicant must show that it meets all conditions of eligibility set out in this paragraph and in ยง 1025.71.

(2) The types of eligible applicants are:

(i) Individuals with a net worth of not more than $1 million;

(ii) Sole owners of unincorporated businesses who have a net worth of not more than $5 million including both personal and business interests, and not more than 500 employees;

(iii) Charitable or other tax-exempt organizations described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) which have not more than 500 employees;

(iv) Any other partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $5 million and which have not more than 500 employees.

(3) For the purpose of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated.

(4) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered as an "individual" rather than as a "sole owner of an unincorporated business" if the issues on which the applicant prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interests.

(5) The number of employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
