
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1025 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Appendix I to Part 1025 - Suggested Form of Final Prehearing Order
###### will,may

(d) Written list(s) of the witnesses whom each partycall, written list(s) of the additional witnesses whom each partycall, and a statement of the subject matter on which each witness will testify;

(e) An agreed statement of the contested issues of fact and of law, or separate statements by each party of any contested issues of fact and law not agreed to;

(f) A list of all depositions to be read into evidence and statements of any objections thereto;

(g) A list and brief description of any charts, graphs, models, schematic diagrams, and similar objects that will be used in opening statements or closing arguments but will not be offered in evidence. If any other such objects are to be used by any party, those objects will be submitted to opposing counsel at least three days prior to the hearing. If there is then any objection to their use, the dispute will be submitted to the Presiding Officer at least one day prior to the hearing;

(h) Written waivers of claims or defenses which have been abandoned by the parties.

The foregoing were modified at the pretrial conference as follows:

3. Complaint Counsel's Evidence. 3.1 The following exhibits were offered by Complaint Counsel, received in evidence, and marked as follows:

The authenticity of these exhibits has been stipulated.

3.2 The following exhibits were offered by Complaint Counsel and marked for identification. There was reserved to the respondent(s) (and party intervenors) the right to object to their receipt in evidence on the grounds stated:

4. Respondent's Evidence. 4.1 The following exhibits were offered by the respondent(s), received in evidence, and marked as herein indicated:

The authenticity of these exhibits has been stipulated.

4.2 The following exhibits were offered by the respondent(s) and marked for identification. There was reserved to Complaint Counsel (and party intervenors) the right to object to their receipt in evidence on the grounds stated:

5. Party Intervenor's Evidence. 5.1 The following exhibits were offered by the party intervenor(s), received in evidence, and marked as herein indicated:

The authenticity of these exhibits has been stipulated.

5.2 The following exhibits were offered by the party intervenor(s) and marked for identification. There was reserved to Complaint Counsel and respondent(s) the right to object to their receipt in evidence on the grounds stated:

6. Additional Actions. The following additional action(s) were taken:

7. Limitations and Reservations. 7.1 Each of the parties has the right to further supplement the list of witnesses not later than ten (10) days prior to commencement of the hearing by furnishing opposing counsel with the name and address of the witness and general subject matter of his/her testimony and by filing a supplement to this pretrial order. Thereafter, additional witnesses may be added only after application to the Presiding Officer, for good cause shown.

7.2 Rebuttal witnesses not listed in the exhibits to this order may be called only if the necessity of their testimony could not reasonably be foreseen ten (10) days prior to trial. If it appears to counsel at any time before trial that such rebuttal witnesses will be called, notice will immediately be given to opposing counsel and the Presiding Officer.

7.3 The probable length of hearing is __ days. The hearing will commence on the ______ day of ______, 19__, at __ o'clock _ m. at ____.

7.4 Prehearing briefs will be filed not later than 5:00 p.m. on __________ (Insert date not later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing.) All anticipated legal questions, including those relating to the admissibility of evidence, must be covered by prehearing briefs.

This prehearing order has been formulated after a conference at which counsel for the respective parties appeared. Reasonable opportunity has been afforded counsel for corrections or additions prior to signing. It will control the course of the hearing, and it may not be amended except by consent of the parties and the Presiding Officer, or by order of the Presiding Officer to prevent manifest injustice.
