
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1031 - COMMISSION PARTICIPATION AND COMMISSION EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT IN VOLUNTARY STANDARDS ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart A - General Policies
###### ยง 1031.7 Commission support of voluntary standards activities.

(a) The Commission's support of voluntary safety standards development activities may include any one or a combination of the following actions:

(1) Providing epidemiological and health science information and explanations of hazards for consumer products.

(2) Encouraging the initiation of the development of voluntary standards for specific consumer products.

(3) Identifying specific risks of injury to be addressed in a voluntary standard.

(4) Performing or subsidizing technical assistance, including research, health science data, and engineering support, in the development of a voluntary standard activity in which the Commission staff is participating.

(5) Providing assistance on methods of disseminating information and education about the voluntary standard or its use.

(6) Performing a staff evaluation of a voluntary standard to determine its adequacy and efficacy in reducing the risks of injury that have been identified by the Commission as being associated with the use of the product.

(7) Encouraging state and local governments to reference or incorporate the provisions of a voluntary standard in their regulations or ordinances and to participate in government or industrial model code development activities, so as to develop uniformity and minimize conflicting State and local regulations.

(8) Monitoring the number and market share of products conforming to a voluntary safety standard.

(9) Providing for the involvement of agency personnel in voluntary standards activities as described in subpart B of this part.

(10) Providing administrative assistance, such as hosting meetings and secretarial assistance.

(11) Providing funding support for voluntary standards development, as permitted by the operating plan, performance budget, mid-year review, or other official Commission document.

(12) Taking other actions that the Commission believes appropriate in a particular situation.

(b) [Reserved]
