
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1031 - COMMISSION PARTICIPATION AND COMMISSION EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT IN VOLUNTARY STANDARDS ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart B - Employee Involvement
###### ยง 1031.13 Criteria for employee involvement.

(a) Commission officials, other than those positions listed in ยง 1031.12(a), may be involved in the development of voluntary safety standards for consumer products, but only in their official capacity as employees of the Commission and if permitted to do so by their supervisor and any other person designated by agency management procedures. Such involvement shall be in accordance with Commission procedures.

(b) Employees in positions listed in ยง 1031.12(a)(4), (5), and (6) may be involved, on a case-by-case basis, in the development of a voluntary standard provided that they have the specific advance approval of the Commission.

(c) Except in extraordinary circumstances and when approved in advance by the Executive Director in accordance with the provisions of the Commission's meetings policy, 16 CFR part 1012, Commission personnel shall not become involved in meetings concerning the development of voluntary standards that are not open to the public for attendance and observation. Attendance of Commission personnel at a voluntary standard meeting shall be noted in the public calendar and meeting logs filed with the Office of the Secretary in accordance with the Commission's meetings policy.

(d) Generally, Commission employees may become involved in the development of voluntary standards only if they are made available for comment by all interested parties prior to their use or adoption.

(e) Involvement by Commission officials and employees in voluntary standards bodies or standards-developing groups does not, of itself, connote Commission agreement with, or endorsement of, decisions reached, approved or published by such bodies or groups.
