
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1031 - COMMISSION PARTICIPATION AND COMMISSION EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT IN VOLUNTARY STANDARDS ACTIVITIES
##### Subpart B - Employee Involvement
###### ยง 1031.15 Communication criteria.

(a) Commission officials and employees, who are not in the positions listed in ยง 1031.12(a), or who are not already authorized to communicate with a voluntary standards group or representative incidental to their approved membership in a voluntary standard organization or group or as part of a voluntary standard, may:

(1) Communicate, within the scope of their duties, with a voluntary standard group, representative, or other committee member, on voluntary standards matters which are substantive in nature, i.e., matters that pertain to the formulation of the technical aspects of a specific voluntary standard or the course of conduct for developing the standard, only with the specific advance approval from the person or persons to whom they apply to obtain approval for involvement pursuant to ยง 1031.13. The approval may indicate the duration of the approval and any other conditions.

(2) Communicate, within the scope of their duties, with a voluntary standard group, representative, or other committee member, concerning voluntary standards activities which are not substantive in nature.

(b) Commission employees may communicate with voluntary standards organizations only in accordance with Commission procedures.

(c) Commissioners can engage in substantive and non-substantive written communications with voluntary standards bodies or representatives, provided a disclaimer in such communications indicates that any substantive views expressed are only their individual views and are not necessarily those of the Commission. Where a previous official Commission vote has taken place, that vote should also be noted in any such communication. Copies of such communications shall thereafter be provided to the other Commissioners, the Office of the Secretary, and the Voluntary Standards Coordinator.

(d) The Voluntary Standards Coordinator shall be furnished a copy of each written communication of a substantive nature and a report of each oral communication of a substantive nature between a Commission official or employee and a voluntary standards organization or representative which pertains to a voluntary standards activity. The information shall be provided to the Voluntary Standards Coordinator as soon as practicable after the communication has taken place.
