
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1061 - APPLICATIONS FOR EXEMPTION FROM PREEMPTION
##### ยง 1061.8 Information on the heightened degree of protection afforded.

An application for an exemption from preemption shall also contain information demonstrating that the State or local requirement provides a significantly higher degree of protection from the risk of injury or illness than the preempting Commission statute, standard, or regulation. More specifically, an application shall contain:

(a) A description of the risk of injury or illness addressed by the State or local requirement.

(b) A detailed explanation of the State or local requirement and its rationale.

(c) An analysis of differences between the State or local requirement and the Commission statute, standard, or regulation.

(d) A detailed explanation of the State or local test method and its rationale.

(e) Information comparing available test results for the Commission statute, standard, or regulation and the State or local requirement.

(f) Information to show hazard reduction as a result of the State or local requirement, including injury data and results of accident simulation.

(g) Any other information that is relevant to applicant's contention that the State or local requirement provides a significantly higher degree of protection than does the Commission statute, standard, or regulation.

(h) Information regarding enforcement of the State or local requirement and sanctions that could be imposed for noncompliance.
