
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1101 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER SECTION 6(b) OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart A - Background
###### ยง 1101.1 General background.
####### Statutory requirements.

(b)Section 6(b) establishes procedures that the Commission must follow when it releases certain firm specific information to the public and when it retracts certain information it has released.

(1) Generally, section 6(b)(1) requires the Commission to provide manufacturers or private labelers with advance notice and opportunity to comment on information the Commission proposes to release, if the public can readily ascertain the identity of the firm from the information. Section 6(b)(1) also requires the Commission to take reasonable steps to assure that the information is accurate and that disclosure is fair in the circumstances and reasonably related to effectuating the purposes of the Acts administered by the Commission. Disclosure of information may not occur in fewer than 15 days after notice to the manufacturer or private labeler unless the Commission publishes a finding that the public health and safety requires a lesser period of notice. Exceptions to these requirements are established in section 6(b)(4). Additional limitations on the disclosure of information reported to the Commission under section 15(b) of the CPSA are established in section 6(b)(5).

(2) Section 6(b)(2) requires the Commission to provide further notice to manufacturers or private labelers where the Commission proposes to disclose product-specific information the firms have claimed to be inaccurate.

(3) Section 6(b)(3) authorizes manufacturers and private labelers to bring lawsuits against the Commission to prevent disclosure of product-specific information after the firms have received the notice specified.
