
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1101 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER SECTION 6(b) OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart B - Information Subject to Notice and Analysis Provisions of Section 6(b)(1)
###### ยง 1101.12 Commission must disclose information to the public.
####### Public.

For the purposes of section 6(b)(1), the public includes any person except:

(a) Members, employees, agents, representatives and contractors of the Commission, in their official capacity.

(b) State officials who are commissioned officers under section 29(a)(2) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2078(a)(2), to the extent that the Commission furnishes them information necessary for them to perform their duties under that section. Such officials may not release to the public copies of such information unless the Commission has complied with section 6(b) or the information falls within an exception to section 6(b).

(c) Members of a Commission Chronic Hazard Advisory Panel established under section 28 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2077). However, disclosures of information by such a Panel are subject to section 6(b).

(d) The persons or firms to whom the information to be disclosed pertains, or their legal representatives.

(e) The persons or firms who provided the information to the Commission, or their legal representatives.

(f) Other Federal agencies or state or local governments to whom accident and investigation reports are provided pursuant to section 29(e) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2078(e)). However, as required by that section, employees of Federal agencies or state or local governments may not release to the public copies of any accident or investigation report made under the CPSA by an officer, employee or agent of the Commission unless CPSC has complied with the applicable requirements of section 6(b).

(g) The Chairman or ranking minority member of a committee or subcommittee of Congress acting pursuant to committee business and having jurisdiction over the matter which is the subject of the information requested.

(h) Any federal, state, local, or foreign government agency pursuant to, and in accordance with, section 29(f) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-314, 122 Stat. 3016 (August 14, 2008)).
