
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1101 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER SECTION 6(b) OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart C - Procedure for Providing Notice and Opportunity To Comment Under Section 6(b)(1)
###### ยง 1101.21 Form of notice and opportunity to comment.
####### Content of notice.

(b)The Commission will provide the manufacturer or private labeler with:

(1) Either the actual text of the information to be disclosed or, if appropriate, a summary of the information.

(2) A general description of the manner in which the Commission will disclose the information, including any other relevant information the Commission intends to include with the disclosure. If the Commission advises that the form of disclosure will be by press release, for example, the Commission need not provide further notice to disclose a summary of the press release.

(3) A request for comment with respect to the information, including a request for explanatory data or other relevant information for the Commission's consideration.

(4) A statement that, in the absence of a specific request by a firm that its comments be withheld from disclosure, the Commission will release to the public the firm's comments (or a summary thereof prepared by the firm or, if the firm declines to do so, by the Commission).

(5) A statement that a request that comments be withheld from disclosure will be honored.
