
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1101 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER SECTION 6(b) OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart E - Statutory Exceptions of Section 6(b)(4)
###### ยง 1101.44 Rulemaking proceeding exception.
####### Scope of exception.

(b)This exception applies upon publication in theof an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or, if no advance notice of proposed rulemaking is issued, upon publication in theof a notice of proposed rulemaking, under any of the acts the Commission administers. Once the exception applies, the Commission may publicly disclose information in the course of the rulemaking proceeding which is presented during the proceeding or which is contained or referenced in the public record of the proceeding and or which concerns the proceeding without following the requirements of section 6(b)(1). Documentation supporting the public record is also excepted from section 6(b). A rulemaking proceeding includes a proceeding either to issue, to amend, or to revoke a rule.

(c) The phrase "in the course of" refers to information disclosed as part of the proceeding and may, therefore, include information generated before the proceeding began and later presented as part of the proceeding. A rulemaking proceeding ends once the Commission has published the final rule or a notice of termination of the rulemaking in the

(d) The phrase "concerning" refers to information about the proceeding itself both after the proceeding has begun and indefinitely thereafter. Therefore, the Commission may publicly disclose information that describes the substance, process and outcome of the proceeding. By issuing opinions and public statements, the Commissioners, and the presiding official, who act as decisionmakers, may also publicly explain their individual votes and any decision rendered.
