
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1101 - INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER SECTION 6(b) OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart F - Retraction
###### ยง 1101.52 Procedure for retraction.
####### Content of request.

(c)A request for retraction must include the following information to the extent it is reasonably available:

(1) The information disclosed for which retraction is requested, the date on which the information was disclosed, the manner in which it was disclosed, who disclosed it, the type of document (e.g., letter, memorandum, news release) and any other relevant information the firm has to assist the Commission in identifying the information. A photocopy of the disclosure should accompany the request.

(2) A statement of the specific aspects of the information the firm believes are inaccurate or misleading and reflect adversely either on the safety of a consumer product with which the firm deals or on the firm's practices.

(3) A statement of the reasons the firm believes the information is inaccurate or misleading and reflects adversely either on the safety of a consumer product with which the firm deals or on the firm's practices.

(4) A statement of the action the firm requests the Commission to take in publishing a retraction in a manner equivalent to that in which disclosure was made.

(5) Any additional data or information the firm believes is relevant.
