
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1107 - TESTING AND LABELING PERTAINING TO PRODUCT CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Certification of Children's Products
###### ยง 1107.23 Material change.
####### General Requirements.

(a)If a children's product undergoes a material change in product design or manufacturing process, including the sourcing of component parts, which a manufacturer exercising due care knows, or should know, could affect the product's ability to comply with the applicable children's product safety rules, the manufacturer must submit a sufficient number of samples of the materially changed children's product for testing by a third party conformity assessment body and issue a new Children's Product Certificate. The number of samples submitted must be sufficient to provide a high degree of assurance that the materially changed component part or finished product complies with the applicable children's product safety rules. A manufacturer of a children's product that undergoes a material change cannot issue a new Children's Product Certificate for the product until the product meets the requirements of the applicable children's product safety rules. The extent of such testing may depend on the nature of the material change. When a material change is limited to a component part of the finished children's product and does not affect the ability of other component parts of the children's product or the finished children's product to comply with other applicable children's product safety rules, a manufacturer may issue a new Children's Product Certificate based on the earlier third party certification tests and on test results of the changed component part conducted by a third party conformity assessment body. A manufacturer must exercise due care to ensure that any component part undergoing component part-level testing is identical in all material respects to the component part on the finished children's product. Changes that cause a children's product safety rule to no longer apply to a children's product are not considered to be material changes.
