
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1107 - TESTING AND LABELING PERTAINING TO PRODUCT CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Certification of Children's Products
###### ยง 1107.26 Recordkeeping.

(a) A manufacturer of a children's product subject to an applicable children's product safety rule must maintain the following records:

(1) A copy of the Children's Product Certificate for each product. The children's product covered by the certificate must be clearly identifiable and distinguishable from other products;

(2) Records of each third party certification test. The manufacturer must have separate certification tests records for each manufacturing site;

(3) Records of one of the following for periodic tests of a children's product:

(i) A periodic test plan and periodic test results;

(ii) A production testing plan, production test results, and periodic test results; or

(iii) Testing results of tests conducted by a testing laboratory accredited to ISO/IEC 17025 (see ยง 1107.21 for availability) and periodic test results.

(4) Records documenting the testing of representative samples, as set forth in ยง 1107.21(f), including the number of representative samples selected and the procedure used to select representative samples. Records also must include the basis for inferring compliance of the product manufactured during the periodic testing interval from the results of the tested samples;

(5) Records of descriptions of all material changes in product design, manufacturing process, and sourcing of component parts, and the certification tests run and the test values; and

(6) Records of the undue influence procedures, including training materials and training records of all employees trained on these procedures, including attestations described at ยง 1107.24(b)(1).

(b) A manufacturer must maintain the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section for five years. The manufacturer must make these records available, either in hard copy or electronically, such as through an Internet Web site, for inspection by the CPSC upon request. Records may be maintained in languages other than English if they can be:

(1) Provided immediately by the manufacturer to the CPSC; and

(2) Translated accurately into English by the manufacturer within 48 hours of a request by the CPSC, or any longer period negotiated with CPSC staff.
