
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1109 - CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR RELYING ON COMPONENT PART TESTING OR CERTIFICATION, OR ANOTHER PARTY'S FINISHED PRODUCT TESTING OR CERTIFICATION, TO MEET TESTING AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart A - General Conditions and Requirements
###### ยง 1109.5 Conditions, requirements, and effects generally.
####### Certification by finished product certifiers.

(i)(1) A finished product certifier must exercise due care in order to rely, in whole or in part, on one or more of the following as a basis for issuing a finished product certificate:

(i) Finished product certificate(s) issued by another party;

(ii) Finished product test report(s) provided by another party;

(iii) Component part certificate(s); or

(iv) Component part test report(s).

(2) If a finished product certifier fails to exercise due care in its reliance on another party's certifications or test reports, then the Commission will not consider the finished product certifier to hold a certificate issued in accordance with section 14(a) of the CPSA. Exercising due care in this context means taking the steps that a prudent and competent person in the same line of business would take to conduct a reasonable review of another party's certification or test reports, and to address any concern over their validity, before relying on such documents to issue a finished product certificate. Due care does not permit willful ignorance. Such steps may vary according to the circumstances.

(3) A finished product certifier must not rely on another party's certifications or test reports unless the finished product certifier receives the documentation under paragraph (g) of this section from the certifier or testing party. The finished product certifier may receive such documentation either in hard copy or electronically, or access the documentation through an Internet Web site. The Commission may consider a finished product certifier who does not obtain such documentation before certifying a consumer product to have failed to exercise due care.
