
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1112 - REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO THIRD PARTY CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT BODIES
##### Subpart C - Audit Requirements for Third Party Conformity Assessment Bodies
###### ยง 1112.33 What must an audit address or cover and who conducts the audit?

(a) The reassessment portion of an audit must cover management requirements and technical requirements. Each reassessment portion of an audit also must examine the third party conformity assessment body's management systems to ensure that the third party conformity assessment body is free from any undue influence regarding its technical judgment.

(b) The third party conformity assessment body must have the reassessment portion of the audit conducted by the same accreditation body that accredited the third party conformity assessment body. For example, if a third party conformity assessment body was accredited by an accreditation body named AB-1, then AB-1 would conduct the reassessment. If, however, the same third party conformity assessment body changes its accreditation so that it becomes accredited by a different accreditation body named AB-2, then AB-2 would conduct the reassessment.

(c) The third party conformity assessment body must have the examination portion of the audit conducted by the CPSC. The examination portion of the audit will consist of resubmission of the "Consumer Product Conformity Assessment Body Acceptance Registration Form" (CPSC Form 223) by the third party conformity assessment body and the CPSC's examination of the resubmitted CPSC Form 223.

(1) For "firewalled" conformity assessment bodies, the CPSC's examination may include verification to ensure that the "firewalled" conformity assessment body continues to meet the criteria set forth in section 14(f)(2)(D) of the CPSA.

(2) For government-owned or government-controlled conformity assessment bodies, the CPSC's examination may include verification to ensure that the government-owned or government-controlled conformity assessment body continues to meet the criteria set forth in section 14(f)(2)(B) of the CPSA.
