
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1112 - REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO THIRD PARTY CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT BODIES
##### Subpart D - Adverse Actions: Types, Grounds, Allegations, Procedural Requirements, and Publication
###### ยง 1112.51 What are the procedures relevant to adverse actions?
####### Procedures for Investigations, Inspections, and Inquiries,

(2) The Commission will use its16 CFR part 1118, subpart A, to investigate under this part.

(3) An investigation under this part may include any act the CPSC takes to verify the accuracy, veracity, and/or completeness of information received in connection with an application for acceptance of accreditation, a submission alleging grounds for an adverse action, or any other information received by the CPSC that relates to a third party conformity assessment body's ability to become or remain a CPSC-accepted third party conformity assessment body.

(4) The CPSC will begin an investigation under this part by providing written notice, which may be electronic, to the third party conformity assessment body. The notice will inform the third party conformity assessment body that the CPSC has received information sufficient to warrant an investigation, and it will describe the information received by the CPSC and the CPSC's investigative process. The notice also will inform the third party conformity assessment body that failure to cooperate with a CPSC investigation is grounds for suspension under ยง 1112.45.

(5) The notice sent by the CPSC under ยง 1112.35(b)(3) informing the third party conformity assessment body that it must submit a CPSC Form 223 for audit purposes, which may be electronic, constitutes notice of investigation for purposes of this section. The examination portion of an audit under ยง 1112.33(c) constitutes an investigation for purposes of this section.
