
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1112 - REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO THIRD PARTY CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT BODIES
##### Subpart D - Adverse Actions: Types, Grounds, Allegations, Procedural Requirements, and Publication
###### ยง 1112.51 What are the procedures relevant to adverse actions?
####### Proceeding.

(d)(1) In any proceeding to withdraw the CPSC's acceptance of a third party conformity assessment body's accreditation, the CPSC will consider the gravity of the third party conformity assessment body's action or failure to act, including:

(i) Whether the action or failure to act resulted in injury, death, or the risk of injury or death;

(ii) Whether the action or failure to act constitutes an isolated incident or represents a pattern or practice; and

(iii) Whether and when the third party conformity assessment body initiated remedial action.

(2) In all cases, the CPSC will review and take under advisement the response provided by the third party conformity assessment body. Except for cases under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the CPSC will determine what action is appropriate under the circumstances.

(3) If, after reviewing and taking under advisement the response provided by a CPSC-accepted firewalled third party conformity assessment body, the CPSC staff concludes that suspension or withdrawal of CPSC acceptance of accreditation is appropriate, staff will transmit its recommendation to the Commission for consideration. Any suspension or withdrawal of CPSC acceptance of accreditation of a firewalled third party conformity assessment body (including immediate and temporary withdrawal under ยง 1112.53) will be by order of the Commission.

(4) The CPSC may withdraw its acceptance of the accreditation of a third party conformity assessment body on a permanent or temporary basis.

(5) If the CPSC withdraws its acceptance of the accreditation of a third party conformity assessment body, the CPSC may establish conditions for the reacceptance of the accreditation of the third party conformity assessment body, under section 14(e)(2)(B)(ii) of the CPSA. Any such conditions would be related to the reason(s) for the withdrawal.
