
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1115 - SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT HAZARD REPORTS
##### Subpart A - General Interpretation
###### ยง 1115.12 Information which should be reported; evaluating substantial product hazard.
####### Information which should be studied and evaluated.

(f)Paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section are examples of information which a subject firm should study and evaluate in order to determine whether it is obligated to report under section 15(b) of the CPSA. Such information may include information that a firm has obtained, or reasonably should have obtained in accordance with ยง 1115.11, about product use, experience, performance, design, or manufacture outside the United States that is relevant to products sold or distributed in the United States. All information should be evaluated to determine whether it suggests the existence of a noncompliance, a defect, or an unreasonable risk of serious injury or death:

(1) Information about engineering, quality control, or production data.

(2) Information about safety-related production or design change(s).

(3) Product liability suits and/or claims for personal injury or damage.

(4) Information from an independent testing laboratory.

(5) Complaints from a consumer or consumer group.

(6) Information received from the Commission or other governmental agency.

(7) Information received from other firms, including requests to return a product or for replacement or credit. This includes both requests made by distributors and retailers to the manufacturer and requests from the manufacturer that products be returned.
