
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1115 - SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT HAZARD REPORTS
##### Subpart A - General Interpretation
###### ยง 1115.13 Content and form of reports; delegations of authority.
####### Initial report.

(c)Immediately after a subject firm has obtained information which reasonably supports the conclusion that a product fails to comply with an applicable consumer product safety rule or a voluntary standard, contains a defecat which could create a substantial risk of serious injury or death, the subject firm should provide the Division of Corrective Actions, Office of Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207 (telephone: 301-504-0608), with an initial report containing the information listed in paragraphs (c) (1) through (6) of this section. This initial report may be made by any means, but if it is not in writing, it should be confirmed in writing within 48 hours of the initial report. (See ยง 1115.14 for time computations.) The initial report should contain, insofar as is reasonably available and/or applicable:

(1) An identification and description of the product.

(2) The name and address of the manufacturer (or importer) or, if the manufacturer or importer is not known, the names and addresses of all known distributors and retailers of the product.

(3) The nature and extent of the possible defect, the failure to comply, or the risk.

(4) The nature and extent of the injury or risk of injury associated with the product.

(5) The name and address of the person informing the Commission.

(6) To the extent such information is then reasonably available, the data specified in ยง 1115.13(d).
