
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1115 - SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT HAZARD REPORTS
##### Subpart B - Remedial Actions and Sanctions
###### ยง 1115.20 Voluntary remedial actions.
####### Corrective action plans.

(a)A corrective action plan is a document, signed by a subject firm, which sets forth the remedial action which the firm will voluntarily undertake to protect the public, but which has no legally binding effect. The Commission reserves the right to seek broader corrective action if it becomes aware of new facts or if the corrective action plan does not sufficiently protect the public.

(1) Corrective action plans shall include, as appropriate:

(i) A statement of the nature of the alleged hazard associated with the product, including the nature of the alleged defect or noncompliance and type(s) of injury or potential injury presented.

(ii) A detailed statement of the means to be employed to notify the public of the alleged product hazard (e.g., letter, press release, advertising), including an identification of the classes of persons who will receive such notice and a copy or copies of the notice or notices to be used.

(iii) A specification of model number and/or other appropriate descriptions of the product.

(iv) Any necessary instructions regarding use or handling of the product pending correction.

(v) An explanation of the specific cause of the alleged substantial product hazard, if known.

(vi) A statement of the corrective action which will be or has been taken to eliminate the alleged substantial product hazard. The firm should indicate whether it is repairing or replacing the product or refunding its purchase price. If products are to be returned to a subject firm, the corrective action plan should indicate their disposition (e.g., reworked, destroyed, returned to foreign manufacturer). Samples of replacement products and relevant drawings and test data for repairs or replacements should be available.

(vii) A statement of the steps that will be, or have been, taken to reasonably prevent recurrence of the alleged substantial product hazard in the future.

(viii) A statement of the action which will be undertaken to correct product units in the distribution chain, including a timetable and specific information about the number and location of such units.

(ix) The signatures of representatives of the subject firm.

(x) An acknowledgment by the subject firm that the Commission may monitor the corrective action and that the firm will furnish necessary information, including customer lists.

(xi) An agreement that the Commission may publicize the terms of the plan to the extent necessary to inform the public of the nature and extent of the alleged substantial product hazard and of the actions being undertaken to correct the alleged hazard presented.

(xii) Additional points of agreement, as appropriate.

(xiii) If desired by the subject firm, the following statement or its equivalent: "The submission of this corrective action plan does not constitute an admission by (the subject firm) that either reportable information or a substantial product hazard exists."

(xiv) An acknowledgment that the corrective action plan becomes effective only upon its final acceptance by the Commission.

(2) In determining whether to recommend to the Commission acceptance of a corrective action plan, the staff shall consider favorably both the promptness of the subject firm's reporting and any remedial actions taken by the subject firm in the interest of public safety. The staff also shall consider, insofar as possible, prior involvement by the subject firm in corrective action plans and Commission orders if such involvement bears on the likelihood that the firm will comply fully with the terms of the corrective action plan.

(3) Upon receipt of a corrective action plan and staff recommendation, the Commission may:

(i) Approve the plan;

(ii) Reject the plan and issue a complaint (in which case an administrative and/or judicial proceeding will be commenced); or

(iii) Take any other action necessary to insure that the plan is adequate.

(4) When time permits and where practicable in the interest of protecting the public, a summary of the plan shall be published in the Commission's Public Calendar. Those portions of the plan that are not restricted will be made available to the public in the Commission's public reading room as much in advance of the Commission meeting as practicable. Any interested person wishing to comment on the plan must file a Notice of Intent to Comment at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of the Commission meeting during which the plan will be discussed. If no notices of intent are received, the Commission may take final action on the plan. If such notice is received within the time limits detailed above, the plan will, if practicable, be docketed for the following week's agenda. All comments must be in writing, and final written comments must be submitted at least forty-eight (48) hours before that session.
