
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1115 - SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT HAZARD REPORTS
##### Subpart B - Remedial Actions and Sanctions
###### ยง 1115.20 Voluntary remedial actions.
####### Consent order agreements under section 15 of CPSA.

(b)The consent order agreement (agreement) is a document executed by a subject firm (Consenting Party) and a Commission staff representative which incorporates both a proposed complaint setting forth the staff's charges and a proposed order by which such charges are resolved.

(1) Consent order agreements shall include, as appropriate:

(i) An admission of all jurisdictional facts by the Consenting Party.

(ii) A waiver of any rights to an administrative or judicial hearing and of any other procedural steps, including any rights to seek judicial review or otherwise challenge or contest the validity of the Commission's Order.

(iii) A statement that the agreement is in settlement of the staff's charges.

(iv) A statement that the Commission's Order is issued under section 15 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2064) and that a violation is a prohibited act within the meaning of section 19(a)(5) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)(5)) and may subject a violator to civil and/or criminal penalties under sections 20 and 21 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2069 and 2070).

(v) An acknowledgment that the Commission reserves its right to seek sanctions for any violations of the reporting obligations of section 15(b) of CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2064(b)) and its right to take other appropriate legal action.

(vi) An acknowledgment that the agreement becomes effective only upon its final acceptance by the Commission and its service upon the Consenting Party.

(vii) An acknowledgment that the Commission may disclose terms of the consent order agreement to the public.

(viii) A listing of the acts or practices from which the Consenting Party will refrain.

(ix) A statement that the Consenting Party shall perform certain acts and practices pursuant to the agreement.

(x) An acknowledgment that any interested person may bring an action pursuant to section 24 of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2073) in any U.S. district court for the district in which the Consenting Party is found or transacts business to enforce the order and to obtain appropriate injunctive relief.

(xi) A description of the alleged substantial product hazard.

(xii) If desired by the Consenting Party, the following statement or its equivalent: "The signing of this consent order agreement does not constitute an admission by (the Consenting Party) that either reportable information or a substantial product hazard exists."

(xiii) The elements of a corrective action plan as set forth in ยง 1115.20(a).

(2) At any time in the course of an investigation, the staff may propose to a subject firm which is being investigated that some or all of the allegations be resolved by a consent order agreement. Additionally, such a proposal may be made to the staff by a subject firm.

(3) Upon receiving an executed agreement, the Commission may:

(i) Provisionally accept it;

(ii) Reject it and issue a complaint (in which case an administrative and/or judicial proceeding will be commenced); or

(iii) Take such other action as it may deem appropriate.

(4) If the consent order agreement is provisionally accepted, the Commission shall place the agreement on the public record and shall announce provisional acceptance of the agreement in the Commission's public calendar and in theAny interested person may request the Commission not to accept the agreement by filing a written request in the Office of the Secretary. Such written request must be received in the Office of the Secretary no later than the close of business of the fifteenth (15th) calendar day following the date of announcement in the

(5) If the Commission does not receive any requests not to accept the agreement within the time period specified above, the consent order agreement shall be deemed finally accepted by the Commission on the twentieth (20th) calendar day after the date of announcement in theunless the Commission determines otherwise. However, if the Commission does receive a request not to accept the consent order agreement, then it will consider such request and vote on the acceptability of such agreement or the desirability of further action. After the consent order agreement is finally accepted, the Commission may then issue its complaint and order in such form as the circumstances may require. The order is a final order in disposition of the proceeding and is effective immediately upon its service upon the Consenting Party pursuant to the Commission's Rules of Practice for Adjudicative Proceedings (16 CFR part 1025). The Consenting Party shall thereafter be bound by and take immediate action in accordance with such final order.

(6) If the Commission does not accept the consent order agreement on a final basis, it shall so notify the Consenting Party. Such notification constitutes withdrawal of the Commission's provisional acceptance unless the Commission orders otherwise. The Commission then may:

(i) Issue a complaint, in which case an administrative and/or judicial proceeding will be commenced;

(ii) Order further investigation; or

(iii) Take such other action as it may deem appropriate.
