
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1116 - REPORTS SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 37 OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### ยง 1116.7 Scope of section 37 and its relationship to section 15(b) of the CPSA.

(a) According to the legislative history of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 1990, the purpose of section 37 is to increase the reporting of information to the Commission that will assist it in carrying out its responsibilities.

(b) Section 37(c)(1) requires a manufacturer or importer (hereinafter "manufacturer") to include in a section 37 report a statement as to whether a civil action that is the subject of the report alleged death or grievous bodily injury. Furthermore, under section 37(c)(2), a manufacturer may specifically deny that the information it submits pursuant to section 37 reasonably supports the conclusion that its consumer product caused a death or grievous bodily injury, and may also include any additional information that it chooses to provide. In view of the foregoing, the reporting obligation is not limited to those cases in which a product has been adjudicated as the cause of death or grievous injury or to those settled or adjudicated cases in which the manufacturer has satisfied itself that the product was the cause of such trauma. Rather, when the specific injury alleged by the plaintiff meets the definition of "grievous bodily injury" contained in ยง 1116.2(b) of this part, the lawsuit falls within the scope of section 37 after settlement or adjudication. The manufacturer's opinion as to the validity of the allegation is irrelevant for reporting purposes. The category of injury alleged may be clear from the face of an original or amended complaint in a case or may reasonably be determined during pre-complaint investigation, post-complaint discovery, or informal settlement negotiation. Conclusory language in a complaint that the plaintiff suffered grievous bodily injury without further elaboration raises a presumption that the injury falls within one of the statutory categories, but is insufficient in itself to bring the suit within the ambit of the statute, unless the defendant manufacturer elects to settle such a matter without any investigation of the underlying facts. A case alleging the occurrence of grievous bodily injury in which a litigated verdict contains express findings that the injury suffered by the plaintiff did not meet the statutory criteria is also not reportable. Should a manufacturer believe that its product is wrongly implicated in an action, the statute expressly incorporates the mechanism for the manufacturer to communicate that belief to the Commission by denying in the report the involvement of the product or that the injury in fact suffered by the plaintiff was not grievous bodily injury, despite the plaintiff's allegations to the contrary. In addition, the statute imposes stringent confidentiality requirements on the disclosure by the Commission or the Department of Justice of information submitted pursuant to sections 37(c)(1) and 37(c)(2)(A). Moreover, it specifies that the reporting of a civil action shall not constitute an admission of liability under any statute or common law or under the relevant provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act. In view of these safeguards, the reporting of lawsuits alleging the occurrence of death or grievous injury should have little adverse effect on manufacturers.

(c) Section 37 applies to judgments and "final settlements". Accordingly, the date on which a civil action is filed or the date on which the product that is the subject of such an action was manufactured is irrelevant to the obligation to report. A settlement is final upon the entry by a court of an order disposing of a civil action with respect to the manufacturer of the product that is the subject of the action, even through the case may continue with respect to other defendants.

(d) A judgment becomes reportable upon the entry of a final order by the trial court disposing of the matter in favor of the plaintiff and from which an appeal lies. Because section 37(c)(2) specifies that a reporting manufacturer may include a statement that a judgment in favor of a plaintiff is under appeal or is expected to be appealed, Congress clearly intended section 37 to apply prior to the exhaustion of or even the initiation of action to seek appellate remedies.

(e) No language in section 37 limits the reporting obligation to those litigated cases in which the plaintiff prevails completely. Therefore, if a court enters a partial judgment in favor of the plaintiff, the judgment is reportable, unless it is unrelated to the product that is the subject of the suit. For example, if a manufacturer's product is exonerated during a suit, but liability is assessed against another defendant, the manufacturer need not report under section 37.

(f)(1) Section 37 applies to civil actions that allege the involvement of a particular model of a consumer product in death or grievous bodily injury. Section 3(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)) defines a "consumer product" as any article, or component part thereof, produced or distributed for sale to a consumer for use in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise, or for the personal use, consumption, or enjoyment of a consumer in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise. The term "consumer product" does not include any article which is not customarily produced or distributed for sale to, or use or consumption by, or enjoyment of, a consumer.

(2) Since section 37 focuses on consumer products, it is the responsibility of the manufacturer of a product implicated in a civil action to determine whether the production or distribution of the product satisfies the statutory criteria of section 3(a). If it does, the action falls within the ambit of section 37. True industrial products are beyond the scope of section 37. However, if a lawsuit is based on an allegation of injury involving a consumer product, that suit falls within the scope of section 37, even though the injury may have occurred during the use of the product in employment. By the same token, occupational injuries arising during the fabrication of a consumer product are not reportable if the entity involved in the injury is not a consumer product at the time the injury occurs. In determining whether a product meets the statutory definition, manufacturers may wish to consult the relevant case law and the advisory opinions issued by the Commission's Office of the General Counsel. The unique circumstances surrounding litigation involving asbestos-containing products warrant one exception to this analysis. The Commission, as a matter of agency discretion, will require manufacturers of such products to report under section 37 only those lawsuits that allege the occurrence of death or grievous bodily injury as the result of exposure to asbestos from a particular model of a consumer product purchased by a consumer for personal use. Such lawsuits would include not only injury to the purchaser, but also to other consumers including family, subsequent property owners, and visitors. The Commission may consider granting similar relief to manufacturers of other products that present a risk of chronic injury similar to that presented by asbestos. Any such request must contain documented evidence demonstrating that compliance with the reporting requirements will be unduly burdensome and will be unlikely to produce information that will assist the Commission in carrying out its obligations under the statutes it administers.
