
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1116 - REPORTS SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 37 OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### ยง 1116.7 Scope of section 37 and its relationship to section 15(b) of the CPSA.
###### Relationship of Section 37 to Section 15 of the CPSA.

(h)(1) Section 37 plays a complementary role to the reporting requirements of section 15(b) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2064(b)). Section 15(b) establishes a substantial obligation for firms to review information as it becomes available to determine whether an obligation to report exists. Accordingly, the responsibility to report under section 15(b) may arise long before enough lawsuits involving a product are resolved to create the obligation to report under section 37. The enactment of section 15(b)(3) in the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 1990 reinforces this expectation. Under this amendment, manufacturers must report to the Commission when they obtain information that reasonably supports the conclusion that a product creates an unreasonable risk of serious injury or death. Previously, the reporting obligation for unregulated products only arose when available information indicated that the product in question was defective and created a substantial product hazard because of the pattern of the defect, the severity of the risk of injury, the number of products distributed in commerce, etc. The effect of the 1990 amendment is discussed in detail in the Commission's interpretative rule relating to the reporting of substantial product hazards at 16 CFR part 1115.

(2) The new substantive reporting requirements of section 15(b)(3) support the conclusion that Congress intended section 37 to capture product-related accident information that has not been reported under section 15(b). Between the time a firm learns of an incident or problem involving a product that raises safety-related concerns and the time that a lawsuit involving that product is resolved by settlement or adjudication, the firm generally has numerous opportunities to evaluate whether a section 15 report is appropriate. Such evaluation might be appropriate, for example, after an analysis of product returns, the receipt of an insurance investigator's report, a physical examination of the product, the interview or deposition of an injured party or an eyewitness to the event that gave rise to the lawsuit, or even preparation of the firm's responses to plaintiff's discovery requests. Even if a manufacturer does not believe that a report is required prior to the resolution of a single lawsuit, an obligation to investigate whether a report is appropriate may arise if, for example, a verdict in favor of the plaintiff raises the issue of whether the product in question creates an unreasonable risk of death or serious injury.

(3) In contrast, the application of section 37 does not involve the discretionary judgment and subjective analyses of hazard and causation associated with section 15 reports. Once the statutory criteria of three settled or adjudicated civil actions alleging grievous injury or death in a two year period are met, the obligation to report under section 37 is automatic. For this reason, the Commission regards section 37 as a "safety net" to surface product hazards that remain unreported either intentionally or by inadvertence. The provisions in the law limiting such reports to cases in which three or more lawsuits alleging grievous injury or death are settled or adjudicated in favor of plaintiffs during a two year period provide assurance that the product involved presents a sufficiently grave risk of injury to warrant consideration by the Commission. Indeed, once the obligation to report under section 37 arises, the obligation to file a section 15 report concurrently may exist if the information available to the manufacturer meets the criteria established in section 15(b) for reporting.

(4) Section 37 contains no specific record keeping requirements. However, to track and catalog lawsuits to determine whether they are reportable, prudent manufacturers will develop and maintain information systems to index and retain lawsuit data. In the absence of a prior section 15 report, once such systems are in place, such manufacturers will be in a position to perform a two-fold analysis to determine whether the information contained in such systems is reportable under either section 15(b) or 37. A manufacturer might conclude, for example, that the differences between products that are the subject of different lawsuits make them different models or that the type of injury alleged in one or more of the suits is not grievous bodily injury. Based on this analysis, the manufacturer might also conclude that the suits are thus not reportable under section 37. However, a reporting obligation under section 15 may exist in any event if the same information reasonably supports the conclusion that the product(s) contain a defect which could create a substantial product hazard or create an unreasonable risk of serious injury or death.
