
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1118 - INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND INQUIRIES UNDER THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Investigations, Inspections, and Inquiries
###### ยง 1118.9 Motions to limit or quash subpoenas and general or special orders and delegation to modify terms for compliance.

(a) The Commission hereby delegates to the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement; the Solicitor; the Directors of Divisions of Enforcement, Product Defect Correction, and Regulatory Management; and the General Counsel the authority:

(1) To negotiate and approve the terms of satisfactory compliance with subpoenas and general or special orders;

(2) To impose conditions upon compliance with such compulsory processes; and

(3) To extend the time for compliance and the time for filing motions to limit or quash.

(b) The person or firm served with a subpoena or general or special order may file a motion to limit or quash the subpoena or order. Any motion to limit or quash shall set forth the reasons why the subpoena or order should be limited or quashed and may be accompanied by memoranda, affidavits, or other documents submitted in support of the motion. The motion must be received in the Office of the Secretary of the Commission within 10 calendar days of receipt of the subpoena or order unless:

(1) The subpoena or order provides for a different time; or

(2) The Commission, for good cause shown, grants an extension of time to file a motion.

(c) Upon receipt of a motion to limit or quash, the Office of the Secretary shall immediately notify and transmit a copy to the appropriate staff member. Unless a different period of time is specified in the subpoena or order, the staff shall file an answer with the Office of the Secretary within 10 calendar days after receipt of the motion. A copy of the answer shall be served upon the moving party or the counsel of the moving party. No reply to the answer will be permitted.

(d) All motions to limit or quash shall be ruled upon by the Commission. The Office of the Secretary shall serve the decision on a motion to limit or quash upon the moving party or the counsel for the moving party and shall furnish a copy of the decision to the appropriate staff member. The Commission's decision is a final decision. Motions for reconsideration will not be received.
