
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1120 - SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT HAZARD LIST
##### § 1120.3 Products deemed to be substantial product hazards.
###### see

(b)(1) Children's upper outerwear in sizes 2T to 16 or the equivalent, and having one or more drawstrings, that is subject to, but not in conformance with, the requirements of ASTM F 1816-97 (incorporated by reference,§ 1120.4).

(2) At its option, the Commission may use one or more of the following methods to determine what sizes of children's upper outerwear are equivalent to sizes 2T to 16:

(i) Garments in girls' size Large (L) and boys' size Large (L) are equivalent to girls' or boys' size 12, respectively. Garments in girls' and boys' sizes smaller than Large (L), including Extra-Small (XS), Small (S), and Medium (M), are equivalent to sizes smaller than size 12. The fact that an item of children's upper outerwear with a hood and neck drawstring is labeled as being larger than a size Large (L) does not necessarily mean that the item is not equivalent to a size in the range of 2T to 12.

(ii) Garments in girls' size Extra-Large (XL) and boys' size Extra-Large (XL) are equivalent to size 16. The fact that an item of children's upper outerwear with a waist or bottom drawstring is labeled as being larger than size Extra-Large (XL) does not necessarily mean that the item is not equivalent to a size in the range of 2T to 16.

(iii) In cases where garment labels give a range of sizes, if the range includes any size that is subject to a requirement in ASTM F 1816-97, the garment will be considered subject, even if other sizes in the stated range, taken alone, would not be subject to the requirement. For example, a coat sized 12 through 14 remains subject to the prohibition of hood and neck area drawstrings, even though this requirement of ASTM F 1816-97 only applies to garments up to size 12. A coat size 13 through 15 would not be considered within the scope of ASTM F 1816-97's prohibition of neck and hood drawstrings, but would be subject to the requirements for waist or bottom drawstrings.

(iv) To fall within the scope of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (2)(iii) of this section, a garment need not state anywhere on it, or on its tags, labels, package, or any other materials accompanying it, the term "girls," the term "boys," or whether the garment is designed or intended for girls or boys.

(v) The Commission may use any other evidence that would tend to show that an item of children's upper outerwear is a size that is equivalent to sizes 2T to 16.

(c) Seasonal and decorative lighting products that lack one or more of the following characteristics in conformance with requirements in sections 6, 7, 15, 71, 79, and SB15 of UL 588 (incorporated by reference, see § 1120.4):

(1) Minimum wire size requirements in section 6 of UL 588;

(2) Sufficient strain relief requirements in sections 15, 71, 79, and SB15 of UL 588; or

(3) Overcurrent protection requirements in section 7 of UL 588.

(d) Extension cords that lack one or more of the following specified characteristics in conformance with requirements in sections 2, 9, 16, 19, 20, 21, 26, 30, 31, 32, 84, and 105 of UL 817 (incorporated by reference, see § 1120.4):

(1) Minimum wire size requirement in sections 2, 20, 21, and 30 of UL 817;

(2) Sufficient strain relief requirement in sections 20, 30, and 84 of UL 817;

(3) Proper polarization requirement in sections 9, 19, 20, 30, 31, and 32 of UL 817;

(4) Proper continuity requirement in sections 16, 20, 30, and 105 of UL 817;

(5) Outlet cover requirement (for indoor 2-wire parallel extension cords with polarized parallel-blade and -slot fittings) in sections 20 and 26 of UL 817; or

(6) Jacketed cord requirement (for outdoor use extension cords) in section 30 of UL 817.

(e) Stock window coverings that fail to comply with one or more of the following requirements of ANSI/WCMA A100.1-2018 (incorporated by reference; see § 1120.4):

(1) Operating cord requirements in section 4.3.1: section 4.3.1.1 (cordless operating system), 4.3.1.2 (short static or access cord), or 4.3.1.3 (inaccessible operating cord);

(2) Inner cord requirements in sections 4.5, 6.3, 6.7, and Appendices C and D; and

(3) On-product manufacturer label requirement in section 5.3.

(f) Custom window coverings that fail to comply with one or more of the following requirements of ANSI/WCMA A100.1-2018 (incorporated by reference; see § 1120.4):

(1) Inner cord requirements in sections 4.5, 6.3, 6.7, and Appendices C and D; and

(2) On-product manufacturer label in section 5.3.
