
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 3 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart E - Hearings
###### ยง 3.44 Record.
####### Closing of the hearing record.
######## In camera treatment of material.,in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,H.P. Hood & Sons, Inc.,see also Bristol-Myers Co.,General Foods Corp.,in camera,in camera,in camera

(b)A party or third party may obtaintreatment for material, or portions thereof, offered into evidence only by motion to the Administrative Law Judge. Parties who seek to use material obtained from a third party subject to confidentiality restrictions must demonstrate that the third party has been given at least 10 days notice of the proposed use of such material. Each such motion must include an attachment containing a copy of each page of the document in question on whichor otherwise confidential excerpts appear. The Administrative Law Judge shall order that such material, whether admitted or rejected, be placedonly after finding that its public disclosure will likely result in a clearly defined, serious injury to the person, partnership, or corporation requestingtreatment or after finding that the material constitutes sensitive personal information. "Sensitive personal information" shall include, but shall not be limited to, an individual's Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, financial account number, credit card or debit card number, driver's license number, state-issued identification number, passport number, date of birth (other than year), and any sensitive health information identifiable by individual, such as an individual's medical records. For material other than sensitive personal information, a finding that public disclosure will likely result in a clearly defined, serious injury shall be based on the standard articulated in, 58 F.T.C. 1184, 1188 (1961);, 90 F.T.C. 455, 456 (1977), which established a three-part test that was modified by, 95 F.T.C. 352, 355 (1980). The party submitting material for whichtreatment is sought must provide, for each piece of such evidence and affixed to such evidence, the name and address of any person who should be notified in the event that the Commission intends to discloseinformation in a final decision. No material, or portion thereof, offered into evidence, whether admitted or rejected, may be withheld from the public record unless it falls within the scope of an order issued in accordance with this section, stating the date on whichtreatment will expire, and including:

(1) A description of the material;
