
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1200 - DEFINITION OF CHILDREN'S PRODUCT UNDER THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### ยง 1200.2 Definition of children's product.
###### Definition of "Children's Product"

(a)-(1) Under section 3(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA), a children's product means a consumer product designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger. The term "designed or intended primarily" applies to those consumer products mainly for children 12 years old or younger. Whether a product is primarily intended for children 12 years of age or younger is determined by considering the four specified statutory factors. These factors are:

(i) A statement by a manufacturer about the intended use of such product, including a label on such product if such statement is reasonable.

(ii) Whether the product is represented in its packaging, display, promotion, or advertising as appropriate for use by children 12 years of age or younger.

(iii) Whether the product is commonly recognized by consumers as being intended for use by a child 12 years of age or younger.

(iv) The Age Determination Guidelines issued by the Commission staff in September 2002 and any successor to such guidelines.

(2) The examples discussed herein may also be illustrative in making such determinations; however, the determination of whether a product meets the definition of a children's product depends on factual information that may be unique to each product and, therefore, would need to be made on a case-by-case basis. The term "for use" by children 12 years or younger generally means that children will physically interact with such products based on the reasonably foreseeable use of such product. Toys and articles that are subject to the small parts regulations at 16 CFR Part 1501 and in ASTM F963 would fall within the definition of children's product since they are intended for children 12 years of age or younger. Toys and other articles intended for children up to 96 months (8 years old) that are subject to the requirements at 16 CFR 1500.48 through 1500.49 and 16 CFR 1500.50 through 1500.53 would similarly fall within the definition of children's product given their age grading for these other regulations. Therefore, a manufacturer could reasonably conclude on the basis of the age grading for these other regulations that its product also must comply with all requirements applicable to children's products including, but not limited to, those under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, ASTM F963, "Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Toy Safety," and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008.
