
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1200 - DEFINITION OF CHILDREN'S PRODUCT UNDER THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### ยง 1200.2 Definition of children's product.
###### Factors Considered

(c)-To determine whether a consumer product is primarily intended for a child 12 years of age or younger the four specified statutory factors must be considered together as a whole. The following four factors must be considered:

(1) A statement by a manufacturer about the intended use of such product, including a label on such product if such statement is reasonable. A manufacturer's statement about the product's intended use, including the product's label, should be reasonably consistent with the expected use patterns for a product. A manufacturer's statement that the product is not intended for children does not preclude a product from being regulated as a children's product if the primary appeal of the product is to children 12 years of age or younger, as indicated, for example, by decorations or embellishments that invite use by the child, being sized for a child or being marketed to appeal primarily to children. Similarly, a label indicating that a product is for ages 9 and up does not necessarily make it a children's product if it is a general use product. Such a label may recommend 9 years old as the earliest age for a prospective user, but may or may not indicate the age for which the product is primarily intended. The manufacturer's label, in and of itself, is not considered to be determinative.

(2) Whether the product is represented in its packaging, display, promotion, or advertising as appropriate for use by children 12 years of age or younger.

(i) These representations may be express or implied. For example, advertising by the manufacturer expressly declaring that the product is intended for children 12 years of age or younger will support a determination that a product is a children's product. While, for example advertising by the manufacturer showing children 12 years of age or younger using the product may support a determination that the product is a children's product. These representations may be found in packaging, text, illustrations and/or photographs depicting consumers using the product, instructions, assembly manuals, or advertising media used to market the product.

(ii) The product's physical location near, or visual association with, children's products may be a factor in making an age determination, but is not determinative. For example, a product displayed in a children's toy section of a store may support a determination that the product is a children's product. However, where that same product is also sold in department stores and marketed for general use, further evaluation would be necessary. The Commission recognizes that manufacturers do not necessarily control where a product will be placed in a retail establishment and such lack of control will be considered. The Commission evaluates products more broadly than on a shelf-by-shelf or store-by-store basis.

(iii) The product's association or marketing in conjunction with nonchildren's products may not be determinative as to whether the product is a children's product. For example, packaging and selling a stuffed animal with a candle would not preclude a determination that the stuffed animal is a children's product since stuffed animals are commonly recognized as being primarily intended for children.

(3) Whether the product is commonly recognized by consumers as being intended for use by children 12 years of age or younger. Consumer perception of the product's use by children, including its reasonably foreseeable use, will be evaluated. Sales data, market analyses, focus group testing, and other marketing studies may help support an analysis regarding this factor.

(i) Features and Characteristics-additional considerations that may help distinguish children's products from nonchildren's products include:

(A) Small sizes that would not be comfortable for the average adult;

(B) Exaggerated features (large buttons, bright indicators) that simplify the product's use;

(C) Safety features that are not found on similar products intended for adults;

(D) Colors commonly associated with childhood (pinks, blues, bright primary colors);

(E) Decorative motifs commonly associated with childhood (such as animals, insects, small vehicles, alphabets, dolls, clowns, and puppets);

(F) Features that do not enhance the product's utility (such as cartoons) but contribute to its attractiveness to children 12 years of age or younger; and
