
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1200 - DEFINITION OF CHILDREN'S PRODUCT UNDER THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT
##### ยง 1200.2 Definition of children's product.
###### Examples

(d)-To help manufacturers understand what constitutes a children's product under the CPSA, the following additional examples regarding specific product categories are offered:

(1) Furnishings and Fixtures-General home furnishings and fixtures (including, but not limited to: Rocking chairs, shelving units, televisions, digital music players, ceiling fans, humidifiers, air purifiers, window curtains, tissue boxes, rugs, carpets, lamps, clothing hooks and racks) that often are found in children's rooms or schools would not be considered children's products unless they are decorated or embellished with a childish theme and invite use by a child 12 years of age or younger, are sized for a child, or are marketed to appeal primarily to children. Examples of home or school furnishings that are designed or intended primarily for use by children and considered children's products include: Infant tubs, bath seats, small bean bag chairs with childish decorations, beds with children's themes, child-sized desks, and child-sized chairs. Decorative items, such as holiday decorations and household seasonal items that are intended only for display, with which children are not likely to interact, are generally not considered children's products, since they are intended to be used by adults.

(2) Collectibles-Adult collectibles may be distinguished from children's collectibles by themes that are inappropriate for children 12 years of age or younger, have features that preclude use by children during play, such as high cost, limited production, fragile features, display features (such as hooks or pedestals), and are not marketed alongside children's products (for example, in a children's department) in ways that make them indistinguishable from children's products. For example, collectible plush bears have high cost, are highly detailed, with fragile accessories, display cases, and platforms on which to pose and hold the bears. Children's bears have lower costs and simple accessories that can be handled without fear of damage to the product. Another example of collectible items includes model railways and trains made for hobbyists.

(3) Jewelry-Jewelry intended for children is generally sized, themed, and marketed to children. The following characteristics may cause a piece of jewelry to be considered a children's product: Size; very low cost; play value; childish themes on the jewelry; sale with children's products (such as a child's dress); sale with a child's book, a toy, or party favors; sale with children's cereal or snacks; sale at an entertainment or educational event attended primarily by children; sale in a store that contains mostly children's products; and sale in a vending machine. In addition, many aspects of an item's design and marketing are considered when determining the age of consumers for whom the product is intended and will be purchased including: Advertising; promotional materials; packaging graphics and text; dexterity requirements for wearing; appearance (coloring, textures, materials, design themes, licensing, and level of realism); and cost. These characteristics will help jewelry manufacturers and consumers determine whether a particular piece of jewelry is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger.

(4) DVDs, Video Games, and Computer Products-Most computer products and electronic media, such as CDs, DVDs, and video games, are considered general use products. However, CDs and DVDs with encoded content that is intended for and marketed to children, such as children's movies, games, or educational software may be determined to be children's products. CPSC staff may consider ratings given by entertainment industries and software rating systems when making an age determination. In addition, electronic media players and devices that are embellished or decorated with childish themes that are intended to attract children 12 years of age or younger, are sized for children, or are marketed to appeal primarily to children, are not likely to fall under the general use category where children 12 years or younger likely would be the primary users of such devices. However, electronic devices such as CD players, DVD players, game consoles, book readers, digital media players, cell phones, digital assistant communication devices, and accessories to such devices that are intended mainly for children older than 12 years of age or adults are products for general use.

(5) Art Materials-Materials sized, decorated, and marketed to children 12 years of age or younger, such as crayons, finger paints, and modeling dough, would be considered children's products. Crafting kits and supplies that are not specifically marketed to children 12 years of age or younger likely would be considered products intended for general use. Consideration of the marketing and labeling of raw materials and art tools (such as modeling clay, paint, and paint brushes) may often be given high priority in an age determination because the appeal and utility of these raw materials has such a wide audience. If a distributor or retailer sells or rents a general use product in bulk (such as a raw art materials or art tools) through distribution channels that target children 12 years of age or younger in educational settings, such as schools, summer camps, or child care facilities, this type of a distribution strategy would not necessarily convert a general use product into a children's product. However, if the product is packaged in such a manner that either expressly states or implies with graphics, themes, labeling, or instructions that the product is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger, then it may be considered a children's product if the required consideration of all four statutory factors supports that determination. The requirements of the Labeling of Hazardous Art Materials Act are similar to the labeling requirements of the FHSA, of which it is a part. Therefore, third party testing to LHAMA is not required. An art material designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger would have to be tested by a third party laboratory to demonstrate compliance with CPSIA, but it would not require third party testing and certification to the LHAMA requirements. For the same reasons, no general conformity certificate is required for general use art materials.

(6) Books-The content of a book can determine its intended audience. Children's books have themes, vocabularies, illustrations, and covers that match the interests and cognitive capabilities of children 12 years of age or younger. The age guidelines provided by librarians, education professionals, and publishers may be dispositive for determining the intended audience. Some children's books have a wide appeal to the general public, and in those instances, further analysis may be necessary to assess who the primary intended audience is based on consideration of relevant additional factors, such as product design, packaging, marketing, and sales data.

(7) Science Equipment-Microscopes, telescopes, and other scientific equipment that would be used by an adult, as well as a child, are considered general use products. Equipment that is intended by the manufacturer for use primarily by adults, although there may be use by children through such programs, is a general use product. Toy versions of such items are considered children's products. If a distributor or retailer sells or rents a general use product in bulk through distribution channels that target children 12 years of age or younger in educational settings, such as schools or summer camps, this type of a distribution strategy would not necessarily convert a general use product into a children's product. However, if the product is packaged in such a manner that either expressly states or implies with graphics, themes, labeling, or instructions that the product is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger, then it may be considered a children's product if the required consideration of all four statutory factors supports that determination. Products mainly intended for use by the instructor would not be considered children's products. In general, scientific equipment that is specifically sized for children, such as protective gear, eyewear, gloves, or aprons and/or has childish themes or decorations and invites use by a child 12 years of age or younger or is marketed to appeal primarily to children is considered a children's product.

(8) Sporting Goods and Recreational Equipment-Sporting goods that are intended primarily for consumers older than 12 years of age are considered general use items. Sporting equipment, sized for adults, are general use items even though some children 12 years of age or younger will use them. Unless such items are specifically marketed to children 12 years of age or younger, or have extra features that make them more suitable for children 12 years of age or younger than for adults, they would be considered general use products. If children 12 years or younger would mainly use the product because it would be too small or inappropriate for older children to use, then it likely would be considered a children's product. Likewise, recreational equipment, such as roller blades, skateboards, bicycles, camping gear, and fitness equipment are considered general use products unless they are sized to fit children 12 years of age or younger and/or are decorated with childish features by the manufacturer.

(9) Musical Instruments-Musical instruments, including electronically-aided instruments suited for an adult musician, are general use products. Instruments intended primarily for children can be distinguished from adult instruments by their size and marketing themes. The Commission notes that if a distributor or retailer sells or rents in bulk, a general use musical instrument through distribution channels that target children 12 years of age or younger in educational settings, such as schools or summer camps, this type of a distribution strategy would not necessarily convert a general use product into a children's product. However, if the product is packaged in such a manner that either expressly states or implies with graphics, themes, labeling, or instructions that the product is designed or intended primarily for children 12 years of age or younger, then it may be considered a children's product if the required consideration of all four statutory factors supports that determination.
