
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 3 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart E - Hearings
###### ยง 3.44 Record.
####### Closing of the hearing record.
######## in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,In Camera,in camera,in camera,in camera

(3) A statement of the reasons for the date on whichtreatment will expire, except in the case of sensitive personal information, which shall be accorded permanenttreatment unless disclosure or an expiration date is required or provided by law. Formaterial other than sensitive personal information, an expiration date may not be omitted except in unusual circumstances, in which event the order shall state with specificity the reasons why the need for confidentiality of the material, or portion thereof at issue is not likely to decrease over time, and any other reasons why such material is entitled totreatment for an indeterminate period. If anorder is silent as to duration, without explanation, then it will expire 3 years after its date of issuance. Material subject to anorder shall be segregated from the public record and filed in a sealed envelope, or other appropriate container, bearing the title, the docket number of the proceeding, the notation "Record under ยง 3.45," and the date on whichtreatment expires. If the Administrative Law Judge has determined thattreatment should be granted for an indeterminate period, the notation should state that fact. Parties are not required to provide documents subject totreatment, including documents obtained from third parties, to any individual or entity other than the Administrative Law Judge, counsel for other parties, and, during an appeal, the Commission or a federal court.
