
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 3 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADJUDICATIVE PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart E - Hearings
###### ยง 3.44 Record.
####### Closing of the hearing record.
######## When in camera or confidential information is included in briefs and other submissions.,in camera,In Camera",in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera,in camera

(e)If a party includes specific information that has been grantedstatus pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or is subject to confidentiality protections pursuant to a protective order in any document filed in a proceeding under this part, the party shall file 2 versions of the document. A complete version shall be marked "or "Subject to Protective Order," as appropriate, on every page and shall be filed with the Secretary and served by the party on the other parties in accordance with the Commission's rules. Submitters ofor other confidential material should mark any such material in the complete versions of their submissions in a conspicuous matter, such as with highlighting or bracketing. References toor confidential material must be supported by record citations to relevant evidentiary materials and associated Administrative Law Judgeor other confidentiality rulings to confirm thator other confidential treatment is warranted for such material. In addition, the document must include an attachment containing a copy of each page of the document in question on whichor otherwise confidential excerpts appear, and providing the name and address of any person who should be notified of the Commission's intent to disclose in a final decision any of theor otherwise confidential information in the document. Any time period within which these rules allow a party to respond to a document shall run from the date the party is served with the complete version of the document. An expurgated version of the document, marked "Public Record" on every page and omitting theand confidential information and attachment that appear in the complete version, shall be filed with the Secretary within 5 days after the filing of the complete version, unless the Administrative Law Judge or the Commission directs otherwise, and shall be served by the party on the other parties in accordance with the rules in this part. The expurgated version shall indicate any omissions with brackets or ellipses, and its pagination and depiction of text on each page shall be identical to that of theversion.
