
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1203 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR BICYCLE HELMETS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### § 1203.13 Test schedule.

(a) Helmet sample 1 of the set of eight helmets, as designated in Table 1203.13, shall be tested for peripheral vision in accordance with § 1203.14 of this standard.

(b) Helmet samples 1 through 8, as designated in Table 1203.13, shall be conditioned in the ambient, high temperature, low temperature, and water immersion environments as follows: helmets 1 and 5-ambient; helmets 2 and 7-high temperature; helmets 3 and 6-low temperature; and helmets 4 and 8-water immersion.

(c) Testing must begin within 2 minutes after the helmet is removed from the conditioning environment. The helmet shall be returned to the conditioning environment within 3 minutes after it was removed, and shall remain in the conditioning environment for a minimum of 2 minutes before testing is resumed. If the helmet is out of the conditioning environment beyond 3 minutes, testing shall not resume until the helmet has been reconditioned for a period equal to at least 5 minutes for each minute the helmet was out of the conditioning environment beyond the first 3 minutes, or for 4 hours, (whichever reconditioning time is shorter) before testing is resumed.

(d) Prior to being tested for impact attenuation, helmets 1-4 (conditioned in ambient, high temperature, low temperature, and water immersion environments, respectively) shall be tested in accordance with the dynamic retention system strength test at § 1203.16. Helmets 1-4 shall then be tested in accordance with the impact attenuation tests on the flat and hemispherical anvils in accordance with the procedure at § 1203.17. Helmet 5 (ambient-conditioned) shall be tested in accordance with the positional stability tests at § 1203.15 prior to impact testing. Helmets 5-8 shall then be tested in accordance with the impact attenuation tests on the curbstone anvil in accordance with § 1203.17. Table 1203.13 summarizes the test schedule.
