
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1203 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR BICYCLE HELMETS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1203.17 Impact attenuation test.
####### Test Procedure,Instrument system check (precision and accuracy).

(b)-(1)The impact-attenuation test instrumentation shall be checked before and after each series of tests (at least at the beginning and end of each test day) by dropping a spherical impactor onto an elastomeric test medium (MEP). The spherical impactor shall be a 146 mm (5.75 in.) diameter aluminum sphere that is mounted on the ball-arm connector of the drop assembly. The total mass of the spherical-impactor drop assembly shall be 5.0+/-0.1 kg (11.0+/-0.22 lb). The MEP shall be 152 mm (6 in.) in diameter and 25 mm (1 in.) thick, and shall have a durometer of 60+/-2 Shore A. The MEP shall be affixed to the top surface of a flat 6.35 mm (in.) thick aluminum plate. The geometric center of the MEP pad shall be aligned with the center vertical axis of the accelerometer (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section). The impactor shall be dropped onto the MEP at an impact velocity of 5.44 m/s+/-2%. (Typically, this requires a minimum drop height of 1.50 meters (4.9 ft) plus a height adjustment to account for friction losses.) Six impacts, at intervals of 75+/-15 seconds, shall be performed at the beginning and end of the test series (at a minimum at the beginning and end of each test day). The first three of six impacts shall be considered warm-up drops, and their impact values shall be discarded from the series. The second three impacts shall be recorded. All recorded impacts shall fall within the range of 380 g to 425 g. In addition, the difference between the high and low values of the three recorded impacts shall not be greater than 20 g.
