
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1204 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR OMNIDIRECTIONAL CITIZENS BAND BASE STATION ANTENNAS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1204.1 Scope of the standard.
####### Scope.

(c)(1) Except as noted below, the standard applies to all omnidirectional CB base station antennas that are consumer products and are manufactured or imported on or after May 24, 1983.

(2) The Commission may extend the effective date of the standard for as long as an additional 90 days for any firm which has 750 employees or fewer and, is not a subsidiary or division of a firm having more than 750 employees, and which manufactures or imports products subject to the standard, upon written application, addressed to the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Administrative litigation, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207, received not later than January 17, 1983. An application for extension of the effective date shall:

(i) Identify the requesting firm as a manufacturer or importer of products subject to the standard.

(ii) State the total number of employees of the firm, including all employees of any subsidiary or division, and all employees of any firm of which the requesting firm is a subsidiary or division.

(iii) Request extension of the effective date to a specific date not later than May 27, 1983.

(iv) Explain why the requested extension of the effective date is needed.

(v) Describe all activities undertaken by the requesting firm to achieve compliance with the requirements of the standard.

(vi) State that the requesting firm will market complying products after the extended effective date.

(3) The Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Administrative Litigation will evaluate each request for extension of the effective date. The following criteria will be used in determining whether to grant an application for extension of the effective date:

(i) Does the application demonstrate that the requesting firm cannot meet the general effective date,

(ii) Does the application demonstrate that the requesting firm has made a good faith effort to achieve compliance with the requirements of the standard by the general effective date.

(iii) Does the application demonstrate that the firm is likely to produce or market complying products if the requested extension is granted.

(4) The Associate Executive Director will advise each requesting firm in writing if the requested extension is granted or denied. If the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Administrative Litigation denies a request for extension of the effective date, the firm may request the Commission to reconsider the denial.
