
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1204 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR OMNIDIRECTIONAL CITIZENS BAND BASE STATION ANTENNAS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1204.4 Electric shock protection tests.
####### Test equipment.

(c)(1) High voltage source capable of delivering at least 15 mA rms at 14.5 kV rms, 60 Hz. The source should have an automatic internal cut-off actuated by a preset current level.

(2) Instrumentation to measure the rms voltage applied to the antenna system.

(3) Current monitoring device to indicate hazardous components of the total rms current flowing to ground through the mast. One configuration of the circuitry for the current monitoring device (shown in Figure 1) consists of three parallel branches as follows. One branch consists of a resistor in series with a true-rms milliammeter with a maximum error of 5% of the reading in the frequency range of 50Hz to 10MHz (the total of the resistor and the internal resistance of the milliammeter is to be 1000 ohms). A parallel branch consists of a 1000 ohm resistor in series with a 0.08 microfarad capacitor. Another parallel branch should consist of a spark gap rated at 50 to 100 volts as a meter protection device. A different current monitoring device may be used if the measured value of the rms current corresponds to that indicated by the configuration described above.

(4) For the Insulating Material Effectiveness Test:

(i) High voltage electrode or test rod consisting ofin. (6.4 mm) diameter aluminum rod.

(ii) Support jig, structure, or hanger made of insulating material which is capable of holding antenna system test specimens electrically isolated from all surrounding structures or ground.

(5) For the Antenna-Mast System Test, a high voltage test facility, as shown in Figures 2 and 3, which includes a single power line spanning between two poles 95 to 105 feet (29 to 32 meters) apart, a tensioning device to adjust the cable sag to from 9 to 12 inches (23 to 30 cm), and a pivot fixture (Figure 2), for holding the base of an antenna-mast system, which can be moved horizontally to adjust the distance to the cable. The cable consists ofin. diameter 7 by 19 galvanized steel aircraft cable. The low point of the cable shall be between 28 and 29 feet (8.5 to 8.8 meters) above a horizontal plane through the pivot axis of the pivot fixture.
