
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1204 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR OMNIDIRECTIONAL CITIZENS BAND BASE STATION ANTENNAS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1204.4 Electric shock protection tests.
####### Insulating Material Effectiveness Test procedure.

(d)(1) A short piece of typical tubular mast shall be attached to the antenna system to be tested, in accordance with mounting instructions provided with the antenna system by the manufacturer.

(2) If a feed cable is provided with the antenna system, it shall be used in the test. If no cable is provided with the antenna system, a RG-213 cable shall be used in the test (Mil Spec. MIL-C-17/75C, 15 March 1977). In either case, the cable shall be connected to the antenna system, installed parallel to the mast, and secured by taping or similar means at one point on the mast. The side of the bottom end of the cable also shall be secured to the mast.

(3) With the antenna system properly supported and isolated from ground and with the current monitoring device connected to the mast, the test rod shall be connected to the high voltage source and brought into contact with the antenna system at any point within the protection zone (see ยง 1204.2(k) of this subpart). For each contact point, the voltage shall be increased from 0 to 14.5 kV at a rate of at least 2 kV per second and held at 14.5 kV for 5.0 minutes. Current shall be monitored and the maximum recorded.
