
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1204 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR OMNIDIRECTIONAL CITIZENS BAND BASE STATION ANTENNAS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1204.4 Electric shock protection tests.
####### Antenna-Mast System Test procedure.

(e)(1) The antenna system to be tested shall be attached to a mast in accordance with mounting instructions provided by the manufacturer. The mast shall be assembled of commercially available 1inch outside diameter 16 gauge tubular steel sections, commonly sold for antenna-mast installations in 5 and 10 feet lengths. The slip joints between the mast sections shall be secured (as with screws) to prohibit rotational or longitudinal movement at the joint. The length of the mast shall be such that when it is mounted in the pivot fixture of the high voltage test facility, the distance from the pivot to the uppermost point on the antenna system is 41.75 to 42.25 feet (12.7 to 12.9 meters).

(2) If a feed cable is provided with the antenna system, it shall be used in the test. If no cable is provided with the antenna system, a RG-213 feed cable shall be used in the test for specification of an RG-213 cable see (Mil. Spec. MIL-C-17/75C, 15 March 1977). In either case, the cable shall be connected to the antenna system, installed parallel to the mast, and secured by taping or similar means every two feet along the length of the mast. The side of the bottom end of the cable also shall be secured to the mast.

(3) The antenna-mast system shall be mounted in the pivot fixture. The pivot fixture shall be adjusted so that the point of impact between the antenna and the power line takes place at any desired point within the antenna's protection zone. The antenna-mast system shall then be erected to a position of up to 5&#xB0; from the vertical, leaning toward the simulated power line (see Figure 4). The antenna-mast system shall then be released and allowed to fall against the power line. The test may be performed with different test positions such that the antenna system flexes after impact and slides off the power line and or so that it remains in contact with the power line for 5.0 minutes. Current flow from the antenna-mast system to ground shall be monitored and recorded for each test.
