
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1205 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR WALK-BEHIND POWER LAWN MOWERS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1205.4 Walk-behind rotary power mower protective shields.
####### General requirements.

(a)Walk-behind rotary power mowers shall meet the following requirements:

(1) When the foot probe of Fig. 2 is inserted under any point within the areas to be probed during the foot probe test of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the shields shall prevent the foot probe from entering the path of the blade or causing any part of the mower to enter the path of the blade.

(2) Any shield located totally or partly within the areas to be probed, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, shall not permanently separate, crack, or deform when the shield is subjected to a 50 lb (222 N) static tensile force, uniformly distributed over not less than half the length of the shield. The force shall be applied for at least 10 seconds in the direction which produces the maximum stress on the shield. While being tested, a shield shall be attached to the mower in the manner in which it is intended to be used. (This requirement does not apply to the housing.)

(3) During the obstruction test of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shields shall not:

(i) Stop the mower as a result of contact with the raised obstacle,

(ii) Enter the path of the blade, or

(iii) Cause more than one wheel at a time to be lifted from the fixture surface.
