
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1205 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR WALK-BEHIND POWER LAWN MOWERS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1205.4 Walk-behind rotary power mower protective shields.
####### Obstruction test.

(2)(i) The following test conditions shall be observed:

(A) Pneumatic tires, when present, shall be inflated to the cold pressure recommended by the mower manufacturer.

(B) The mower housing shall be at its highest setting relative to the ground.

(ii) The test shall be performed on the fixture of Fig. 6, which consists of a level surface having (A) a 0.99 in (25 mm) deep depression with a 5.90 in (150 mm) radius of curvature and (B) a raised obstacle 0.60 in (15 mm) square, each extending the full width of the fixture. The depression shall be lined with a material having a surface equivalent to a 16- to 36-grit abrasive. The depression and the obstacle shall be located a sufficient distance apart so that the mower contacts only one at a time.

(iii) The test fixture may be relieved, only to the extent necessary, to prevent interference with any blade retaining device.

(iv) The mower shall be pushed forward and pulled rearward perpendicular to and across the depression and the raised obstacle on the fixture. The mower shall be pulled and pushed, without lifting, with a horizontal force sufficient to transit the obstruction fixture at a speed not to exceed 2.2 ft/sec (0.7 m/sec).
