
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1205 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR WALK-BEHIND POWER LAWN MOWERS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1205.5 Walk-behind rotary power mower controls.
####### Blade control systems,Requirements for blade control.

(a)-(1)A walk-behind rotary power mower shall have a blade control system that will perform the following functions:

(i) Prevent the blade from operating unless the operator actuates the control.

(ii) Require continuous contact with the control in order for the blade to continue to be driven.

(iii) Cause the blade motion in the normal direction of travel to come to a complete stop within 3.0 seconds after release of the control.

(iv) For a mower with an engine and with only manual starting controls, this blade control shall stop the blade without stopping the engine, unless:

(A) The engine starting controls for the lawn mower are located within 24 inches from the top of the mower's handles, or

(B) The mower has a protective foot shield which extends 360 degrees around the mower housing (see ยง 1205.4 (b)(1)(ii)(B)).

(2) All walk-behind rotary power mowers shall have, in addition to any blade control required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, another means which must be manually actuated before a stopped blade can be restarted. This additional means may be either a control which is separate from the control required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or may be incorporated into the control required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section as a double-action device requiring two distinct actions to restart the blade.
