
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1207 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR SWIMMING POOL SLIDES
##### ยง 1207.5 Design.
###### Z,X

(ii) Measurements shall be made from the still water level as the horizontal. The path angle shall be determined by measuring the angle between a tangent to the path of the center of gravity (line X) and the horizontal taken through the center of gravity (line Y). At least five consecutive runs with the same subject shall be made in order that an average may be computed.Angle of attack shall be taken as the angle between the slider's longitudinal axis () and the tangent to the path of his center of gravity (). The slider's longitudinal axis shall be located by the vertical line that passes through his center of gravity when he stands erect. The slider shall wear usual swimming attire. The angle-of-attack measurement shall be made after the slider's feet have cleared the slide, the distance between the end of the slide and his feet being less than 8 inches (20.3 cm). The slider's descent must be headfirst, prone, belly-down, and with arms extended in front. Except when starting, the slider shall not augment the slide trip by forcibly reacting with the slide through the use of his hands, arms, feet and/or legs. The slider's starting reactions with the slide shall be only as strong as necessary to start him moving. If the average angle of attack measured and computed in the above manner is equal to or greater than + 15&#xB0;, the slide passes this performance test.
