
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1209 - INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1209.4 Test procedures for determining settled density.
####### Apparatus and materials.

(a)(1) An insulation specimen container with a flat bottom and an inside diameter of 15.0+/-1 cm, straight sides [without a flared lip or spout, (Apparatus #1)]. The height of the beaker shall be such that the distance between the bottom of the cyclone and the top edge of the beaker is 8.5 cm+/-1.0 cm. (3.39 in+/-.39 in).

(2) A flat-rigid disc with a total weight of 75+/-5 g (2.65+/-0.18 oz) and of a suitable diameter to fit loosely into the specimen container. Weight may be added to the center of the disc to bring the total weight to the required 75+/-5 g (Apparatus #2).

(3) A balance of 2 kg (4.4 lbs) capacity accurate at least to 0.2 g (0.007 oz) (Apparatus #3).

(4) Blower apparatus, two units (supply and overflow) meeting the following specifications: (The Commission staff has found that a Breuer Electric Manufacturing Co., Model 98805 blower is suitable for this purpose, although other blowers may be suitable.) (Apparatus #4).

(i) Each blower apparatus shall be capable of blowing an average of 272.2 kg (600 lbs.) of insulation per hour.

(ii) Each blower apparatus shall have a nominal air flow of 2.1 cm/min. (75 ft/min.)

(iii) Each blower apparatus shall have a nominal motor speed of 16,450 revolutions per minute at 115 VAC.

(5) A shaker unit capable of shaking 4.5 kg (10 lb) of weight with a vertical motion of 0.5 g Root Mean Square (RMS) acceleration at an approximate frequency of 9 Hertz (Hz) and displacement of approximately 1.17 cm (+/-in.) +/-.08 cm peak to peak. (The Commission staff has found that a Tyler Industries, Portable Sieve Shaker Model Rx-24 is suitable for this purpose, although other shakers may be suitable.) (Apparatus #5).

(6) Fill chamber with inside dimensions of 45.7 cm (18 in) high x 38.1 cm (15 in) wide x 38.1 cm (15 in) deep, with covered openings that will allow a radiant panel tray to be slid through the chamber, (see Figure 1 for details) (Apparatus #6).

(7) A cyclone receiver (see Figure 2 for complete details). (Apparatus #7).

(8) Various lengths of nominally 2-inch diameter hose (see Figure 1 for details), as follows:

(i) A supply source hose, 274.3+/-5.1 cm (9 ft+/-2 in) (Apparatus #8(i)).

(ii) A cyclone receiver hose, 182.9+/-5.1 cm (6 ft+/-2 in) (Apparatus #8(ii)).

(iii) A fill chamber exit hose, 91,.4+/-5.1 cm (3 ft+/-2 in) (Apparatus #8(iii)).

(iv) An overflow exhaust hose, length as needed (Apparatus #8(iv)).

(9) Blower Control(s) capable of operating the two blowers at 40 volts RMS. As an example, a variac for each of the two blowers with sufficient rating to operate at 40 volts and 12 amperes RMS would be acceptable (Apparatus #9).

(10) An insulation holding container to hold a sufficient quantity of insulation to fill the specimen container four times.

(11) A garden rake, 50.8 cm (20 in) wide (Apparatus #11).

(12) A shovel (Apparatus #12).
