
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1209 - INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1209.6 Test procedures for critical radiant flux.
####### Construction and instrumentation of the radiant panel test chamber.

(b)The radiant panel test chamber shall be constructed and instrumented as follows:

(1) The radiant panel test chamber employed for this test shall be located in a draft protected area maintained at 21+/-3 &#xB0;C (69.8+/-9 &#xB0;F) and relative humidity of 50+/-20%. The radiant panel test chamber, (Figures 3 and 4) shall consist of an enclosure 140 cm (55 in) long by 50 cm (19in) deep by 71 cm (28 in) above the test specimen. The sides, ends, and top shall be of 1.3 cm nominal (in) calcium silicate board, such as Marinite I, 0.74 g/cm(46 lb/ft) nominal density, with a thermal conductivity at 177 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) of 1.11 cal (g)/hr cm&#xB0;C/cm [0.89 Btu/(hr) (ft) (&#xB0;F/in)]. One side shall be provided with an approximately 10 cm x 110 cm (4 x 44 inches) draft tight fire resistant glass window so that the entire length of the test specimen may be observed from ourside the fire test chamber. On the same side and below the observation window is a door which, when open, allows the specimen platform to be moved out for mounting or removal of test specimens. A draft tight, fire resistant observation window may be installed at the low flux end of the chamber.

(2) The bottom of the test chamber shall consist of a sliding steel platform which has provisions for rigidly securing the test specimen holder in a fixed and level position. The free, or air access, area around the platform shall be in the range of 1935-3225 cm(300-500 square in). The top of the chamber shall have an exhaust stack with interior dimensions of 10.2 cm (4 in) wide by 38 cm (15 in) deep by 31.8 cm (12.5 in) high at the opposite end of the chamber from the radiant energy source. The radiant heat energy source shall be a panel of porous refractory material mounted in a cast iron frame, with a radiation surface of 30.5 x 45.7 cm nominal (12 by 18 in). The panel fuel system shall consist of a venturi-type aspirator or equivalent system for mixing gas and air at approximately atmospheric pressure, a clean dry air supply capable of providing 28.3 NTP (Normal Temperature and Pressure mper hr (1000 standard cubic feet per hour) at 7.6 cm (3.0 in) of water, and suitable instrumentation for monitoring and controlling the flow of fuel to the panel.

(3) The radiant heat energy panel shall be mounted in the chamber 30+/-0.5&#xB0; to the horizontal specimen plane. The horizontal distance from the 0 mark on the specimen fixture to the bottom edge (projected) of the radiating surface of the panel is 8.9 cm+/-0.1 (3+/-in). The panel to specimen vertical distance is 14.0 cm+/-0.1 (5+/-in) (see Figure 5). The angle and dimensions given above are critical in order to obtain the required radiant flux. The radiation pyrometer for standardizing the thermal output of the panel shall be suitable for viewing a circular area 25.0 cm (10 in) in diameter at a range of about 1.37 m (54 in). It shall be calibrated over the black body temperature range of 490-510 &#xB0;C (914-950 &#xB0;F) in accordance with the procedure described in ยง 1209.8. A high impedance voltmeter with a suitable millivolt range shall be used to monitor the output of the radiation pyrometer described. The dummy holder (see Figure 6), shall be constructed from 14 gauge heat-resistant stainless steel (AISI Type 300 (UNA-N08330)) or equivalent thickness 0.198 cm (0.078 in), having overall dimension of 114 cm (45 in) by 32 cm (12in) with a specimen opening of 20 cm (7.9 inches) by 100 cm (39.4 in). Six slots are cut in the flange on either side of the holder to reduce warping. The holder is fastened to the platform with two stud bolts at each end.

(4) The specimen tray (see Figure 7) shall be constructed from 14 gauge heat-resistant stainless steel (AISI Type 300 (UNA-N08330)) or equivalent, thickness 0.198 cm (0.078 in). The depth of the tray is 5.0+/-0.2 cm (2+/-in). The flanges of the specimen tray are drilled to accommodate two stud bolts at each end; the bottom surface of the flange is 2.1+/-0.1 cm (0.83+/-0.04 in) below the top edge of the specimen tray. The overall dimensions of the tray and the width of the flanges are not critical and should be chosen so that the tray essentially fills the open space in the sliding platform. Tray must be adequate to contain a specimen at least 100 cm long and 25 cm wide. It is important to note that the zero reference point on the dummy specimen coincides with the pilot burner flame impingement point (see Figure 5).

(5) The pilot burner used to ignite the specimen shall be a propane venturi torch with an axially sysmmetric burner tip having a propane supply tube with an orifice diameter of 0.0076+/-0.0013 cm (0.003+/-0.0005 in). In operation, the propane flow is adjusted to give a pencil flame blue inner cone length of 1.3 cm (in). The pilot burner is positioned so that the flame generated will impinge on the centerline of the specimen at the zero reference point and at right angles to the specimen length (see Figures 3 and 4). The burner shall be capable of being swung out of the ignition position so that the flame is horizontal and at least 5 cm (2 in) above the specimen plane.

(6) Two 3.2 mm nominal (in) diameter stainless steel sheathed, grounded junction chromel alumel thermocouples are located in the flooring radiant panel test chamber (see Figures 3 and 4). Thermocouples shall be kept clean to ensure accuracy of readout. The chamber thermocouple is located in the longitudinal central vertical plane of the chamber 2.5 cm+/-0.1 (1+/-in) down from the top and 10.2 cm+/-0.1 (4 in+/-) back from the inside of the exhaust stack. The exhaust stack thermocouple is centrally located 15.2+/-0.1 cm (6+/-in) from the top. A temperature indicating device with a range of 100-500 &#xB0;C (212-932 &#xB0;F) may be used to determine the chamber temperatures prior to a test.

(7) An exhaust duct with a capacity of 28.3-85 NTP mper minute (1000-3000 standard cubic feet per minute) decoupled from the chamber stack by at least 7.6 cm (3 in) on all sides and with an effective area of the canopy slightly larger than the plane area of the chamber with the specimen platform in the out position shall be used to remove combustion products from the chamber. With the panel turned on and dummy specimen in place, there shall be no measurable difference in air flow through the chamber stack with the exhaust on or off.

(8) The dummy specimen which is used in the flux profile determination shall be made of 1.9+/-0.1 cm (+/-in) 0.74 g/cm(46 lb/ft) nominal density calcium silicate board, such as Marinite I (see Figure 6). It is 25 cm (10 in) wide by 107 cm (42 in) long with 2.7+/-0.1 cm (1+/-in) diameter holes centered on and along the centerline at the 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 cm locations (within +/-0.1 cm), measured from the zero reference point at the maximum flux end of the specimen. The total heat flux transducer used to determine the flux profile of the chamber in conjunction with the dummy specimen should be of the Schmidt-Boelter type, having a range of 0-1.5 W/cm(0-1.32 Btu/fts), and shall be calibrated over the operating flux level range of .10 to 1.5 W/cmin accordance with the procedure outlined in ยง 1209.8. The incoming cooling water flowing through the instrument shall be 15-25 &#xB0;C (59-77 &#xB0;F). A high impedance voltmeter with a resolution of at least 0.01 mV shall be used to measure the output of the total heat flux transducer during the flux profile determination. A timer shall be used for measuring preheat and pilot contact time.
