
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1209 - INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1209.6 Test procedures for critical radiant flux.
####### Test specimens,Specimens of insulation intended for pneumatic applications.

(d)-(1)(i) Insulation shall be installed into the specimen tray using the blower/cyclone apparatus described in ยง 1209.4(a).

(ii) Insulation shall be conditioned as described in ยง 1209.4(b).

(iii) Apparatus #4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 shall be used as described in ยง 1209.4(d)(1)(i) with the following additional requirements.

(iv) The fill chamber (apparatus #6) shall be equipped with openings in the front and back so that a radiant panel specimen tray can be slid through the fill chamber.

(v) Adjust the blower control(s) (apparatus #9) such that the supply and overflow blowers will operate at a no load voltage of 40 volts RMS.

(vi) Turn on the blowers simultaneously and proceed to fill the fill chamber by picking up material from the box using the supply source hose. Large clumps of insulation shall be broken by hand before feeding them into the hose. Continue filling the chamber until large amounts of insulation are being drawn into the overflow hose.

(vii) Slowly slide the specimen tray through the fill chamber so that the low flux end of the tray is parallel with the back of the fill chamber filling the tray by sliding the tray forward to allow an excess of insulation to build up in the tray.

(viii) Shut off the blowers and remove the specimen tray and gently screed the insulation so that the insulation is level across the top of the tray. Take care not to compact the insulation or to leave large voids in the material. The tray may now be inserted into the radiant panel.
