
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1209 - INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1209.6 Test procedures for critical radiant flux.
####### Radiant heat energy flux profile standardization.

(e)In a continuing program of tests, determine the flux profile at least once a week. Where the time interval between tests is greater than one week, determine the flux profile at the start of the test series.

(1) Mount the dummy specimen in the mounting frame and attach the assembly to the sliding platform. With the sliding platform out of the chamber, ignite the radiant panel. Allow the unit to heat for 1 hour. The pilot burner is off during this determination. Adjust the fuel mixture to give an air-rich flame. Make fuel flow settings to bring the panel to an apparent black body temperature as measured by the radiation pyrometer, of approximately 500 &#xB0;C (932 &#xB0;F), and bring the chamber to a temperature of approximately 180 &#xB0;C (356 &#xB0;F). When equilibrium has been established, move the specimen platform into the chamber. Allow 0.5 hour for the closed chamber to reach equilibrium.

(2) Measure the radiant heat energy flux level at the 40 cm point with the total flux meter instrumentation. This is done by inserting the flux meter in the opening so that its detecting plane is 0.16-0.32 cm (-inch) above and parallel to the plane of the dummy specimen and reading its output after 30+/-10 seconds. If the level is within the limits specified, the flux profile determination is started. If it is not, make the necessary adjustments in the panel fuel flow. A suggested flux profile data log format is shown in Figure 9.

(3) The test shall be run under chamber operating conditions which give a flux profile as shown in Figure 8. The radiant heat energy incident on the dummy specimen shall be between 0.87 and .95 W/cm(0.77 and .83 Btu/ftsec) at the 20 cm point, between 0.48 and 0.52 W/cm(0.42 and 0.46 Btu/ftsec) at the 40 cm point, and between 0.22 and 0.26 W/cm(0.19 and 0.23 Btu/ftsec) at the 60 cm point. Insert the flux meter in the 10 cm opening, following the procedure given above. Read the millivolt output at 30+/-10 seconds and proceed to the 20 cm point. Repeat the 10 cm procedure. The 30 to 90 cm flux levels are determined in the same manner. Following the 90 cm measurement, make a check reading at 40 cm. If this is within the limits set forth, the test chamber is in calibration, and the profile determination is completed. If not, carefully adjust fuel flow, allow 0.5 hour for equilibrium and repeat the procedure. Plot the radiant heat energy flux data as a function of distance along the specimen plane on rectangular coordinate graph paper. Carefully draw the best smooth curve through the data points. This curve will hereafter be referred to as the flux profile curve.

(4) Determine the open chamber apparent black body and chamber temperatures that are identified with the standard flux profile by opening the door and moving the specimen platform out. Allow 0.5 hour for the chamber to reach equilibrium. Read the radiation pyrometer output and record the apparent black body temperature. This is the temperature setting that can be used in subsequent test work in lieu of measuring the radiant flux at 20 cm, 40 cm, and 60 cm using the dummy specimen. The chamber temperature also shall be determined again after 0.5 hour and is an added check on operating conditions.
