
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1209 - INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1209.6 Test procedures for critical radiant flux.
####### Test Procedure.

(g)(1) With the sliding platform out of the chamber, ignite the radiant panel. Allow the unit to heat for 1 hour. It is recommended that a sheet of inorganic millboard be used to cover the opening when the hinged portion of the front panel is open and the specimen platform is moved out of the chamber. The millboard is used to prevent heating of the specimen and to protect the operator. Read the panel apparent black body temperature and the chamber temperature. When these temperatures are in agreement to within +/-5 &#xB0;C (+/-9 &#xB0;F) with those determined previously, during the flux profile standardization procedure, the chamber is ready for use.

(2) Mount the specimen tray with insulation on the sliding platform and position with stud bolts (see Figure 9). Ignite the pilot burner, move the specimen into the chamber, and close the door. Start the timer. After 2 minutes +/-5 seconds preheat, with the pilot burner on and set so that the flame is horizontal and about 5 cm above the specimen, bring the pilot burner flame into contact with the center of the specimen at the 0 mark. Leave the pilot burner flame in contact with the specimen for 2 minutes +/-5 seconds, or until all flaming other than in the area of the pilot burner has ceased, then remove to a position of at least 5 cm above the specimen and leave burning until the test is terminated.

(3) If the specimen does not ignite within 2 minutes following pilot burner flame application, the test is terminated by extinguishing the pilot burner flame. For specimens that do ignite, the test is continued until the flame goes out. When the test is completed, the door is opened, and the specimen platform is pulled out.

(4) Measure the distance burned, (the point of farthest advance of the flame front) to the nearest 0.1 cm (.03 in). From the flux profile curve, convert the distance to W/cm(Btu/ft2sec) critical radiant heat flux at flame out. Read to two significant figures. A suggested data log format is shown in Figure 10.

(5) Remove the specimen tray from the moveable platform. The succeeding test can begin as soon as the panel apparent black body temperature and chamber temperature are verified. The specimen tray should be at room temperature before the next specimen is inserted.
