
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1209 - INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1209.7 Test procedures for smoldering combustion.
####### Test procedure.

(b)(1) Specimens and cigarettes shall be conditioned in air at a temperature of 21+/-3 &#xB0;C (69.8+/-5.4 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity of 50+/-5 percent to equilibrium prior to test. A change of less than 1% in net weight of the specimen in two consecutive weighings with two hours between each weighing constitutes equilibrium. Cigarettes shall be removed from any packaging and exposed in a suitable manner to permit free movement of air around them during conditioning. Calculate the weight of material necessary to fill the holder (volume 4,000 cmor 0.14 ft) at the settled density as determined in ยง 1209.4(e). The material shall be blown, combed, or otherwise mixed to remove lumps and shall be loaded uniformly into each specimen holder, level and flush to the top of the holder. The weight of each specimen shall be measured to the nearest 0.2 g (0.007 oz) or less by weighing the holder before and after filling. If the weight of the specimen is less than that calculated, a removable extension top shall be placed on top of the holder, the necessary amount of insulation is placed inside the extension and the loaded holder shall be dropped from a height no greater than 7.6 cm. (3 in) onto a hard flat surface. This process shall be repeated until the calculated weight of material completely fills the holder. The extension top is then removed. With the specimen in the holder and placed on the insulated pad, a rod of 8 mm (.31 in) diameter with a pointed end shall be inserted vertically into the approximate center of the material being tested and withdrawn to form an appropriate cavity for the ignition source, such that the cigarette fits snugly and maintains uniform contact with the specimen. A well lit cigarette, burned not more than 8 mm (0.31 in), shall be inserted in the formed cavity, with the lit end upward and flush with the specimen surface. Burning of the cigarette and specimen shall be allowed to proceed undisturbed in the test area for at least 2 hours or until the smoldering is no longer progressing, whichever period is longer.

(2) After completion of burning and after the holder has cooled down to approximately room temperature, the specimen holder with its material residue shall be weighed, at least to the nearest 0.1 g (0.003 oz), and the percent weight loss of the original specimen calculated. The weight of the cigarette residue is ignored in this calculation. (That is, the weight of the cigarette residue is not subtracted from the net weight of the specimen holder's contends at the conclusion of the test.)

(3) Three specimens per sample shall be tested.
