
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1209 - INTERIM SAFETY STANDARD FOR CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 1209.33 Reasonable testing program.
####### Requirements of testing program.

(b)A reasonable testing program for cellulose insulation is one which demonstrates with reasonable certainty that insulation certified to comply with the standard will meet all requirements of the standard. Manufacturers, private labelers, and importers shall determine the types and frequency of testing for their own reasonable testing programs. A reasonable testing program may include either the tests prescribed by the standard, or any other reasonable test procedures. However, a reasonable testing program cannot consist of tests which the party issuing the certificate of compliance knows (or through the exercise of reasonable diligence should know) will pass or accept insulation which will yield failing results when subjected to any of the tests in the standard. All reasonable testing programs shall consist of four elements:

(1) Qualification tests which must be performed on samples of the manufacturer's cellulose insulation to demonstrate that the product is capable of passing the tests prescribed by the standard.

(2) A description of the cellulose insulation which passed the qualification testing. This description is known as the "product specification."

(3) Production tests, which must be performed at appropriate production intervals as long as the cellulose insulation is being manufactured.

(4) Corrective action, which must be taken whenever samples of the cellulose insulation yield unacceptable or failing test results.
