
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1210 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR CIGARETTE LIGHTERS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Child Resistance
###### ยง 1210.4 Test protocol.
####### Child test panel.

(a)(1) The test to determine if a lighter is resistant to successful operation by children uses a panel of children to test a surrogate lighter representing the production lighter intended for use. Written informed consent shall be obtained from a parent or legal guardian of a child before the child participates in the test.

(2) The test shall be conducted using at least one, but no more than two, 100-child test panels in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1210.4(f).

(3) The children for the test panel shall live within the United States.

(4) The age and sex distribution of each 100-child panel shall be:

(i) 30 + or- 2 children (20 + or- 1 males; 10 + or- 1 females) 42 through 44 months old;

(ii) 40 + or- 2 children (26 + or- 1 males; 14 + or- 1 females) 45 through 48 months old;

(iii) 30 + or- 2 children (20 + or- 1 males; 10 + or- 1 females) 49 through 51 months old.

Note: To calculate a child's age in months:

1. Subtract the child's birth date from the test date.

2. Multiply the difference in years by 12 months.

4 years x 12 months = 48 months.

3. Add the difference in months.

48 months + 2 months = 50 months.

4. If the difference in days is greater than 15 (e.g. 16, 17), add 1 month.

If the difference in days is less than -15 (e.g., -16, -17) subtract 1 month.

50 months - 1 month = 49 months.
