
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### § 1211.5 General testing parameters.

(a) The following test parameters are to be used in the investigation of the circuit covered by § 1211.4(c) for compliance with either, UL 991, or Supplement SA of UL 325-2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40):

(1) With regard to electrical supervision of critical components, an operator being inoperative with respect to closing movement of the door meets the criteria for trouble indication.

(2) A field strength of 3 volts per meter is to be used for the Radiated EMI Test.

(3) The Composite Operational and Cycling Test is to be used for 14 days at temperature extremes of minus 35 &#xB0;Celsius (minus 31 &#xB0;F) and 70 &#xB0;C (158 &#xB0;F).

(4) Exposure Class H5 is to be used for the Humidity Test.

(5) A vibration level of 5g is to be used for the Vibration Test.

(6) When a Computational Investigation is conducted, λshall not be greater than 6 failures/10hours for the entire system. For external secondary entrapment protection devices or systems that are sold separately, λshall not be greater than 0 failures/10hours. For internal secondary entrapment protection devices or systems whether or not they are sold separately, λshall not be greater than 0 failures/10hours. The operational test is conducted for 14 days. An external secondary entrapment protection device or system that is sold separately, and that has a λgreater than 0 failures/10hours meets the intent of the requirement when for the combination of the operator and the specified external secondary entrapment protection device or system λdoes not exceed 6 failures/10hours. See § 1211.18(j) through (l).

(7) When the Demonstrated Method Test is conducted, the multiplier is to be based on the continuous usage level, and a minimum of 24 units for a minimum of 24 hours per unit are to be tested.

(8) The Endurance test is to be conducted concurrently with the Operational test. The control shall perform its intended function while being conditioned for fourteen days in an ambient air temperature of 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F), or 10 &#xB0;C (18 &#xB0;F) greater than the operating temperature of the control, whichever is higher. During the test, the control is to be operated in a manner representing the opening and closing of the door at a rate of one open-close operation per minute.

(9) For the Electrical Fast Transient Burst Test, test level 3 is to be used for residential garage door operators.

(b) In the evaluation of entrapment protection circuits used in residential garage door operators, the critical condition flow chart shown in figure 1 to subpart A shall be used:

(1) To conduct a failure-mode and effect analysis (FMEA);

(2) In investigating the performance during the Environmental Stress Tests;

(3) During the Power Cycling Safety for Tests in accordance with UL 991 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40); and

(4) During evaluation of the circuit to the requirements of Supplement SA of UL 325-2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40).
