
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.10 Requirements for all entrapment protection devices.
####### Splash test.

(c)(1) An external entrapment protection device intended to be installed inside a garage 3 feet or less above the floor shall withstand a water exposure as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section without resulting in a risk of electric shock and shall function as intended, per paragraph (c)(3) of this section. After exposure, the external surface of the device may be dried before determining its functionality.

(2) External entrapment protection devices are to be indirectly sprayed using a hose having the free end fitted with a nozzle as illustrated in Figure 2 to subpart A and connected to a water supply capable of maintaining a flow rate of 5 gallons (19 liters) per minute as measured at the outlet orifice of the nozzle. The water from the hose is to be played, from all sides and at any angle against the floor under the device in such a manner most likely to cause water to splash the enclosure of electric components. However, the nozzle is not to be brought closer than 10 feet (3.05 m) horizontally to the device. The water is to be sprayed for 1 minute.

(3) After drying the external surface of the device:

(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation Tests per ยง 1211.11(a) through (c); and

(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation Test, per ยง 1211.12(a).

(iii) There shall be no water on uninsulated live parts of a line voltage circuit.
