
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.10 Requirements for all entrapment protection devices.
####### i.e.

(B) Shut down safely (provide an obstruction signal to the door).

(2) Samples of the external entrapment protection device are to be subjected to the Resistance to Impact Test described in UL 746C (incorporated by reference, see ยง 1211.40). The external entrapment protection device is to be subjected to 5 foot-pound (6.8 J) impacts. Three samples are to be tested, each sample being subjected to three impacts at different points.

(3) In lieu of conducting the room temperature test described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, each of three samples of a device exposed to outdoor weather when the door is in the closed position are to be cooled to a temperature of minus 31.0 +/-3.6 &#xB0;F (minus 35.0 +/-2.0 &#xB0;C) and maintained at this temperature for 3 hours. Three samples of a device employed inside the garage are to be cooled to a temperature of 32.0 &#xB0;F (0.0 &#xB0;C) and maintained at this temperature for 3 hours. While the sample is still cold, the samples shall be subject to the test described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and shall comply with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. After determining compliance with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the sample shall be allowed to return to room temperature, and then shall comply with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(4) To determine compliance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section:

(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation tests per ยง 1211.11(a) through (c); and

(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation Test, per ยง 1211.12(a).
