
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.11 Requirements for photoelectric sensors.
####### Sensitivity test.

(d)(1) When installed as described in ยง 1211.10(a)(1) through (4), a photoelectric sensor shall sense the presence of a moving object when tested according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(2) The moving object is to consist of a 1inch (47.6 mm) diameter cylindrical rod, 34inches (876 mm) long, with the axis point being 34 inches (864 mm) from the end. The axis point is to be fixed at a point centered directly above the beam of the photoelectric sensor 36 inches (914 mm) above the floor. The photoelectric sensor is to be mounted at the highest position as recommended by the manufacturer. The rod is to be swung as a pendulum through the photoelectric sensor's beam from a position 45 degrees from the plane of the door when in the closed position. See Figure 4 to subpart A.

(3) The test described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is to be conducted at three points over the width of the door opening, at distances of 1 foot (305 mm) from each end and the midpoint.

(4) When the test fixture of Figure 4 to subpart A, prior to conduct of the test, interferes with the photoelectric sensor detection zone, the tests per paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section may be conducted instead per paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
