
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.11 Requirements for photoelectric sensors.
####### Photoelectric sensor vertical arrays.

(f)(1) A vertical array shall be tested as required by paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, except as noted in paragraphs (f)(2) through (5) of this section.

(2) The array shall comply with the Normal Operation tests specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, with the solid obstruction placed on the floor. In addition, the obstruction shall be placed at various locations over the height of the light curtain array in accordance with the light curtain coverage area per the manufacturer's instructions.

(3) In conducting the tests specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, when the product includes a blanking function whereby the light array is located directly in-line with the path of the door travel, and the door system is intended to detect any obstruction other than one in the "next" successive position that the door is programmed to travel, the obstruction is placed at any location other than the next successive door position expected by the system.

(4) The array shall comply with the Sensitivity Test specified in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the edge of the pendulum nearest to the array is to be located 2 in. (50.8 mm) from one side of the plane of the array, rather than directly above one photoelectric sensor pair. For vertical arrays, this test need only be conducted with the test pendulum at the vertical height indicated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(5) When conducting the Ambient Light Test specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the position of the light source shall be aligned per paragraph (e)(2) of this section based on the axis of the lowest beam or detection zone. This arrangement shall be used to determine compliance with the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section (with the obstruction at the floor level) and paragraph (f)(4) of this section, which are the only conditions for which the ambient light is required to be applied.
