
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.12 Requirements for edge sensors.
####### Normal operation test.

(a)(1) When installed on a representative residential door edge, an edge sensor shall actuate upon the application of a 15 pounds (66.7 N) or less force in the direction of the application. For an edge sensor intended to be used on a sectional door, the force is to be applied by the longitudinal edge of a 1inch (47.6 mm) diameter cylinder placed across the switch so that the axis is perpendicular to the plane of the door. For an edge sensor intended to be used on a one piece door, the force is to be applied so that the axis is at an angle 30 degrees from the direction perpendicular to the plane of the door. See figure 6 to subpart A.

(2) With respect to the test of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the test is to be repeated at various representative points of the edge sensor across the width of the door.

(3) Exception: The edge sensor need not be sensitive to actuation two inches (50.4 mm) or less from each end of the intended width of the door opening.

(4)(i) An edge sensor, when installed on a representative door, shall actuate upon the application of a 15 lbf (66.7 N) or less force in the direction of the application when tested at room temperature 25 &#xB0;C +/-2 &#xB0;C (77 &#xB0;F +/-3.6 &#xB0;F) and, additionally, when intended for use with gate operators, shall actuate at 40 lbf (177.9 N) or less force when tested at -35 &#xB0;C +/-2 &#xB0;C (-31 &#xB0;F +/-3.6 &#xB0;F).

(A) For an edge sensor intended to be used on a sectional door, the force is to be applied by the longitudinal edge of a 1in (47.6 mm) diameter cylinder placed across the sensor so that the axis is perpendicular to plane of the door. See Figures 6A and 6B to this subpart.

(B) For an edge sensor intended to be used on a one piece door, swinging door, or swinging gate, the force is to be applied so that the axis is at an angle 30 degrees from the direction perpendicular to the plane of the door. See Figures 6C and 6D to this subpart.

(C) For an edge sensor that wraps around the leading edge of a swinging one-piece door, providing activation in both directions of travel, the force is to be applied so that the axis is at an angle 30 degrees from the direction perpendicular to both the closing direction and the opening direction. See Figure 6E to this subpart.

(ii) With respect to the Edge Sensor Test specified in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the test is to be repeated at various representative points of the edge sensor across the length of the edge sensor. See Figures 6F and 6G to this subpart.
