
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.12 Requirements for edge sensors.
####### Residential garage door operators.

(5)(i) For vertically moving residential garage door operators intended to be used with an external edge sensor, with reference to 32.3.1(b), a 1in by 3in (41.3 mm by 88.9 mm) solid rectangular object not less than 6 in (152 mm) long is to be fixed in an immobile position at the fully closed position with the longitudinal axis perpendicular to the edge of the door. The 1in (41.3 mm) side of the obstruction facing the leading edge is to contact the moving door at various points along the width of the door. See Figure 6H to this subpart.

(ii) For horizontally moving residential garage door operators intended to be used with an external edge sensor, with reference to 32.3.2(b), a 1in by 3in (41.3 mm by 88.9 mm) solid rectangular object not less than 6 in (152 mm) long is to be fixed in an immobile position with the longitudinal axis perpendicular to the edge of the door. The 1in (41.3 mm) side of the obstruction facing the leading edge is to contact the moving door at various points along the leading edge of the door. The same object is then to be arranged to contact the moving door at various points along the trailing edge of the door. See Figure 6I to this subpart.
