
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.12 Requirements for edge sensors.
####### Puncture resistance test.

(d)(1) After being subjected to the tests described in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section, an elastomeric material that is a functional part of an edge sensor shall:

(i) Not be damaged in a manner that would adversely affect the intended operation of the edge sensor, and

(ii) Maintain enclosure integrity if it serves to reduce the likelihood of contamination of electrical contacts.

(2) For a vertically moving door, a sample of the edge sensor is to be installed in the intended manner on a representative door edge. The probe described in figure 7 to subpart A is to be applied with a 20 pound-force (89 N) to any point on the sensor that is 3 inches (76 mm) or less above the floor is to be applied in the direction specified in the Edge Sensor Normal Operation Test, Figure 6A or 6C to subpart A as applicable. The test is to be repeated on three locations on each surface of the sensor being tested.

(3) For horizontally sliding doors, sample of the edge sensor is to be installed in the intended manner on a representative door edge. The probe described in figure 7 to subpart A is to be applied with a 20 lbf (89 N) to any point on the sensor when the door is within 3 in (76 mm) of its fully open position and within 3 in (76 mm) of any stationary wall. For each type of door, the force is to be applied in the direction specified in the Edge Sensor Normal Operation Test, Figure 6B to subpart A. The test is to be repeated on three locations on each surface of the sensor being tested.
