
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.13 Inherent force activated secondary door sensors.
####### General.

(a)(1) A force activated door sensor of a door system installed according to the installation instructions shall actuate in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, which are to be conducted in sequence on a single system sample, except for the separate test sequences of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The system shall actuate with the maximum and minimum specifications of the door, operator, and hardware.

(3) Tests conducted per paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be performed with the force exerted by a drive adjusted to its highest value if the force can be adjusted by the user during use or user maintenance.

(4) The test cylinder referred to in paragraph (b)(7) of this section shall be a 1in (47.6 mm) diameter cylinder placed under the door so that the axis is perpendicular to the plane of the door. See figure 6A to subpart A.

(5) The measuring device referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall:

(i) Have an accuracy of +/-1%;

(ii) Have a rise and fall time not exceeding 5 ms;

(iii) Have the equivalence of a spring constant of 2855 lb/in +/-285 lb/in (500 N/mm, +/-50 N/mm);

(iv) Be placed on a rigid, level surface; and

(v) Have a rigid plate with a diameter of 3.1 in (80 mm).

(vi) See paragraph (a)(6) of this section for test equipment alternatives for force measurements at 1 ft (305 mm) or greater for the tests conducted per paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.

(6) With regard to the alternative test equipment referred to in paragraph (a)(5)(vi) of this section, the test device described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section for force measurements at 1 foot (305 mm) or greater shall be:

(i) A spring constant means such as specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section;

(ii) A gravity based weight displacing means that suspends a weight off its supporting surface upon exceeding 15 lbf (67 N) such as the example shown in figures 8 through 10 of this subpart if the equipment described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section is applied before the tests specified in paragraph (c) of this section and after the tests specified in paragraph (d) of this section at the 1 ft (305 mm) height specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section; or

(iii) The equivalent requirements of paragraphs (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(7) The cycles specified in paragraph (d) of this section are not required to be consecutive. Continuous operation of the motor without cooling is not required.
