
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.13 Inherent force activated secondary door sensors.
####### Closing force test.

(b)(1) The door shall stop and reverse within 2 seconds after contacting the obstruction. The door shall apply the following forces at the locations noted in paragraph (b)(2) of this section:

(i) 90 lbf (400 N) or less average during the first 0.75 seconds after 15 lbf (67 N) is exceeded from initial impact; and

(ii) 15 lbf (67 N) or less from 0.75 seconds after 15 lbf (67 N) is exceeded from initial impact until the door reverses.

(2) The test referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be conducted at the following test height and locations along the edge of the door:

(i) The center point, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor;

(ii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the end of the door, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor; and

(iii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the other end of the door, at a height of 2 in (50.8) from the floor.

(3) The maximum force specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be tested by the door applying a force against the longitudinal edge of the test cylinder described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(4) The equipment used to measure force for the test described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(5) The door shall stop and reverse within 2 seconds after contacting the obstruction. The door shall apply a load of 15 lbf (67 N) or less in the closing direction along the path of door travel at the locations noted in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(6) The test described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be conducted at the following points along the edge of the door:

(i) At the center at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft (305 mm, 914 mm and 1.52 m) from the floor;

(ii) Within 1 ft (305 mm) of the end of the door, at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft from the floor; and

(iii) Within 1 ft of the other end of the door at heights of 1 ft, 3 ft, and 5 ft from the floor.

(7) The maximum force described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be tested by the door applying a force against the longitudinal edge of the test cylinder as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(8) The equipment used to measure forces for the test described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) or (6) of this section.
