
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### § 1211.15 Vertically moving combination rigid one-piece overhead residential garage door and operator system.

(a) A vertically moving combination rigid one-piece overhead residential garage door and operator system shall comply with the applicable residential garage door operator requirements in this standard and shall additionally comply with the following:

(1) The speed of the door edge during the opening or closing motion shall not exceed 6 in (152 mm) per second.

(2) The system shall be supplied with two additional independent secondary entrapment protection devices complying with Secondary Entrapment Protection, § 1211.8. When photoelectric sensors are used, a minimum of two sensors in addition to a third secondary device shall be supplied. The instructions shall state that one photoelectric sensor shall be positioned to comply with § 1211.11 and the other(s) shall be positioned on the left and right sides of the door to detect solid objects that would be within the space where the door moves as it opens or closes.

(3) A means to manually detach both door operators from the door shall be provided. For systems where the mechanical drive is located on a wall adjacent to the door, the manual detachment means is not required to comply with § 1211.9(a). Instead, the manual detachment means shall be located 5 ft (1.52 m) above the floor, shall not require a torque of more than 5 ft-lb (6.78 N-m) to initiate disconnection when the door is obstructed, and shall be clearly marked with operating instructions adjacent to the mechanism. The gripping surface (handle) shall be colored red and shall be distinguishable from the rest of the operator. The marking which includes instructions for detaching the operator shall be provided in accordance with § 1211.17(a), (b), and (j) as applicable.

(4) A means (interlock) shall be supplied to de-energize the operator whenever the operator is manually detached from the door.

(5) A means (interlock) shall be supplied to de-energize the operator whenever an operable window or access (service) door that is mounted in the garage door is opened perpendicular to the surface of the garage door.

(6) The door shall not move outward from the exterior wall surface during the opening or closing cycle.

(7) The moving parts of the door or door system (mounting hardware, track assembly, and components that make up the door) shall be guarded.

(8) A horizontal track assembly, including installation hardware, shall support a dead load equal to the door weight when the door is in the horizontal position.

(9) Instructions for the installation of operable windows and access (service) doors and the interlocks specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section shall be supplied with the operator.

(b) [Reserved]
