
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.16 Instruction manual.
####### General.

(a)(1) A residential garage door operator shall be provided with an instruction manual. The instruction manual shall give complete instructions for the installation, operation, and user maintenance of the operator.

(2) Instructions that clearly detail installation and adjustment procedures required to effect proper operation of the safety means provided shall be provided with each door operator.

(3) A residential garage door or door operator shall be provided with complete and specific instructions for the correct adjustment of the control mechanism and the need for periodic checking and, if needed, adjustment of the control mechanism so as to maintain satisfactory operation of the door.

(4) The instruction manual shall include the important instructions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. All required text shall be legible and contrast with the background. Upper case letters of required text shall be no less thaninch (2.0 mm) high and lower case letters shall be no less thaninch (1.6 mm) high. Heading such as "Important Installation Instructions," "Important Safety Instructions," "Save These Instructions" and the words "Warning-To reduce the risk of severe injury or death to persons:" shall be in letters no less thaninch (4.8 mm) high.

(5) The instructions listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section shall be in the exact words specified or shall be in equally definitive terminology to those specified. No substitutes shall be used for the word "Warning." The items may be numbered. The first and last items specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be first and last respectively. Other important and precautionary items considered appropriate by the manufacturer may be inserted.

(6) The instructions listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be located immediately prior to the installation instructions. The instructions listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be located immediately prior to user operation and maintenance instructions. In each case, the instructions shall be separate in format from other detailed instructions related to installation, operation and maintenance of the operator. All instructions, except installation instructions, shall be a permanent part of the manual(s).

(7) For an operator or system provided with an external entrapment protection device requiring a non-rechargeable battery, instructions shall be provided with the operator and/or the device for:

(i) The rating, size, number, and type of battery(s) to be used; and

(ii) The proper insertion, polarity, orientation, and replacement of the battery(s).

(8) For an operator or system provided with an external entrapment protection device or system utilizing wireless control, instructions shall be provided with the operator and/or the device for:

(i) The proper method of configuring and initializing the wireless communication link between device and operator;

(ii) The proper orientation, antenna positioning, and mounting location with regard to maintaining communication link between device and operator;

(iii) The maximum range at which the wireless device will operate; and

(iv) The proper location of the device where the transmission of the signals are not obstructed or impeded by building structures, natural landscaping or similar obstruction.

(9) When provided with a detachable supply cord, the operator instructions shall contain complete details concerning proper selection of the power supply cord replacement.

(10) The installation, operation, and maintenance instructions may be provided in electronic read-only media format only, such as CD-ROM, USB flash drive, or company Web site, if the following instructions are additionally provided with the operator in an instruction sheet, manual, booklet, or similar printed material:

(i) Residential garage doors and door operators, instructions of this section, as applicable.

(ii) [Reserved]

(11) The printed instruction material referenced in this section shall contain detailed instructions of how to obtain a printed copy of the material contained in electronic format.

(12) All printed instruction material referenced in this section shall also be provided in the electronic read-only media format.

(13) Instructions of a combination sectional overhead garage door operator system shall specify:

(i) The operator by manufacturer and model;

(ii) The door(s) by manufacturer(s), model(s), and maximum and minimum door width and height required for compliance to ยง 1211.6(a) and (c); and

(iii) Hardware required for compliance to ยง 1211.6(a) and (c).

(14) Installation and maintenance instructions of a combination sectional overhead garage door operator system shall indicate how to properly counter-balance the door.
