
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1211.18 UL marking requirements.

(a) Unless specifically excepted, marking required in this standard shall be permanent. Ink-printed and stenciled markings, decalcomania labels, and pressure sensitive labels are among the types of marking that are considered acceptable if they are acceptably applied and are of good quality.

(b) Except as provided below, a garage door operator shall be plainly marked, at a location where the marking will be readily visible-after installation, in the case of a permanently connected appliance-with:

(1) The manufacturer's name, trademark, or other descriptive marking by which the organization responsible for the product may be identified-hereinafter referred to as the manufacturer's name;

(2) The catalog number or the equivalent;

(3) The voltage, frequency, and input in amperes, VA, or watts. The ampere or VA rating shall be included unless the full-load power factor is 80 percent or more, or, for a cord-connected appliance, unless the rating is 50 W or less. The number of phases shall be indicated when an appliance is for use on a polyphase circuit; and

(4) The date or other dating period of manufacture not exceeding any three consecutive months.

(c) The date code repetition cycle shall not be less than 20 years.

(d) Exception No. 1: The manufacturer's identification may be in a traceable code if the operator is identified by the brand or trademark owned by a private labeler.

(e) Exception No. 2: The date of manufacture may be abbreviated or in an established or otherwise accepted code.

(f) Exception No 3: The input in amperes or watts may be shown as part of the motor nameplate, if the appliance employs a single motor, the nameplate is readily visible after the appliance has been installed.

(g) If a manufacturer produces or assembles operators at more than one factory, each finished operator shall have a distinctive marking, which may be in code, to identify it as the product of a particular factory.

(h) The carton and the instruction manual for an operator shall be marked with the word "WARNING" and the following or the equivalent: "To reduce the risk of injury to persons-Use this operator only with (a) ___ door(s)."

(i) For products with user adjustments, a residential garage door operator shall be marked with the word "WARNING" and the following or equivalent, "Risk of entrapment. After adjusting either the force or limits of travel adjustments, insure that the door reverses on a 1inch (or a 2 by 4 board laid flat) high obstruction on the floor." This marking shall be located where visible to the user when making the adjustments.

(j) For a separately supplied accessory, including external entrapment protection device, the instructions, packaging, or marking on the product shall indicate the accessory manufacturer's name and or model number and the type of appliance or appliances with which it is intended to be used-such as a residential garage door operator. Additionally, installation instructions, accompanying specifications sheet, or packaging of the accessory shall identify the appliance or appliances with which it is intended to be used by specifying the manufacturer's name and catalog or model number or by any other positive means to serve the identification purpose.

(k) An appliance provided with terminals or connectors for connection of a separately supplied accessory, such as an external entrapment protection device or system, shall be marked to identify the accessory intended to be connected to the terminals or connectors. The accessory identification shall be by manufacturer's name and catalog or model number or other means to allow for the identification of accessories intended for use with the appliance.

(l) With reference to paragraph (k) of this section, instructions for installing a separately supplied accessory shall be provided. A statement shall be included in the instructions warning the user that the appliance must be disconnected from the source of supply before attempting the installation of the accessory.

(m)(1) In accordance with ยง 1211.14(a)(2), a residential garage door operator intended for use with both sectional and one-piece or swinging door that has an unattended operation close feature indicating the function in the carton markings shall include the following carton marking:

(2) Exception: For operators that automatically sense one piece door operation, this warning is not required.

(n) A residential garage door operator is not required to be provided with permanent wiring systems when marked with the following or equivalent text: "This operator not equipped for permanent wiring. Contact licensed electrician to install a suitable receptacle if one is not available." This marking is to be placed adjacent to the power cord entry.
