
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1211 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL GARAGE DOOR OPERATORS
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 1211.23 Certification testing.
####### Reasonable testing program.

(b)This paragraph provides guidance for establishing a reasonable testing program.

(1) A reasonable testing program for automatic residential garage door operators is one that provides reasonable assurance that the operators comply with the standard. Manufacturers and importers may define their own testing programs. Such reasonable testing programs may, at the option of manufacturers and importers, be conducted by an independent third party qualified to perform such testing programs.

(2) To conduct a reasonable testing program, the garage door operators should be divided into production lots. Sample operators from each production lot should be tested in accordance with the reasonable testing program so that there is a reasonable assurance that if the operators selected for testing meet the standard, all operators in the lot will meet the standard. Where there is a change in parts, suppliers of parts, or production methods that could affect the ability of the operator to comply with the requirements of the standard, the manufacturer should establish a new production lot for testing.

(3) The Commission will test for compliance with the standard by using the test procedures contained in the standard. However, a manufacturer's reasonable testing program may include either tests prescribed in the standard or any other reasonable test procedures.

(4) If the reasonable testing program shows that an operator does not comply with one or more requirements of the standard, no operator in the production lot can be certified as complying until all non-complying operators in the lot have been identified and destroyed or altered by repair, redesign, or use of a different material or components to the extent necessary to make them conform to the standard. The sale or offering for sale of garage door operators that do not comply with the standard is a prohibited act and a violation of section 19(a) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2068(a)), regardless of whether the operator has been validly certified.
