
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1212 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MULTI-PURPOSE LIGHTERS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Child-Resistance
###### ยง 1212.4 Test protocol.
####### Child test panel.

(a)(1) The test to determine if a multi-purpose lighter is resistant to successful operation by children uses a panel of children to test a surrogate multi-purpose lighter representing the production multi-purpose lighter. Written informed consent shall be obtained from a parent or legal guardian of a child before the child participates in the test.

(2) The test shall be conducted using at least one, but no more than two, 100-child test panels in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1212.4(f).

(3) The children for the test panel shall live within the United States.

(4) The age and sex distribution of each 100-child panel shall be:

(i) 30+/-2 children (20 +/-1 males; 10+/-1 females) 42 through 44 months old;

(ii) 40+/-2 children (26+/-1 males; 14+/-1 females) 45 through 48 months old;

(iii) 30+/-2 children (20+/-1 males; 10+/-1 females) 49 through 51 months old.

(5) No child with a permanent or temporary illness, injury, or handicap that would interfere with the child's ability to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall participate.

(6) Two children at a time shall participate in testing of surrogate multi-purpose lighters. Extra children whose results will not be counted in the test may be used if necessary to provide the required partner for test subjects, if the extra children are within the required age range and a parent or guardian of each such child has signed a consent form.

(7) No child shall participate in more than one test panel or test more than one surrogate multi-purpose lighter. No child shall participate in both surrogate multi-purpose lighter testing and either surrogate cigarette lighter testing or child-resistant package testing on the same day.
