
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1212 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MULTI-PURPOSE LIGHTERS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Child-Resistance
###### ยง 1212.4 Test protocol.
####### Test sites, environment, and adult testers.

(b)(1) Surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be tested within the United States at 5 or more test sites throughout the geographical area for each 100-child panel if the sites are the customary nursery schools or day care centers of the participating children. No more than 20 children shall be tested at each site. In the alternative, surrogate multi-purpose lighters may be tested within the United States at one or more central locations, provided the participating children are drawn from a variety of geographical locations.

(2) Testing of surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be conducted in a room that is familiar to the children on the test panel (for example, a room the children frequent at their customary nursery school or day care center). If the testing is conducted in a room that initially is unfamiliar to the children (for example, a room at a central location), the tester shall allow at least 5 minutes for the children to become accustomed to the new environment before starting the test. The area in which the testing is conducted shall be well-lighted and isolated from distractions. The children shall be allowed freedom of movement to work with their surrogate multi-purpose lighters, as long as the tester can watch both children at the same time. Two children at a time shall participate in testing of surrogate multi-purpose lighters. The children shall be seated side by side in chairs approximately 6 inches apart, across a table from the tester. The table shall be normal table height for the children, so that they can sit up at the table with their legs underneath and so that their arms will be at a comfortable height when on top of the table. The children's chairs shall be "child size."

(3) Each tester shall be at least 18 years old. Five or 6 adult testers shall be used for each 100-child test panel. Each tester shall test an approximately equal number of children from the 100-child test panel (20+/-2 children each for 5 testers and 17+/-2 children each for 6 testers).
