
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1212 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MULTI-PURPOSE LIGHTERS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Child-Resistance
###### ยง 1212.4 Test protocol.
####### Surrogate multi-purpose lighters.

(c)(1) Six surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be used for each 100-child panel. The six multi-purpose lighters shall represent the range of forces required for operation of multi-purpose lighters intended for use. All of these surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall have the same visual appearance, including color. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be labeled with sequential numbers beginning with the number one. The same six surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be used for the entire 100-child panel. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters may be used in more than one 100-child panel test. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall not be damaged or jarred during storage or transportation. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall not be exposed to extreme heat or cold. The surrogate multi-purpose lighters shall be tested at room temperature. No surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be left unattended.

(2) Each surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be tested by an approximately equal number of children in a 100-child test panel (17+/-2 children).

(3) Before each 100-child panel is tested, each surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be examined to verify that it approximates the appearance, size, shape, and weight of a production multi-purpose lighter intended for use.

(4) Before and after each 100-child panel is tested, force measurements shall be taken on all operating components that could affect child resistance to verify that they are within reasonable operating tolerances for the corresponding production multi-purpose lighter.

(5) Before and after testing surrogate multi-purpose lighters with each child, each surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be operated outside the presence of any child participating in the test to verify that it produces a signal. If the surrogate multi-purpose lighter will not produce a signal before the test, it shall be repaired before it is used in testing. If the surrogate multi-purpose lighter does not produce a signal when it is operated after the test, the results for the preceding test with that multi-purpose lighter shall be eliminated. An explanation shall be recorded on the data collection record. The multi-purpose lighter shall be repaired and tested with another eligible child (as one of a pair of children) to complete the test panel.
