
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1212 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MULTI-PURPOSE LIGHTERS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Child-Resistance
###### ยง 1212.4 Test protocol.
####### Encouragement.

(d)(1) Prior to the test, the tester shall talk to the children in a normal and friendly tone to make them feel at ease and to gain their confidence.

(2) The tester shall tell the children that he or she needs their help for a special job. The children shall not be promised a reward of any kind for participating, and shall not be told that the test is a game or contest or that it is fun.

(3) The tester shall not discourage a child from attempting to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter at any time (either verbally or with body language such as facial expressions), unless a child is in danger of hurting himself or another child. The tester shall not discuss the dangers of multi-purpose lighters or matches with the children to be tested prior to the end of the 10-minute test.

(4) Whenever a child has stopped attempting to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter for a period of approximately one minute, the tester shall encourage the child to try by saying "keep trying for just a little longer."

(5) Whenever a child says that his or her parent, grandparent, guardian, etc., said never to touch lighters, say "that's right-never touch a real lighter-but your [parent, etc.] said it was OK for you to try to make a noise with this special lighter because it can't hurt you."

(6) The children in a pair being tested may encourage each other to operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter and may tell or show each other how to operate it. (This interaction is not considered to be disruption as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.) However, neither child shall be allowed to touch or operate the other child's multi-purpose lighter. If one child takes the other child's surrogate multi-purpose lighter, that surrogate lighter shall be immediately returned to the proper child. If this occurs, the tester shall say "No. He (she) has to try to do it himself (herself)."
