
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1212 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MULTI-PURPOSE LIGHTERS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Child-Resistance
###### ยง 1212.4 Test protocol.
####### Test procedure.

(f)(1) To begin the test, the tester shall say "I have a special lighter that will not make a flame. It makes a noise like this." Except where doing so would block the child's view of a visual signal, the adult tester shall place a 8by 11 inch sheet of cardboard or other rigid opaque material upright on the table in front of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, so that the surrogate multi-purpose lighter cannot be seen by the child, and shall operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter once to produce its signal. The tester shall say "Your parents said it is OK for you to try to make that noise with your lighter." The tester shall place a surrogate multi-purpose lighter in each child's hand and say "now you try to make a noise with your lighter. Keep trying until I tell you to stop."

(2) The adult tester shall observe the children for 5 minutes to determine if either or both of the children can successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter by producing one signal of any duration. If a child achieves a spark without defeating the child-resistant feature, say "that's a spark-it won't hurt you-try to make a noise with your lighter." If any child successfully operates the surrogate multi-purpose lighter during this first 5-minute period, the lighter shall be taken from that child and the child shall not be asked to try to operate the lighter again. The tester shall ask the successful child to remain until the other child is finished.

(3) If either or both of the children are unable to successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter during the 5-minute period specified in ยง 1212.4(f) (3), the adult tester shall demonstrate the operation of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter. To conduct the demonstration, secure the children's full attention by saying "Okay, give me your lighter(s) now." Take the surrogate multi-purpose lighters and place them on the table in front of you out of the children's reach. Then say, "I'll show you how to make the noise with your lighters. First I'll show you with (child's name) lighter and then I'll show you with (child's name) lighter." Pick up the first child's surrogate multi-purpose lighter. Hold the lighter approximately 2 feet in front of the children at their eye level. Hold the surrogate multi-purpose lighter in a comfortable operating position in one hand so both children can see the operation of the child-resistant mechanism and the ignition mechanism during each demonstration. Say "now watch the lighter." Look at each child to verify that they are both looking at the lighter. Operate the multi-purpose lighter one time in a normal manner according to the manufacturer's instructions. Do not exaggerate operating movements. Do not verbally describe the lighter's operation. Place the first child's lighter back on the table in front of you and pick up the second child's lighter. Say, "Okay, now watch this lighter." Repeat the demonstration as described above using the second child's multi-purpose lighter.

(4) Each child who fails to successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter in the first 5 minutes is then given another 5 minutes in which to attempt to complete the successful operation of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter. After the demonstrations, give the same surrogate multi-purpose lighter back to each child who did not successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter in the first 5 minutes by placing the multi-purpose lighter in the child's hand. Say "Okay, now you try to make the noise with your lighter(s)-keep trying until I tell you to stop." If any child successfully operates the surrogate multi-purpose lighter during this period, the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be taken from that child and the child shall not be asked to try to operate the lighter again. If the other child has not yet successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the tester shall ask the successful child to remain until the other child is finished.

(5) At the end of the second 5-minute test period, take the surrogate multi-purpose lighter from any child who has not successfully operated it.

(6) After the test is over, ask the children to stand next to you. Look at the children's faces and say: "These are special lighters that don't make fire. Real lighters can burn you. Will you both promise me that if you find a real lighter you won't touch it and that you'll tell a grownup right away?" Wait for an affirmative response from each child; then thank the children for helping.

(7) Escort the children out of the room used for testing.

(8) After a child has participated in the testing of a surrogate multi-purpose lighter, and on the same day, provide written notice of that fact to the child's parent or guardian. This notification may be in the form of a letter provided to the school to be given to a parent or guardian of each child. The notification shall state that the child participated, shall ask the parent or guardian to warn the child not to play with lighters or matches, and shall remind the parent or guardian to keep all lighters and matches, whether child-resistant or not, out of the reach of children. For children who operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the notification shall state that the child was able to operate the child-resistant multi-purpose lighter. For children who do not defeat the child-resistant feature, the notification shall state that, although the child did not defeat the child-resistant feature, the child may be able to do so in the future.
