
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1212 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MULTI-PURPOSE LIGHTERS
##### Subpart A - Requirements for Child-Resistance
###### ยง 1212.4 Test protocol.
####### Evaluation of test results and acceptance criterion.

(h)To determine whether a surrogate multi-purpose lighter resists operation by at least 85% of the children, sequential panels of 100 children each, up to a maximum of 2 panels, shall be tested as prescribed below.

(1) If no more than 10 children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the multi-purpose lighter represented by the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be considered to be resistant to successful operation by at least 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted. If 11 through 18 children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the test results are inconclusive, and the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be tested with a second 100-child test panel in accordance with this ยง 1212.4. If 19 or more of the children in the first 100-child test panel successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the lighter represented by the surrogate shall be considered not resistant to successful operation by at least 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted.

(2)(i) If additional testing of the surrogate multi-purpose lighter is required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section, conduct the test specified by this ยง 1212.4 using a second 100-child test panel and record the results. If a total of no more than 30 of the children in the combined first and second 100-child test panels successfully operated the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the multi-purpose lighter represented by the surrogate multi-purpose lighter shall be considered resistant to successful operation by at least 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is performed. If a total of 31 or more children in the combined first and second 100-child test panels successfully operate the surrogate multi-purpose lighter, the multi-purpose lighter represented by the surrogate shall be considered not resistant to successful operation by 85% of the child test panel, and no further testing is conducted.

(ii) Thus, for the first panel of 100 children, the surrogate passes if there are 0-10 successful operations by the children; the surrogate fails if there are 19 or greater successful operations; and testing is continued if there are 11-18 successes. If testing is continued with a second panel of children, the surrogate passes if the combined total of the successful operations of the two panels is 30 or less, and it fails if there are 31 or more.
