
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Rules and Rulemaking Under Section 18(a)(1)(B) of the FTC Act
###### ยง 1.13 Conduct of informal hearing by the presiding officer.
####### Post-hearing review by the Commission of rulings by the presiding officer.

(e)(1) Within ten days of the completion of the informal hearing, any interested person may petition the Commission for review of a ruling by the presiding officer denying or limiting the petitioner's ability to conduct cross-examination or make rebuttal submissions upon a showing that the ruling precluded disclosure of a disputed material fact that was necessary for fair determination by the Commission of the rulemaking proceeding as a whole. Such petitions must not exceed eight thousand words. This word count limitation includes headings, footnotes, and quotations, but does not include the cover, table of contents, table of citations or authorities, glossaries, statements with respect to oral argument, any addendums containing statutes, rules or regulations, any certificates of counsel, or proposed form of order. A petition hereunder will not stay the rulemaking proceeding unless the Commission so orders. All petitions filed under this paragraph will be a part of the rulemaking record.

(2) The Commission may, in its discretion, hear the appeal. Commission review, if granted, will be based on the petition and anything on the rulemaking record, without oral argument or further briefs, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission. If the Commission grants review, it will render a decision within thirty days of the announcement of its decision to review unless, upon a showing of good cause, the Commission extends the number of days for review.
