
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1213 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR ENTRAPMENT HAZARDS IN BUNK BEDS
##### ยง 1213.3 Requirements.
###### Guardrails.

(a)(1) Any bunk bed shall provide at least two guardrails, at least one on each side of the bed, for each bed having the underside of its foundation more than 30 inches (760 mm) from the floor.

(2) One guardrail shall be continuous between each of the bed's end structures. "Continuous" means that any gap between the guardrail and end structure shall not exceed 0.22 inches (5.6 mm) (so as to not cause a finger entrapment hazard for a child).

(3) The other guardrail may terminate before reaching the bed's end structures, providing there is no more than 15 inches (380 mm) between either end of the guardrail and the nearest bed end structures.

(4) For bunk beds designed to have a ladder attached to one side of the bed, the continuous guardrail shall be on the other side of the bed.

(5) Guardrails shall be attached so that they cannot be removed without either intentionally releasing a fastening device or applying forces sequentially in different directions.

(6) The upper edge of the guardrails shall be no less than 5 inches (130 mm) above the top surface of the mattress when a mattress of the maximum thickness specified by the bed manufacturer's instructions is on the bed. This requirement does not prohibit a wall-side guardrail that terminates in a quarter-circle bend and attaches to the side rail of the upper bunk foundation.

(7) With no mattress on the bed, there shall be no openings in the structure between the lower edge of the uppermost member of the guardrail and the underside of the upper bunk's foundation that would permit passage of the wedge block shown in Figure 1 of this part when tested in accordance with the procedure at ยง 1213.4(a).
