
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1213 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR ENTRAPMENT HAZARDS IN BUNK BEDS
##### ยง 1213.4 Test methods.
###### Lower bunk end structure

(c)(see ยง 1213.3(b)(3)). (1) Without a mattress or foundation on the lower bunk, place the wedge block shown in Figure 1, tapered side first, into each opening in the lower bunk end structure in the most adverse orientation. Determine whether the wedge block can pass freely through the opening. If the wedge block passes freely through the opening, determine whether a 9-inch (230-mm) diameter rigid sphere can pass freely through the opening.

(2) With the manufacturer's recommended maximum thickness mattress and foundation in place, repeat the test in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) All portions of the boundary of any opening that is required to be probed by the wedge block of Figure 1 by paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, and that permits free passage of a 9-inch diameter sphere, must satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section addressing neck entrapment.

(i) Insert the "A" section of the test template shown in Figure 2 of this part into the portion of the boundary of the opening to be tested, with the plane of the template in the plane of the opening and with the centerline of the top of the template (as shown in Figure 2) aligned parallel to the centerline of the opening, until motion is stopped by contact between the test template and the boundaries of the opening (see Figure 3 of this part). By visual inspection, determine if there is simultaneous contact between the boundary of the opening and both sides of the "A" section of the template. If simultaneous contact occurs, mark the contact points on the boundary of the opening and conduct the additional test described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) To check the potential for neck entrapment, place the neck portion of the "B" section of the template into the opening, with its plane perpendicular to both the plane of the opening and the centerline of the opening (see Figure 4 of this part). If the neck portion of the "B" section of the template completely enters the opening (passes 0.75 inch or more beyond the points previously contacted by the "A" section of the template), the opening is considered to present a neck entrapment hazard and fails the test, unless its lower boundary slopes downward at 45&#xB0; or more for the whole distance from the narrowest part of the opening the neck can reach to the part of the opening that will freely pass a 9-inch diameter sphere.
