
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1213 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR ENTRAPMENT HAZARDS IN BUNK BEDS
##### Appendix to Part 1213 - Findings Under the Consumer Product Safety Act
###### The rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.

E.1. The Commission considered relying on the voluntary standard, either alone or combined with a third-party certification program. However, the Commission concluded that a mandatory program will be more effective in reducing these deaths, each of which is caused by an unreasonable risk of entrapment. Accordingly, these alternatives would not prevent or adequately reduce the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.

2. The Commission also considered a suggestion that bunk beds that conformed to the voluntary standard be so labeled. Consumers could then compare conforming and nonconforming beds at the point of purchase and make their purchase decisions with this safety information in mind. This, however, would not necessarily reduce injuries, because consumers likely would not know there is a voluntary standard and thus would not see any risk in purchasing a bed that was not labeled as conforming to the standard.

3. For the reasons stated in this appendix, no alternatives to a mandatory rule have been suggested that would adequately reduce the deaths caused by entrapment of children in bunk beds. Accordingly, the Commission finds that this rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.
