
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1218 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR BASSINETS AND CRADLES
##### ยง 1218.2 Requirements for bassinets and cradles.
###### http://www.astm.org/cpsc.htm.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each bassinet and cradle must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2194-13, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bassinets and Cradles, approved on April 1, 2013. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive, P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428;You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) Comply with ASTM F2194-13 standard with the following additions or exclusions:

(1) Instead of complying with Note 1 of section 1.3.1 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:

(i)-Cradle swings with an incline less than or equal to 10&#xB0; from horizontal while in the rest (non-rocking) position are covered under the scope of this standard. A sleep product that only has inclined sleeping surfaces (intended to be greater than 10&#xB0; from horizontal while in the rest (non-rocking) position) does not fall under the scope of this standard. If a product can be converted to a bassinet/cradle use mode and meets the definition of a bassinet/cradle found in 3.1.1 while in that mode, the product shall be included in the scope of this standard, when it is in the bassinet/cradle use mode. For example, strollers that have a carriage/bassinet feature are covered by the stroller/carriage standard when in the stroller use mode. Carriage baskets/bassinets that are removable from the stroller base are covered under the scope of this standard when the carriage basket/bassinet meets the definition of a bassinet/cradle found in 3.1.1. In addition, bassinet/cradle attachments to cribs or play yards, as defined in 3.1.2 or 3.1.13, are included in the scope of the standard when in the bassinet/cradle use mode.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) Add "CAMI Newborn Dummy (see Figure 1A). Drawing numbers 126-0000 through 126-0015 (sheets 1 through 3), 126-0017 through 126-0027, a parts list entitled "Parts List for CAMI Newborn Dummy," and a construction manual entitled "Construction of the Newborn Infant Dummy" (July 1992). Copies of the materials may be inspected at NHTSA's Docket Section, 400 Seventh Street SW., Room 5109, Washington, DC, or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capital Street NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC." to "2.3 Other References" and use the following figure:

(3) In addition to complying with section 3.1.17 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:
