
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1218 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR BASSINETS AND CRADLES
##### ยง 1218.2 Requirements for bassinets and cradles.
###### Removable Bassinet Bed Attachment

(i) 6.10.-Any product containing a removable bassinet bed with a latching or locking device intended to secure the bassinet bed to the base/stand, shall comply with at least one of the following 6.10.1, 6.10.2, 6.10.3, 6.10.4 or 6.10.5 when tested in accordance with 7.12.

(ii) 6.10.1. The base/stand shall not support the bassinet bed (i.e., the bassinet bed falls from the stand and contacts the floor or the base/stand collapses when the bassinet bed is not locked on the base/stand).

(iii) 6.10.2. The lock/latch shall automatically engage under the weight of the bassinet bed (without any other force or action) in all lateral positions (Figure 24).

(iv) 6.10.3. The sleep surface of the bassinet bed shall be at an angle of at least 20&#xB0; from a horizontal plane when the bassinet bed is in an unlocked position.

(v) 6.10.4. The bassinet/cradle shall provide a false latch/lock visual indicator(s). At a minimum, an indicator shall be visible to a person standing near both of the two longest sides of the product.

(vi) 6.10.5. The bassinet bed shall not tip over and shall retain the CAMI newborn dummy when tested in accordance with 7.12.4.3.

(6) Instead of complying with section 7.4.4 of ASTM F2194-13, comply with the following:

(i) 7.4.4. Place the CAMI Newborn Dummy, Mark II, on the sleeping pad in the center of the product face up with the arms and legs straightened.
