
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1218 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR BASSINETS AND CRADLES
##### ยง 1218.2 Requirements for bassinets and cradles.
###### Removable Bassinet Bed Attachment Tests

(i) 7.12.

(ii) 7.12.1. Assemble the bassinet/cradle base/stand only, in accordance with manufacturer's instructions in one of the manufacturer's recommended use positions. If the base/stand does not remain in the use position when the bassinet bed is not locked onto it, the product meets the requirements of 6.10.1.

(iii) 7.12.2. Place the base/stand and the inclinometer on a flat level horizontal surface (0 +/--0.5&#xB0;) to establish a test plane. Zero the inclinometer.

(iv) 7.12.3. Remove the mattress pad from the bassinet bed.

(v) 7.12.4. Place the bassinet bed on the base/stand in the intended use orientation without engaging any latch or lock mechanism between the base/stand and the bassinet bed. If the bed automatically engages to the base/stand do not disengage the lock/latch. If the bassinet bed can rest on the base/stand in its intended use orientation in one or more lateral unlocked position (Figure 24), the unit shall be evaluated in the lateral position most likely to fail the requirements specified in 6.10.

(vi) Figure 24: Bassinet Bed Resting on Stand, Showing Possible Alternate Lateral Positions.

(vii) 7.12.4.1. If the base/stand supports the bassinet bed in any unlocked position, place the inclinometer on the mattress support at the approximate center of the mattress support. Care should be taken to avoid seams, snap fasteners, or other items that may affect the measurement reading. Record the angle measurement.

(viii) 7.12.4.2. If the base/stand supports the bassinet bed and the angle of the mattress support surface measured in 7.12.4.1 is less than 20 degrees from a horizontal plane, evaluate whether the bassinet has a false latch/lock visual indicator per 6.10.4.

(ix) 7.12.4.3. If the base/stand supports the bassinet bed, and the angle of the mattress support surface measured in 7.12.4.1 is less than 20 degrees from a horizontal plane, and the bassinet does not contain a false latch/lock visual indicator, test the unit in accordance with sections 7.4.2 through 7.4.7.

(x) 7.12.5. Repeat 7.12.2 through 7.12.4 for all of the manufacturer's base/stand recommended positions and use modes.

(xi) 7.12.6. Repeat 7.12.4 through 7.12.5 with the bassinet bed rotated 180 degrees from the manufacturers recommended use orientation, if the base/stand supports the bassinet bed in this orientation.
