
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1222 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR BEDSIDE SLEEPERS
##### ยง 1222.2 Requirements for bedside sleepers.
###### http://www.astm.org/cpsc.htm.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each bedside sleeper must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2906-13, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Bedside Sleepers, approved on July 1, 2013. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive, P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428;You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) Comply with ASTM F2906-13 with the following changes:

(1) Instead of complying with section 5.1 of ASTM F2906-13, comply with the following:

(i) Prior to or immediately after testing to this consumer safety specification, the bedside sleeper must be tested to 16 CFR part 1218. Multimode products must also be tested to each applicable standard. When testing to 16 CFR part 1218 the unit shall be freestanding, and not be secured to the test platform as dictated elsewhere in this standard.

(ii) 5.1.1 The bassinet minimum side height shall be as required in 16 CFR part 1218, with the exception of a lowered side rail as permitted in 5.4.

(2) Instead of complying with section 7.1 of ASTM F2906-13, comply with the following:

(i) All bedside sleeper products shall comply with the marking and labeling requirements of 16 CFR part 1218.

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Instead of complying with section 8.1 of ASTM F2906-13, comply with the following:

(i) All bedside sleeper products shall comply with the instructional literature requirements of 16 CFR part 1218.

(ii) [Reserved]
