
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1241 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR CRIB MATTRESSES
##### ยง 1241.2 Requirements for crib mattresses.
###### Pad Thickness for Fabric or Mesh Sided Products; Pad dimensions; Side Height; Bassinets with Segmented Mattresses.

(iv) 5.9.1.2 If the aftermarket mattress is intended to be used in the bassinet of a play yard with a bassinet attachment, the mattress shall also meet the specifications of the following sections of 16 CFR part 1218, Safety Standard for Bassinets and Cradles, when tested with each brand and model for which it is intended to replace the mattress:This section applies only to a play yard mattress that is interchangeably used as a play yard mattress and as a bassinet mattress/pad.

(6) Add the following paragraphs to section 5 of ASTM F2933-21:

(i) 5.10 Mattress Firmness.

(ii) 5.10.1 All crib mattresses within the scope of this standard, when tested in accordance with 6.3, the feeler arm shall not contact the sleep surface of the crib mattress.

(iii) 5.11 Coil Springs. The requirements in this section only pertain to crib mattresses with coil springs.

(iv) 5.11.1 When tested in accordance with 6.4, there shall be no exposed coil springs or metal wires.

(7) Renumber section 6.2.2 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.

(8) Renumber section 6.2.2.1 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.1.

(9) Renumber section 6.2.2.2 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.2.

(10) Renumber section 6.2.2.3 of ASTM F2933-21 to section 6.2.3.3.

(11) Renumber section 6.2.2.4 of ASTM F2933021 to section 6.2.3.4.

(12) Add the following paragraphs to section 6.2.3 of ASTM F2933021:

(i) 6.2.3.5 The test mattress sheet shall be placed on the mattress such that each sheet edge is wrapped fully around and under the mattress.

(ii) 6.2.3.6 Repeat step 6.2.3.2. Then measure the shortest gap between the mattress and the projected crib corner after the dimensions of the mattress have been recorded. The projected crib corner is located 53 in. +/-in. (1346 mm +/- 3.2 mm) from Wall C and 28in. +/-in. (727 mm +/- 3.2 mm) from Wall D, as shown in Fig. 2. The mattress shall not be moved during measurement. This shall be the corner gap measurement.

(iii) 6.2.3.7 Rotate the mattress 180&#xB0; such that the opposing corner is adjacent to Walls C and D, then repeat 6.2.3.6.

(13) Instead of complying with section 6.2.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
