
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1241 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR CRIB MATTRESSES
##### ยง 1241.2 Requirements for crib mattresses.
###### Test Method:

(vi) 6.3.2

(vii) 6.3.2.1 Mattresses that are supplied with a product shall be tested when positioned on that product. Mattresses sold independent of a product, shall be tested on a flat, rigid, horizontal support. After-market mattresses for play yards and non-full-size cribs shall be tested with each brand and model of product it is intended to replace.

(viii) 6.3.2.2 Where a user of a mattress could possibly position either side face up, even if this is not an intended use, then both sides of the mattress shall be tested.

(ix) 6.3.2.3 Before testing each mattress, the following steps shall be followed:

(A) Verify there is no excess moisture in the mattress, beyond reasonable laboratory humidity levels.

(B) Allow sufficient time per the manufacturer's instructions to fully inflate, if shipped in a vacuum sealed package.

(C) Shake and or agitate the mattress in order to fully aerate and distribute all internal components evenly.

(D) Place the mattress in the manufacturer's recommended use position if there is one, in the supplied product, or on a flat, rigid, horizontal support.

(E) Let the mattress rest for at least 5 minutes.

(F) Mark a longitudinal centerline on the mattress sleep surface, and divide this line in half. This point will be the first test location. Then further divide the two lines on either side of the first test location into halves. These will be the second and third test locations.

(x) 6.3.2.4. Position the test fixture on each of the test locations, with the footprint of the fixture centered on the location, with the bar extending over the centerline and always pointing at the same end of the mattress sleep surface.

(A) At each test location in turn, rotate the bar to point in the required direction, and gently set the fixture down on the mattress sleep surface, ensuring that the footprint of the fixture does not extend beyond the edge of the mattress. The fixture shall be placed as horizontal as possible, using the level to verify. If the bar makes contact with the top of the mattress sleep surface, even slightly, the mattress is considered to have failed the test.

(B) Repeat Step (A) at the remaining locations identified in 6.3.2.3(F).
