
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1241 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR CRIB MATTRESSES
##### ยง 1241.2 Requirements for crib mattresses.
###### e.g.

(C) Repeat Step (A) at a location away from the centerline most likely to fail (a very soft spot on the sleep surface or at a raised portion of the sleep surface). In the case of testing a raised portion of a sleep surface, position center of the fixture such that the bar is over the raised portion, to simulate the position of an infant's nose.

(D) In the event that the fixture is not resting in a nearly horizontal orientation, repeat the test procedure at that location by beginning again from paragraph (b)(14)(x)(A). However, if the test produces a fail even with the device tilted back away from the bar so as to raise it, then a fail can be recorded.

(15) Add the following paragraphs as section 6.4 of ASTM F2933-21:

(i) 6.4 Coil Spring Test.

(ii) 6.4.1 General-This test consists of dropping a specified weight repeatedly onto the mattress. The test assists in evaluating the structural integrity of a mattress with coil springs.

(iii) 6.4.2 Test Fixture:

(iv) 6.4.2.1 A guided free-fall impacting system machine (which keeps the upper surface of the impact mass parallel to the horizontal surface on which the crib is secured) (See Fig. 4).

(v) 6.4.2.2 A 30-lb (13.6-kg) impact mass (see Fig. 5 and Fig. 6).

(vi) 6.4.2.3 A 6-in. (150-mm) long gauge.

(vii) 6.4.2.4 An enclosed frame measuring 29 inches by 53 inches (737 mm by 1346 mm) for the purpose of restricting mattress movement. When testing full-size mattresses, a full-size crib meeting the requirements of ASTM F1169-19 would suffice.

(viii) 6.4.2.5 A&#x2033; piece of plywood or oriented strand board (OSB) that is rigidly supported along the perimeter.
