
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1241 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR CRIB MATTRESSES
##### ยง 1241.2 Requirements for crib mattresses.
###### Test Method:

(ix) 6.4.3

(x) 6.4.3.1 Place the mattress on the wooden support and inside the enclosed frame.

(xi) 6.4.3.2 Position geometric center of the impact mass above the geometric center of the test mattress.

(xii) 6.4.3.3 Adjust the distance between the top surface of the mattress and bottom surface of the impact mass to 6 in. (150 mm) (using the 6-in. (150-mm) long gauge, per 6.4.2.3) when the impact mass is in its highest position. Lock the impactor mechanism at this height and do not adjust the height during impacting to compensate for any change in distance as a result of the mattress compressing or the mattress support deforming or moving during impacting.

(xiii) 6.4.3.4 Allow the 30-lb (13.6-kg) impact mass to fall freely 250 times at the rate of one impact every 4 s. Load retraction shall not begin until at least 2 s after the start of the drop.

(xiv) 6.4.3.5 Repeat the step described in 6.4.3.4 at the other test locations shown in Fig. 7.

(xv) 6.4.4 The coil spring test shall be repeated on each surface of the mattress. The test shall not be repeated using a mattress that has been previously tested with the coil spring test.

(16) Add the following Figures to section 6 of ASTM F2933-21:

(i) Figure 2.

(ii) Figure 3.

(iii) Figure 4.

(iv) Figure 5.

(v) Figure 6.

(vi) Figure 7.

(17) Instead of complying with sections 7.1 and 7.2 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:

(i) 7.1 Each mattress and its retail package shall be marked or labeled clearly and legibly to indicate the following:

(ii) 7.1.1 The name, place of business (city, state, and mailing address, including zip code), and telephone number of the manufacturer, distributor, or seller.

(iii) 7.1.2 A code mark or other means that identifies the date (month and year at a minimum) of manufacture.

(iv) 7.2 The marking and labeling on the product shall be permanent.

(18) Do not comply with sections 7.2.1, 7.2.2, 7.2.2.1, 7.2.2.2, and 7.2.2.3 of ASTM F2933-21.

(19) Instead of complying with sections 7.3, 7.3.1, 7.3.2, and 7.3.3 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:

(i) 7.3 Any upholstery labeling required by law shall not be used to meet the requirements of this section.

(ii) [Reserved]

(20) Instead of complying with sections 7.4 and 7.4.1 of ASTM F2933-21, comply with the following:
