
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1241 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR CRIB MATTRESSES
##### ยง 1241.2 Requirements for crib mattresses.
###### For Rigid Sided Rectangular Products

(vi) 7.7.4-the following statement shall appear exactly as stated in this paragraph (b)(22)(vi) (the blanks are to be filled in as appropriate).

This mattress measures ____ long, ____ wide, and ____ thick when measured from seam to seam.

(23) Add the following paragraphs as section 7.8 of ASTM F2933-21:

(i) 7.8 Warning Design for Retail Packages.

(ii) 7.8.1 The warnings and statements are not required on the retail package if they are on the mattress and are visible in their entirety through the retail package. Cartons and other materials used exclusively for shipping the mattress are not considered retail packaging.

(iii) 7.8.2 Warning Statements-Each mattress' retail package shall have statements to address the following, at a minimum, and as specified in 7.4.1, 7.4.2, and 7.4.4-7.4.6.

(iv) 7.8.2.1 For full-size crib mattresses, each mattress' retail package shall be labeled with the warnings and statements specified in 7.5 and 7.5.1.

(v) 7.8.2.2 For non-full-size crib mattresses and after-market mattresses for play yards and non-full-size cribs, each mattress' retail package shall be labeled with the warnings and statements specified in 7.5, 7.5.2, 7.7.1-7.7.4, as applicable.

(24) Add the following figures to section 7 of ASTM F2933-21:

(i) Figure 8.

(ii) Figure 9.

(iii) Figure 10.

(iv) Figure 11.

(25) Redesignate section 8 of ASTM F2933-21 as section 9.

(26) Add a new section 8 of ASTM F2933-21:
