
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1262 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MAGNETS
##### ยง 1262.5 Findings.
###### Degree and nature of the risk of injury.

(b)(1) The standard is designed to reduce the risk of death and injury associated with magnet ingestions. There were an estimated 26,600 magnet ingestions were treated in hospital EDs from January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2021. There were an estimated 5,000 magnet ingestions treated in U.S. hospital EDs between January 1, 2010, and December 31, 2021, that involved in-scope identified subject magnet products, and an additional estimated 20,000 ED-treated magnet ingestions involving unidentified magnet products, which are likely to have involved subject magnet products. There were an estimated 2,500 ED-treated ingestions of magnets from identified magnet products in year 2021, higher than the majority of the preceding years, including 2018 through 2020. In this same period, January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2021, there were an estimated 286 CPSRMS-reported magnet ingestions involving identified subject magnet products and 76 CPSRMS-reported magnet ingestions involving unidentified subject magnet products. In addition, based on NEISS annual estimates from 2017-2021, ICM showed that there were an additional estimated 263 magnet ingestion injuries per year involving identified subject magnet products, which were treated in medical settings other than EDs (185 injuries treated outside of hospitals and 78 resulted in direct hospital admission).

(2) The potential injuries when a child or teen ingests one or more hazardous magnets are serious. Health threats posed by hazardous magnet ingestion include pressure necrosis, volvulus, bowel obstruction, bleeding, fistulae, ischemia, inflammation, perforation, peritonitis, sepsis, ileus, ulceration, aspiration, and death, among others. These conditions can result from magnets attracting to each other through internal body tissue, or a single magnet attracting to a ferromagnetic object. CPSC is aware of serious injuries and several fatal magnet ingestion incidents that occurred in the United States, resulting from internal interaction of magnets.
