
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1262 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MAGNETS
##### ยง 1262.5 Findings.
###### The need of the public for subject magnet products and the effects of the rule on their cost, availability, and utility.

(d)(1) Consumers use subject magnet products for entertainment, mental stimulation, stress relief, and jewelry. The rule requires subject magnet products to meet performance requirements regarding size or strength, but it does not restrict the design of products. As such, subject magnet products that meet the standard can continue to serve the purpose of amusement or jewelry for consumers. Magnets that comply with the performance requirements of the rule, such as non-separable magnets, larger magnets, weaker magnets, or non-permanent magnets, may be useful for amusement or jewelry. However, it is possible that there may be some negative effect on the utility of subject magnet products if compliant products function differently or do not include certain desired characteristics.

(2) Retail prices of subject magnet products generally average under $20. CPSC has identified subject magnet products that comply with the rule, and the prices of compliant and non-compliant products are comparable.

(3) If the costs associated with redesigning or modifying subject magnet products to comply with the rule results in manufacturers discontinuing products, there may be some loss in availability to consumers. However, this would be mitigated to the extent that compliant products meet the same consumer needs, and there are compliant products currently available for sale to consumers.

(4) Manufacturers may sell complying products to mitigate costs. In addition to products that comply with the performance requirements, there are products that are not subject to the performance requirements. Products sold and/or distributed solely to school educators, researchers, professionals, and/or commercial or industrial users exclusively for educational, research, professional, commercial, and/or industrial purposes are not subject magnet products, and firms may continue to manufacture, sell, and distribute such magnet products.
