
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1262 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MAGNETS
##### ยง 1262.5 Findings.
###### Unreasonable risk.

(f)(1) Incident data indicate that there were an estimated 25,000 magnet ingestions treated in U.S. hospital EDs from January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2021, which involved in-scope magnet products. Of these estimated 25,000 ED-treated magnet ingestions, an estimated 5,000 involved in-scope identified subject magnet products, and an estimated 20,000 involved "unidentified" magnet product types that, based on incident data and factors considered by the Commission, are likely to be subject magnet products. During 2017 through 2021, based on the NEISS annual estimate of about 481 magnet injuries initially treated in hospital EDs involving in-scope identified magnets there were 320 injuries that were treated and released and 161 injuries that required hospitalization. Additionally, based on estimates from the ICM, 185 injuries were treated outside of hospitals annually and another 78 injuries resulted in direct hospital admission. These incidents indicate the frequency with which children and teens ingest magnets, and the need to address the magnet ingestion hazard.

(2) The potential injuries when a person ingests one or more magnets are serious. Health threats posed by magnet ingestion include pressure necrosis, volvulus, bowel obstruction, bleeding, fistulae, ischemia, inflammation, perforation, peritonitis, sepsis, ileus, ulceration, aspiration, and death, among others. These conditions can result from magnets attracting to each other through internal body tissue, or a single magnet attracting to a ferromagnetic object. Magnet ingestion incidents commonly result in hospitalization, particularly when subject magnet products are ingested. The Commission is aware of serious injuries as well as five fatal magnet ingestion incidents that occurred in the United States between November 24, 2005, and January 5, 2021. Four of these incidents involved children 2 years old or younger, and all five victims died from injuries resulting from internal interaction of the magnets. Four of the five incidents identified the products as magnet sets, amusement products, or described them as having characteristics that are consistent with subject magnet products.
