
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1262 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MAGNETS
##### ยง 1262.5 Findings.
###### Zen Magnets, LLC,Consumer Prod. Safety Comm'n.,

(3) CPSC's trend analysis of the incident data indicates that magnet ingestions have significantly increased in recent years. In 2014, Commission issued a rule that applied to magnet sets, which are a subset of the subject magnet products addressed in this rule. The 2014 magnet sets rule took effect in April 2015 and remained in effect until it was vacated and remanded by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit Court in November 2016.v.841 F.3d 1141 (10th Cir. 2016). ED-treated ingestions of magnets from subject magnet products continued to rise since the 2014 magnets set rule was vacated. A review of the annual estimates for ED-treated, magnet ingestions by year, from 2010 through 2021 showed that magnet ingestions are higher for the 2017 through 2021 period, than the previous periods, with more in-scope magnet ingestions in 2021 (2,500) than most of the preceding years, including 2018 through 2020. To assess these trends further, CPSC grouped the years in relation to the vacated 2014 magnet sets rule, using three separate periods. CPSC reviewed the magnet ingestions treated in U.S. hospital EDs for the periods 2010 through 2013 (years prior to the announcement of the 2014 magnet sets rule), 2014 through 2016 (years when the 2014 magnet sets rule was announced and in effect), and 2017 through 2021 (years after the magnet set rule was vacated). For 2010-2013, there were approximately 2,300 ED-treated magnet ingestion incidents per year; for 2014-2016, there were an approximately 1,300 ED-treated magnet ingestion incidents per year; for 2017-2021, there were approximately 2,400 ED-treated magnet ingestion incidents per year. Thus, during the period when the 2014 magnet sets rule was announced and in effect (2014-2016), magnet injury ingestion estimates are lowest by a significant margin, compared with the earlier and more recent periods. CPSRMS data also showed a similar decline in incidents for the period when the magnet sets rule was announced and in effect. CPSC's assessment of incident data, as well as other researchers' assessments of NEISS data, and national poison center data, all indicated that magnet ingestion cases significantly declined during the years when the 2014 magnet sets rule was announced and in effect, compared to the periods before and after the 2014 magnet sets rule.

(4) For these reasons, the Commission finds that the rule is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product.
