
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1262 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MAGNETS
##### ยง 1262.5 Findings.
###### Relationship of benefits to costs.

(i)(1) CPSC estimates that aggregate annual societal costs from ingestion injuries involving subject magnet products for 2017 through 2021 totaled $51.8 million, even when ingestion injuries involving unidentified magnet products are excluded. The expected costs of the rule include the lost value experienced by consumers who would no longer be able to purchase subject magnet products with loose or separable hazardous magnets, as well as the lost profits to firms that could not produce and sell non-complying products in the future. Estimates of consumer and producer surplus range from about $2 million to $3.5 million to about $20 million to $35 million, based on unit sales ranging from 100,000 to 1 million. If annual unit sales of non-complying subject magnet products are 500,000, expected aggregate benefits from the rule would total $51.8 million annually as noted above; costs (lost consumer and producer surplus) would range from $10 million to $17.5 million annually. Thus, the benefits of the rule would greatly exceed the costs.

(2) If unidentified magnet products involved in ingestion injuries, which are also likely to be subject magnet products, are considered as well, average annual societal costs for 2017 through 2021 would increase by $167.9 million. A sensitivity analysis shows that adding even a relatively small portion of NEISS cases involving unidentified magnet products to the base case substantially increases the estimated gross benefits of the rule. Although CPSC's analysis of the data, the trends in NEISS, CPSRMS, and poison center-reported, magnet-related incidents support the conclusion that the unidentified magnet products generally involved magnets considered within the scope of the rule, because CPSC does not know precisely how many of these products would fall within the scope of this rule, CPSC has not included them in the primary benefit analysis. Instead, CPSC includes the benefits from unidentified magnet products in this final rule's sensitivity analysis to illustrate the theoretical upper bounds of benefits from this rule. Theoretically, including 100 percent of these societal costs with those estimated for identified subject magnet products ($51.8 million) could yield average annual societal costs of magnet ingestion injuries of $219.7 million for the period 2017 through 2021.
