
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1262 - SAFETY STANDARD FOR MAGNETS
##### ยง 1262.5 Findings.
###### Least burdensome requirement that would adequately reduce the risk of injury.

(j)CPSC considered several less-burdensome alternatives to the rule.

(1) One alternative is to take no regulatory action and, instead, rely on existing standards to address the magnet ingestion hazard. This alternative would reduce the burden associated with the rule by avoiding a mandatory standard, but it is unlikely to adequately address the magnet ingestion hazard due to the limited scope and requirements of existing standards and uncertainty regarding compliance with them.

(2) Another alternative is a mandatory standard with less stringent requirements than the proposed rule, such as a higher flux index limit, or different requirements for certain shapes and sizes of magnets. This could reduce the burden associated with a rule by allowing firms to market a wider variety of products than under the rule. However, this alternative would reduce the safety benefits because allowing certain hazardous magnets in subject magnet products to remain on the market does not address the hazard such products pose.

(3) Safety messaging is another alternative to the rule. This alternative would reduce the burdens associated with the rule because it would not require modifying or discontinuing subject magnet products, and the costs of such warnings and instructional information likely would be small. However, this alternative is not likely to adequately reduce the magnet ingestion hazard. Incident data shows children commonly access ingested magnets from sources that do not include the product packaging where warnings are provided. Incident data, behavioral and developmental factors, and other information indicate that children and caregivers commonly disregard safety messaging regarding the magnet ingestion hazard. Finally, this approach has not been effective at adequately reducing the hazard, to date.

(4) Another alternative is to require special packaging to limit children's access to subject magnet products. Although this alternative would create some packaging costs, those costs likely would be lower than the costs of the rule because this alternative would allow subject magnet products to remain unchanged. However, this alternative is not likely to adequately reduce the risk of injury and death associated with magnet ingestions. Consumers are unlikely to repackage all magnets after each use, given the small size and large number of magnets in products, the potential to lose magnets, and consumers' underappreciation of the hazard. In addition, commercially reasonable packaging requirements would only prevent young children (typically, children under 5 years old) from accessing the product, not older children, or teens, who are involved in the majority of magnet ingestion incidents.

(5) Another alternative is to require subject magnet products to be coated with aversive agents. This alternative would reduce the burden associated with the rule because it would allow firms to continue to sell subject magnet products and the costs of such coatings likely would be small. However, such requirements are not likely to adequately address the hazard because they do not address ingestions that occur when the first magnet is placed in the victim's mouth, before the aversive agent is detected, accidental ingestions, or children who are developmentally inclined to place objects in their mouths.

(6) Another alternative is to provide a later effective date for the final rule. This may reduce the burdens associated with the rule by spreading them over a longer period, but it would also delay the safety benefits of the rule.

(7) For these reasons, the Commission finds that the rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury associated with magnet ingestions.
