
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1302 - BAN OF EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE CONTACT ADHESIVES
##### ยง 1302.5 Findings.
###### Degree of the risk of injury presented by extremely flammable contact adhesives.

(1)(i) In October 1976, the Commission's staff prepared a report entitled Hazard Analysis on Contact Adhesive Fires. According to the Hazard Analysis, three factors that measure burn severity are percent of body burned, days hospitalized, and whether clothing ignition occurs. Injury data sources summarized in the Hazard Analysis reveal that contact adhesive fires often result in a high percent of body burned, result in many days hospitalized, and usually involve clothing ignition burns.

(ii) The American Burn Association (ABA) participated in a special survey with the Commission to obtain an estimate of the incidence and severity of burns associated with the use of contact adhesive cements. In January 1976, the President of the ABA sent a letter to the 1,300 ABA members asking the members to record any thermal injuries or deaths that have occurred between January 1975 and March 1976 associated with contact adhesives. In November 1976, the Chairman of the ABA Committee on Burn Prevention submitted a statement to the Commission estimating that between 45 and 125 contact adhesive related injuries are treated annually in hospital emergency rooms. Although ABA members reported an annual rate of 20 severe burn injuries for the January 1975 to March 1976 period, the actual rate of severe burn injuries may be higher, since only approximately 400 hospitals, less than 10 percent of the country's short-term hospitals, are represented in ABA membership. The results of the ABA survey, as reported by the ABA Chairman, showed that the injuries treated by members resulted in an average hospitalization of 42 days, almost double the length of stay for all burn victims in special facilities for burns. According to the ABA Chairman, when a burn victim experiences such a lengthy stay, it is an indication of very severe injury and predicts a lengthy period of recuperation and potentially permanent physical and psychological consequences.

(iii) The Hazard Analysis prepared by the Commission's staff also contains a summary of the results of the ABA survey. According to the Commission's staff, the ABA survey revealed 33 incidents with sufficient details for analysis. Nine of the victims died from their burns and 21 were hospitalized. The average body area burned was 40 percent. In addition, the victims' clothing ignited on all except three of the 33 victims.

(iv) The Hazard Analysis also contains a summary of contact adhesive related fires in the National Fire Protection Association's (NFPA) Fire Incident Data Organization (FIDO), a computerized file of fire experience that includes data collected from 1971 to 1975. The NFPA files contained reports of 38 fires from 1971 to 1975, seven of which occurred in residences. These seven fires resulted in injuries to fifteen persons and deaths to three persons.

(v) In addition to the above injury information, the Hazard Analysis also indicates that the Commission has received three death certificates specifying the involvement of an adhesive.

(vi) According to the hazard analysis, after cases from the various data sources were verified as being mutually exclusive, at least 130 persons have been injured in contact adhesive fires since 1970. Fifteen of these persons subsequently died from the injuries they sustained in these accidents.

(vii) Technical analysis of extremely flammable contact adhesives by the Commission's staff indicates that the degree of the hazard associated with these products is such that as little as one pint of extremely flammable contact adhesive may produce a substantial explosion hazard.
