
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1302 - BAN OF EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE CONTACT ADHESIVES
##### ยง 1302.5 Findings.
###### Nature of the risk of injury presented by flammable contact adhesives.

(2)(i) Technical analysis of these substances by the Commission's staff indicates that extremely flammable contact adhesives have a low flash point (20 &#xB0;F or below), a rapid evaporation rate (as a result of a high percentage of solvents, 70-90 percent by weight), a low percentage of solids, 10-30 percent by weight, and a low wet-viscosity (300-6,000 centipoise when measured by an RVF Brookfield viscometer).

(ii) Flash point, viscosity, low solid to high solvent ratio, evaporation rate, size of the application area, and rate of application are factors which determine the potential for creating an ignitable vapor situation. The rapid rate of evaporation of extremely volatile, low flash point solvents from extremely flammable contact adhesives is capable of creating a highly explosive atmosphere. The flammable nature of these contact adhesives is such that the vaporized solvents from these products can be ignited by a sparking electric motor or an overlooked pilot light in an area remote from the site of use. Analysis of actual injury reports by the Commission's staff reveals that extremely flammable contact adhesives have, in fact, been ignited by many ignition sources including oven and stove pilot lights, water heater and furnace pilot lights, electric space heaters (without any visible flame), sparks from a refrigerator motor and a wall receptacle, and friction. Analysis of available injury reports has shown that these ignition sources are frequently located in areas of the house remote from the room in which the contact adhesive is being used.

(iii) The possibility of ignition from a source in another room or another part of the house may well be overlooked by the public, in spite of warnings on the label of the product. Ignition of the vapors may result in a sudden, flash back fire from the source of vapor ignition to the container of adhesive with little or no warning to the consumer and with the potential for serious or fatal injury to the user or bystanders. The injury information available to the Commission shows that the vast majority of accidents occur while the product is being used for its intended purpose. The potential for serious injury, therefore, appears to be present during normal use of the product.

(iv) Although the Commission has in the past required the extremely flammable contact adhesives now subject to this ban to bear minimum cautionary labeling for the hazard caused by the extreme flammability of the mixture, the Commission finds that this cautionary labeling is inadequate to protect the public. An analysis prepared by the Commission staff of the available injury data indicates that in spite of the cautionary labeling, accidents have continued to occur, inflicting serious injuries in much the same manner as those accidents that occurred prior to the issuance of the 1970 labeling regulation. The cautionary labeling presently required could be revised to include more explicit and graphic warnings. However, as a result of the degree and nature of the risk of injury presented by the product, this labeling would also provide inadequate protection to the public. The degree and nature of the risk of injury is such that a bystander or visitor could present an ignition source resulting in an accident. Since the bystander or visitor would not normally have an opportunity to read the warning label on the product, additional labeling would not benefit these potential victims. The possibility of ignition from a source in another room or another part of the house may well be overlooked by the public, in spite of warnings on the label of the product.
