
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1302 - BAN OF EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE CONTACT ADHESIVES
##### ยง 1302.5 Findings.
###### Products subject to this ban.

(b)(1) The products banned by this rule are listed in ยง 1302.1.

(2) The Commission finds that the types of products subject to this ban are those contact adhesives that are extremely flammable and are packaged in containers of more than one-half pint. The average annual consumption of all types of contact adhesives in the United States is estimated at approximately 25 million gallons. Of this, it is estimated that 4-5 million gallons are sold in containers of 1 gallon or less, the sizes consumers generally buy. Professional users are estimated to purchase about half of the contact adhesives in this size range with most purchases probably of gallon containers. Therefore, consumers probably purchase 2-2.5 million gallon of all contact adhesives, most of which is estimated to be in quart containers, and a smaller amount in containers of one pint or less.

(3) In early 1976, contact adhesive sales were estimated as 80 percent extremely flammable, 10 percent chlorinated-solvent based, and 10 percent water-based. Since that time, a flammable petroleum solvent based contact adhesive has been developed and there has been a trend away from extremely flammable to flammable and nonflammable for consumer use. Although this trend is evident, reliable estimates of current market shares are not available. A rough estimate would be that perhaps 50 percent of contact adhesives in container sizes of more than one-half pint to 1 gallon are extremely flammable.

(c) Need of the public for the products and effects of the rule on their utility, cost, and availability.
