
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1302 - BAN OF EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE CONTACT ADHESIVES
##### ยง 1302.5 Findings.
###### Probable effects of the ban on the utility of contact adhesives.

(2)Of the three general types of contact adhesive other than extremely flammable contact adhesives, flammable and non-flammable (chlorinated) contact adhesives have about the same general performance characteristics as extremely flammable contact adhesives. Therefore, because these two products are available to the public, the Commission believes the ban will have little impact on the utility of contact adhesives. In terms of performance characteristics, there is little difference between flammable and extremely flammable contact adhesives. Although the extremely flammable product requires approximately 10 minutes of drying time before the item can be bonded, the flammable product requires about 20 minutes. This difference in time is not likely to be significant for most consumers who do ordinary home improvement or repair work. The performance characteristics of non-flammable chlorinated based contact adhesives are similar to those of the extremely flammable type for most applications. Non-flammable chlorinated based contact adhesives may be unacceptable for applications involving leather. Water based contact adhesives may not be as satisfactory, in terms of performance characteristics, as the other contact adhesives. The drying time for water-based contact adhesives varies with humidity. Although manufacturers of water-based neoprene contact adhesives claim that their products will dry in 30 minutes, for most of the country a drying time from one to four hours is probably more realistic. It is possible that the adhesive will never dry in some areas of the country with very high humidity. The time needed for the adhesive to adhere after joining (open time) will also vary with the humidity. Water-based acrylic contact adhesives are similar to neoprene type adhesives in terms of the effect of humidity on drying time. The neoprene and acrylic based adhesives are not completely satisfactory for binding some substances with non-porous surfaces, such as metals. In addition, the water in these adhesives might have an adverse effect on leather. Neoprene water-based adhesives may become unstable if frozen and thawed several times. This may occur during shipping or storage in some areas of the country during deaths associated with the extreme winter. To the extent that injuries and flammable contact adhesives are reduced or eliminated as a result of the ban, the utility of contact adhesives will be increased.
