
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1304 - BAN OF CONSUMER PATCHING COMPOUNDS CONTAINING RESPIRABLE FREE-FORM ASBESTOS
##### ยง 1304.1 Scope and application.

(a) In this part 1304 the Consumer Product Safety Commission declares that consumer patching compounds containing intentionally-added respirable freeform asbestos in such a manner that the asbestos fibers can become airborne under reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, are banned hazardous products under sections 8 and 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) (15 U.S.C. 2057 and 2058). This ban applies to patching compounds which are (1) used to cover, seal or mask cracks, joints, holes and similar openings in the trim, walls, ceiling, etc. of building interiors, which after drying are sanded to a smooth finish and (2) are produced and distributed for sale to or for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of a consumer in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation or otherwise.

(b) The Commission has found that (1) these patching compounds are being or will be distributed in commerce; (2) that they present an unreasonable risk of injury; and (3) that no feasible consumer product safety standard under the CPSA would adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk of injury associated with these products. This rule applies to the banned hazardous products defined in ยง 1304.3 and described further in ยง 1304.4.

(c) Only consumer products are subject to this regulation. Patching compounds which are consumer products include those which a consumer can purchase. Merely labeling a patching compound for industrial use would not exclude such articles from the ban. If the sale or use of the product by consumers is facilitated, it is subject to the ban. Patching compounds which are labeled as, marketed, and sold solely for industrial use in non-consumer environments are not subject to the ban. In addition to those products which can be sold directly to consumers, the ban applies to patching compounds containing respirable free-form asbestos which are used in residences, schools, hospitals, public buildings or other areas where consumers have customary access.
