
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1401 - SELF PRESSURIZED CONSUMER PRODUCTS CONTAINING CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS: REQUIREMENTS TO PROVIDE THE COMMISSION WITH PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA; REQUIREMENTS TO NOTIFY CONSUMERS AT POINT OF PURCHASE OF PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA
##### ยง 1401.2 Purpose.

Chlorofluorocarbons are used as propellants in self-pressurized containers of a variety of products subject to the Commission's jurisdiction. Scientific research has indicated that chlorofluorocarbons may pose a risk of depletion of ozone in the stratosphere. The stratospheric ozone shield is of great importance in protecting life on earth from shortwave ultra-violet rays of the sun. Ozone depletion allows more of these rays to reach the earth, and the consequences include a possibility of a significant increase in human skin cancer and other effects of unknown magnitude on man, animals, and plants. Chlorofluorocarbon release may also cause climatic change, both by reducing stratospheric ozone and by increasing infrared absorption in the atmosphere. The Commission believes that the requirements of this part 1401 will enable consumers to make a conscious choice of whether to use products that contain chlorofluorocarbon propellants. The Commission also believes that these requirements are necessary in order to carry out the purposes of the Consumer Product Safety Act of (a) helping to protect the public against unreasonable risks of injury associated with consumer products and (b) assisting consumers in evaluating the comparative safety of consumer products.
