
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1402 - CB BASE STATION ANTENNAS, TV ANTENNAS, AND SUPPORTING STRUCTURES
##### ยง 1402.1 Scope.

(a) This part 1402 requires manufacturers (including importers) of Citizens Band (CB) base station antennas, outdoor television (TV) antennas, and their supporting structures to provide notification of ways to avoid the hazard of electrocution which exists when these products are allowed to come near powerlines while the antennas are being put up or taken down. The notification must be provided to (1) prospective purchasers of such products at the time of original purchase and (2) the first purchaser of such products for purposes other than resale. The notification consists of instructions to accompany the products, warning labels on the products, and warning statements on the packaging or parts container. Samples of the instructions, labels, and warning statements must also be provided to the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

(b) This part 1402 applies to any of the following that are "consumer products" as defined in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) and that are manufactured or imported, or packaged or sold by the manufacturer or importer, after September 26, 1978.

(1) Antennas designed or intended to be used as outdoor CB base station antennas (referred to in this rule as "CB base station antennas").

(2) Antennas designed or intended to be used as outdoor TV receiving antennas (referred to in this rule as "TV antennas").

(3) Antenna supporting structures, which are elements over 5 feet in length that are intended to support these types of antennas at a higher elevation. These structures include towers, tripods, and masts. Devices which merely secure the antenna in place are not included.
