
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1402 - CB BASE STATION ANTENNAS, TV ANTENNAS, AND SUPPORTING STRUCTURES
##### ยง 1402.4 Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling and instructions.
###### 1,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(E)() The colors in figure 1 shall conform to ANSI Standard Z53.1-1971, "Safety Color Code for Marking Physical Hazards," published in 1971 by the American National Standards Institute, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. This standard is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register. These materials are incorporated as they exist in the edition which has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register and which has been filed with the Office of the Federal Register. Alternatively, the colors "red" and "yellow" in figure 1 may conform to Color Tolerance Charts, published by the Department of Transportation. Copies of the Color Tolerance Charts are available from the Office of Hazardous Materials, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590. These materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
