
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1402 - CB BASE STATION ANTENNAS, TV ANTENNAS, AND SUPPORTING STRUCTURES
##### ยง 1402.4 Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling and instructions.
###### Data provided to the Commission.

(b)(1) Manufacturers of CB base station antennas, TV antennas, and antenna supporting structures shall provide to the Commission samples of all the labels, warning statements, and instructions which will be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. These samples shall be provided to the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Md. 20207, by October 27, 1978, or, in the event of a subsequent change in the warning statements or instructions or if a new product is introduced, within 30 days after the change or introduction.

(2) Manufacturers need not submit a separate sample for each model of antenna or supporting structure where different models use the same label and warning statement and where the portion of the instructions required by this part is the same for the different models (even though the remainder of the instructions may be different for each model). Changes in instructions which do not affect the portions of the instructions required by this part do not require the submission of additional samples.

(3) The reporting requirement contained in this section has been approved by the U.S. General Accounting Office under No. B-180232 (R0555).
