
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1404 - CELLULOSE INSULATION
##### ยง 1404.4 Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling - Notice to purchasers.

(a) Manufacturers of cellulose insulation shall give notification of performance and technical data related to performance and safety (1) to prospective purchasers at the time of original purchase and (2) to the first purchaser of such products for purposes other than resale in the following manner. Manufacturers of cellulose insulation shall label all containers of cellulose insulation with the following statement, using capital letters as indicated:

Manufacturers of cellulose insulation may substitute the phrase "TO HELP AVOID FIRE" for the phrase "POTENTIAL FIRE HAZARD" in the label described above. Manufacturers may also delete the word "cellulose from the first sentence of the label and may delete the word "this" from the third sentence of the label. The remainder of the label statement shall appear exactly as described above.

(b) The labeling statement required by ยง 1404.4(a) shall appear prominently and conspicuously on the container. The word "CAUTION" shall appear in capital letters at least one-fourth inch in height. The words "POTENTIAL FIRE HAZARD" and "REQUEST TO INSTALLER" shall appear in capital letters at least three-sixteenths inch in height. The remainder of the statement shall appear in capital letters at least three-sixteenths inch in height, with lower case letters in corresponding proportion but at least one-eighth inch in height. The labeling statement shall be enclosed within a rectangle formed with lines at least one-sixteenth inch in width. The labeling statement shall be printed with legible type in a color which contrasts with the background on which the statement is printed.

(c) To meet this requirement, manufacturers may use any type of label, including one which is pressure sensitive or glued-on, provided the label is made in such a manner that it will remain attached to the container for the expected time interval between the manufacture of the product and its installation.
