
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1406 - COAL AND WOOD BURNING APPLIANCES - NOTIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA
##### ยง 1406.4 Requirements to provide performance and technical notice to prospective purchasers and purchasers.
###### Written notice on appliance.

(a)(1) The appliance shall bear a legible notice containing the following performance and technical data.

(i) Appropriate minimum clearances from unprotected combustibles to avoid the occurrence of fire.The clearances shall include:

(A) Distance from the back and sides of the appliance, and the chimney connector, to walls, stated in diagrammatic form.

(B) Distance to be maintained between the chimney connector and ceilings, in either diagrammatic or written form.

(ii) Type and dimensions of floor protection, if necessary to protect combustible floors.

(iii) Proper type(s) of chimney and chimney connector to be used with the appliance. This information should include the proper designations so that the chimney and chimney connector are of suitable design and construction to withstand the temperature of the flue gases and other probable environmental stresses and so that the inside dimensions are suitable to adequately vent the products of combustion. See Figs. 1 and 2 for examples of an acceptable designation for a chimney and chimney connector.

(iv) Identification of parts or precautions required for passing a chimney through combustible walls or ceilings or for passing a chimney connector through combustible walls. The following statement is an example of one that complies with this requirement:

(v) A statement not to overfire the appliance, and a description of at least 1 condition which signals overfiring.

(vi) A statement of how often the chimney and chimney connector should be inspected and that it should be cleaned when necessary.

(vii) Information explaining that the appliance should be installed and used only in accordance with the manufacturer's directions and local building codes.

(viii) A direction to contact local building or fire officials about restrictions and installation inspection requirements.

(ix) A statement that furnishings and combustible materials should be kept a considerable distance from the appliance or a statement to keep furnishings and other combustibles far away.

(x) The types of fuel suitable for use in the appliance.

(xi) The name and address of the manufacturer, importer or private labeler to which the owner can write for a copy of the manufacturer's directions or for additional information, and a sufficient identification of the appliance model so that the appropriate information can be supplied.

(2) No specific wording is required on the written notice, but the information shall be printed in legible English in clear and readily understandable language. Examples of acceptable labels are given in Figs. 1 and 2, appendix I.

(3) The written notice shall be placed in a location that is conspicuous before the appliance is installed. In addition, the written information required by paragraphs (a)(1)(v), (a)(1)(vi), (a)(1)(ix), and (a)(1)(x) of this section shall be readily visible during normal use of the appliance. A label on the back of the stove would not be considered "readily visible" during normal use if the stove is suitable for installation with its back within a few feet of the wall. Locations within compartments or behind doors or panels may be readily visible during normal use if the location is readily visible when the door or panel is opened or removed and the door or panel must be opened or removed, or the compartments used, as part of the normal operating procedures for the appliance. An example of a notice format where the information required to be readily visible during normal use is separated from the remainder of the notice is given in Fig. 1, appendix I. The Commission recommends the use of this 2 label format in order to provide more consumer awareness of the operation and maintenance information after the appliance is installed, since this information would be on a simpler label that would not have installation information competing for the consumer's attention.

(4) The written notice shall be provided so that it will remain legible for the maximum expected useful life of the appliance in normal operation.
