
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1406 - COAL AND WOOD BURNING APPLIANCES - NOTIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE AND TECHNICAL DATA
##### ยง 1406.4 Requirements to provide performance and technical notice to prospective purchasers and purchasers.
###### Directions.

(b)All appliances covered by this rule shall be accompanied by directions that include the following technical and performance information:

(1) The following notice shall be placed on the first page of the document(s) containing the directions and at the beginning of the directions:

(2) Step by step installation directions shall be provided, including all necessary information regarding parts and materials. This information shall include an explanation of the consequences which could result from failure to install the appliance properly. These directions shall include a direction to refer to the chimney and chimney connector manufacturers' instructions and local building codes for installation through combustible walls or ceilings.

(3) These directions shall also include a clearly identified section containing complete use directions, including what types of fuel(s) can be used and how to fire the unit to avoid fire hazards, and a clearly identified section containing complete maintenance directions, including how and when to clean the chimney and chimney connector. A statement that flammable liquids should not be used with the appliance shall also be included where applicable. These sections shall contain a description of the consequences that could result from failure to use or maintain the appliance properly.

(4) The directions required by paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section shall include all the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section and shall be in legible English in readily understandable language. A recommended outline for the directions is given in appendix II.
