
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter B - Consumer Product Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1420 - REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
##### ยง 1420.3 Requirements for four-wheel ATVs.
###### www.svia.org.,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(a) Each ATV shall comply with all applicable provisions of the American National Standard for Four-Wheel All-Terrain Vehicles (ANSI/SVIA 1-2017), ANSI-approved on June 8, 2017. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from Specialty Vehicle Institute of America, 2 Jenner, Suite 150, Irvine, CA 92618-3806; telephone: 949-727-3727 ext. 3023;You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD. 20814, telephone: 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) Each ATV must be subject to an ATV action plan filed with the Commission before August 14, 2008 or subsequently filed with and approved by the Commission, and shall bear a label certifying such compliance and identifying the manufacturer, importer or private labeler and the ATV action plan to which it is subject.

(c) The ATV manufacturer or distributor shall be in compliance with all provisions of the applicable ATV action plan.
