
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Imports
###### ยง 1500.272 Costs chargeable in connection with relabeling and reconditioning inadmissible imports.

The cost of supervising the relabeling or other action necessary in connection with an import of a hazardous substance that fails to comply with the act shall be paid by the owner or consignee who files an application requesting such action and executes a bond, pursuant to section 14(b) of the act. The cost of such supervision shall include, but not be restricted to, the following:

(a) Travel expenses of the supervising officer.

(b) Per diem in lieu of subsistence of the supervising officer when away from his home station as provided by law.

(c) Services of the supervising officer, to be calculated at the rate of a GS 11, step 1 employee, except that such services performed by a customs officer and subject to the provisions of the Act of February 13, 1911, as amended (sec. 5, 36 Stat. 901 as amended; 19 U.S.C. 267), shall be calculated as provided in that Act.

(d) Services of the analyst, to be calculated at the rate of a GS 12, step 1 employee (which shall include the use of the chemical laboratories and equipment of the Consumer Product Safety Commission).

(e) The minimum charge for services of supervising officers and of analysts shall be not less than the charge for 1 hour, and time after the first hour shall be computed in multiples of 1 hour, disregarding fractional parts less than one-half hour.
