
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.3 Definitions.
###### in silico

(C) Additional consideration may be given to Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships (QSARs),data, specific human sensitization threshold values, other data on potency and sensitizer bioavailability, if data are available and the methods validated. Bioavailability is the dose of the allergen available to interact with a tissue. Bioavailability is a reflection of how well the skin or another organ can absorb the allergen and the actual penetrating ability of the allergen, including factors such as size and composition of the chemical.

(D) Criteria for a "well-conducted" study would include: validated outcomes, relevant dosing, route of administration, and use of appropriate controls. Studies should be carried out according to national and/or international test guidelines and according to good laboratory practice (GLP), compliance with good clinical practice (GCP), and good epidemiological practice (GEP).

(E) Before the Commission designates any substance as a "strong" sensitizer, frequency of occurrence and range of severity of reactions in exposed subpopulations having average or high susceptibility will be considered. The minimal severity of a reaction for the purpose of designating a material as a "strong sensitizer" is a clinically important reaction. A clinically important reaction would be considered one with a significant impact on quality of life. Consideration should be given to the location of the hypersensitivity response, such as the face, hands, and feet as well as persistence of clinical manifestations. For example, strong sensitizers may produce substantial illness, including any or all of the following: substantial physiological effects, such as discomfort and distress, substantial hardship, functional or structural impairment, persistent morbidity, or in rare cases, mortality.
