
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.14 Products requiring special labeling under section 3(b) of the act.
###### Charcoal.

(6)Charcoal briquettes and other forms of charcoal in containers for retail sale and intended for cooking or heating.

(i)(A) Because inhalation of the carbon monoxide produced by burning charcoal indoors or in confined areas may cause serious injury or death, containers of such products packaged before November 3, 1997, shall bear the following borderlined statement:

(B) For bags of charcoal packaged before November 3, 1997, the statement specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section shall appear within a heavy borderline in a color sharply contrasting to that of the background, on both front and back panels in the upper 25 percent of the panels of the bag at least 2 inches below the seam, and at least 1 inch above any reading material or design elements in type size as follows: The signal word "WARNING" shall appear in capital letters at least three-eighths inch in height; the remaining text of the warning statement shall be printed in letters at least three-sixteenths inch in height.

(ii)(A) Because inhalation of the carbon monoxide produced by burning charcoal indoors or in confined areas can cause serious injury or death, containers of such products packaged on or after November 3, 1997, shall bear the following borderlined label.

(B) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(C) of this section, the following requirements apply to bags of charcoal subject to paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. The label specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section shall appear within a heavy borderline, in a color sharply contrasting to that of the background, on both the front and back panels in the upper 25 percent of the panels of the bag, and with the outer edge of the borderline at least 2.54 cm (1 inch) below the seam and at least 2.54 cm (1 inch) above any other reading material or design elements. The signal word "WARNING" shall be in bold capital letters in at least 7.14 mm (inch) type. The remaining text of the warning statement shall be in at least 4.763 mm (inch) type. The phrase "CARBON MONOXIDE HAZARD" shall be in bold. This phrase and the word "NEVER" shall be in all capital letters. The lettering shall have a strokewidth-to-height ratio of 1:6 to 1:8. The label shall be at least 50.8 mm (2 inches) high and 147.5 mm (5inches) wide. The label's lettering, spacing between the bottom of the letters of one line and the top of the letter of the next line, and pictogram shall have the size relation to each other and to the remainder of the label shown in paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section.

(C) For bags of charcoal subject to paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section that are 6 inches or less wide, the minimum label height may be reduced to 38 mm (1.5 inches) and the minimum width may be reduced to 139.7 mm (5.5 inches). The signal word "WARNING" shall be in capital letters in at least 6.32 mm (0.249 inch) type. The remaining text of the warning shall be in at least 4.23 mm (0.166 inch) type. All other requirements of paragraphs 6(b)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section shall apply to these bags.
