
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.14 Products requiring special labeling under section 3(b) of the act.
###### art material or art material product

(A) The termshall mean any substance marketed or represented by the producer or repackager as suitable for use in any phase of the creation of any work of visual or graphic art of any medium. The term does not include economic poisons subject to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act or drugs, devices, or cosmetics subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act.

(B) The standard referred to in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section applies to art materials intended for users of any age.

(C) Each producer or repackager of art materials shall describe in writing the criteria used to determine whether an art material has the potential for producing chronic adverse health effects. Each producer or repackager shall submit, to the Commission's Division of Regulatory Management, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207, the written description of the criteria described above and a list of art materials that require hazard warning labels under this section. Upon request of the Commission, a producer or repackager shall submit to the Commission product formulations.

(D) All art materials that require chronic hazard labeling pursuant to this section must include on the label the name and United States address of the producer or repackager of the art materials, an appropriate United States telephone number that can be contacted for more information on the hazards requiring warning labels under this section, and a statement that such art materials are inappropriate for use by children.

(E) If an art material producer or repackager becomes newly aware of any significant information regarding the hazards of an art material or ways to protect against the hazard, this new information must be incorporated into the labels of such art materials that are manufactured after 12 months from the date of discovery. If a producer or repackager reformulates an art material, the new formulation must be evaluated and labeled in accordance with the standard set forth ยง 1500.14(b)(8)(i).

(F) In determining whether an art material has the potential for producing chronic adverse health effects, including carcinogenicity and potential carcinogenicity, the toxicologist to whom the substance is referred under the standard described above shall take into account opinions of various regulatory agencies and scientific bodies, including the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).

(iii) Pursuant to the LHAMA, the Commission has issued guidelines which, where possible, specify criteria for determining when any customary or reasonably foreseeable use of an art material can result in a chronic hazard. These guidelines include criteria for determining when art materials may produce chronic adverse effects in children and adults, criteria for determining which substances contained in art materials have the potential for producing chronic adverse effects and what those effects are, criteria for determining the bioavailability of chronically hazardous substances contained in art materials when the products are used in a customary or reasonably foreseeable manner, and criteria for determining acceptable daily intake levels for chronically hazardous substances contained in art materials. Because these guidelines apply to hazardous substances in general as well as to hazardous substances in art materials, the guidelines are set forth in ยง 1500.135 and a definition of "chronic toxicity" is provided in ยง 1500.3(c)(2)(ii) as part of supplementation of the term "toxic" in section 2(q) of the FHSA.
