
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.14 Products requiring special labeling under section 3(b) of the act.
###### 4

() The following materials whether used as a surface or applied to one, unless, as a result of processing or handling, the consumer is likely to be exposed to a chemical in or on the surface material in a manner which makes that chemical susceptible to being ingested, absorbed, or inhaled: paper, cloth, plastics, films, yarn, threads, rubber, sand, wood, stone, tile, masonry, and metal.

(B) For purposes of LHAMA enforcement policy, the Commission will enforce against materials including, but not limited to, paints, crayons, colored pencils, glues, adhesives, and putties, if such materials are sold as part of an art, craft, model, or hobby kit. The Commission will enforce the LHAMA requirements against paints or other materials sold separately which are intended to decorate art, craft, model, and hobby items. Adhesives, glues, and putties intended for general repair or construction uses are not subject to LHAMA. However, the Commission will enforce the LHAMA requirements against adhesives, glues, and putties sold separately (not part of a kit) if they are intended for art and craft and model construction uses. This paragraph (b)(8)(iv)(B) applies to products introduced into interstate commerce on or after August 14, 1995.

(C) Commission regulations at ยง 1500.14(b)(8)(i)(C)(7) require that a statement of conformance appear with art materials that have been reviewed in accordance with the Commission standard. The Commission interprets this provision to require a conformance statement regardless of the presence of any chronic hazard warnings.

(D) Nothing in this enforcement statement should be deemed to alter any of the requirements of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act ("FHSA"), such as, but not limited to, the requirement that any hazardous substance intended or packaged in a form suitable for household use must be labeled in accordance with section 2(p) of the FHSA.
