
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### § 1500.18 Banned toys and other banned articles intended for use by children.
###### Toys and other articles presenting mechanical hazards.

(a)Under the authority of sections 2(f)(1)(D) and 24 of the act and pursuant to the provisions of section 3(e) of the act, the Commission has determined that the following types of toys or other articles intended for use by children present a mechanical hazard within the meaning of section 2(s) of the act because in normal use, or when subjected to reasonably foreseeable damage or abuse, the design or manufacture presents an unreasonable risk of personal injury or illness:

(1) Any toy rattle containing, either internally or externally, rigid wires, sharp protrusions, or loose small objects that have the potential for causing lacerations, puncture wound injury, aspiration, ingestion, or other injury. (But see § 1500.86(a)(1)).

(2) Any toy having noisemaking components or attachments capable of being dislodged by the operating features of the toy or capable of being deliberately removed by a child, which toy has the potential for causing laceration, puncture wound injury, aspiration, ingestion, or other injury.

(3) Any doll, stuffed animal, or other similar toy having internal or external components that have the potential for causing laceration, puncture wound injury, or other similar injury. (But see § 1500.86(a)(2)); (See also §§ 1500.48 and 1500.49).

(4) Lawn darts and other similar sharp-pointed toys usually intended for outdoor use and having the potential for causing puncture wound injury.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Any article known as a "baby-bouncer" or "walker-jumper" and any other similar article (referred to in this paragraph as "article(s)"), except an infant walker subject to part 1216, which is intended to support very young children while sitting, bouncing, jumping, and/or reclining, and which because of its design has any exposed parts capable of causing amputation, crushing, lacerations, fractures, hematomas, bruises, or other injuries to fingers, toes, or other parts of the anatomy of young children. Included among, but not limited to, the design features of such articles which classify the articles as banned hazardous substances are:

(i) The areas about the point on each side of the article where the frame components are joined together to form an "X" shape capable of producing a scissoring, shearing, or pinching effect.

(ii) Other areas where two or more parts are joined in such a manner as to permit a rotational movement capable of exerting a scissoring, shearing, or pinching effect.

(iii) Exposed coil springs which may expand sufficiently to allow an infant's finger, toe, or any other part of the anatomy to be inserted, in whole or in part, and injured by being caught between the coils of the spring or between the spring and another part of the article.

(iv) Holes in plates or tubes which provide the possibility of insertion, in whole or in part, of a finger, toe, or any part of the anatomy that could then be injured by the movement of another part of the article.

(v) Design and construction that permits accidental collapse while in use. (But see § 1500.86(a)(4)).

(7) Toys usually known as clacker balls and consisting of two balls of plastic or another material connected by a length of line or cord or similar connector (referred to as "cord" in § 1500.86(a)(5)), intended to be operated in a rhythmic manner by an upward and downward motion of the hand so that the two balls will meet forcefully at the top and bottom of two semicircles thus causing a "clacking" sound, which toys present a mechanical hazard because their design or manufacture presents an unreasonable risk of personal injury from fracture, fragmentations, or disassembly of the toy and from propulsion of the toy or its part(s). (But see § 1500.86(a)(5).) This does not include products that are constructed so that the connecting members consist of plastic rods integrally molded to the balls and are mounted on a pivot so that movement of the balls is essentially limited to a single plane.

(8) Any pacifier that does not meet the requirements of 16 CFR part 1511 and that is introduced into interstate commerce after February 26, 1978.

(9) Any toy or other article intended for use by children under 3 years of age which presents a choking, aspiration, or ingestion hazard because of small parts as determined by part 1501 of this chapter and which is introduced into interstate commerce after January 1, 1980. For purposes of this regulation, introduction into interstate commerce is defined as follows: A toy or children's article manufactured outside the United States is introduced into interstate commerce when it is first brought within a U.S. port of entry. A toy or children's article manufactured in the United States is introduced into interstate commerce (1) at the time of its first interstate sale, or (2) at the time of its first intrastate sale if one or more of its components and/or raw materials were received interstate, whichever occurs earlier. Part 1501 defines the term "toy or other article intended for use by children under 3," as used in this regulation, and exempts certain products from banning under this regulation.

(10)-(11) [Reserved]

(12) Any bicycle as defined in § 1512.2(a) of this chapter (except a bicycle that is a "track bicycle" or a "one-of-a-kind bicycle" as defined in § 1512.2 (d) and (e) of this chapter) that is introduced into interstate commerce on or after May 11, 1976, and that does not comply with the requirements of part 1512 of this chapter, except for §§ 1512.5(c)(3), 1512.9(a), 1512.18(e) and 1512.18(f) which become effective November 13, 1976.

(15) Any rattle (as defined in § 1510.2 of this chapter) that is introduced into interstate commerce on or after August 21, 1978, and that does not comply with the requirements of part 1510 of this chapter. For purposes of the regulation, introduction into interstate commerce is defined as follows: A rattle manufactured outside the United States is introduced into interstate commerce when it is first brought within a U.S. port of entry. A rattle manufactured in the United States is introduced into interstate commerce (a) at the time of its first interstate sale, or (b) at the time of its first intrastate sale if one or more of its components and/or raw materials were received interstate.

(16) (i) Any article known as an "infant cushion" or "infant pillow," and any other similar article, which has all of the following characteristics (But see § 1500.86(a)(9)):
