
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.18 Banned toys and other banned articles intended for use by children.
###### Least burdensome requirement.

(D)The Commission considered labeling and a design or performance standard as alternatives to the ban. The Commission does not believe that any form of labeling would have a significant effect in preventing the hazard associated with infant cushions. The Commission also concluded that no feasible standard exists that would address the hazard. Thus, the Commission determined that a ban of infant cushions is the least burdensome alternative that would prevent or adequately reduce the risk of injury.

(17) Any ball intended for children under three years of age that, under the influence of its own weight, passes, in any orientation, entirely through a circular hole with a diameter of 1.75 inches (44.4 mm.) in a rigid templateinches (6 mm.) thick. In testing to evaluate compliance with this paragraph, the diameter of opening in the Commission's test template shall be no greater than 1.75 inches (44.4 mm.).

(i) For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "ball" includes any spherical, ovoid, or ellipsoidal object that is designed or intended to be thrown, hit, kicked, rolled, dropped, or bounced. The term "ball" includes any spherical, ovoid, or ellipsoidal object that is attached to a toy or article by means of a string, elastic cord, or similar tether. The term "ball" also includes any multi-sided object formed by connecting planes into a generally spherical, ovoid, or ellipsoidal shape that is designated or intended to be used as a ball, and any novelty item of a generally spherical, ovoid, or ellipsoidal shape that is designated or intended to be used as a ball.

(ii) The term "ball" does not include dice, or balls permanently enclosed inside pinball machines, mazes, or similar outer containers. A ball is permanently enclosed if, when tested in accordance with 16 CFR 1500.52, the ball is not removed from the outer container.

(iii) In determining whether such a ball is intended for use by children under three years of age, the criteria specified in 16 CFR 1501.2(b) and the enforcement procedure established by 16 CFR 1501.5 shall apply.

(18)(i) Any bunk bed (as defined in ยง 1513.2(c) of this chapter) that does not comply with the requirements of part 1513 of this chapter.
