
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.18 Banned toys and other banned articles intended for use by children.
###### Findings.

(ii)In order to issue a rule under Section 3(e) of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (FHSA), 15 U.S.C. 1262(e), classifying a toy or other article intended for use by children as a hazardous substance on the basis that it presents a mechanical hazard (as defined in Section 2(s) of the FHSA), the FHSA requires the Commission to make the following findings and to include these findings in the regulation: Bunk beds present a mechanical hazard; Where a voluntary standard has been adopted and implemented by the affected industry, that compliance with such voluntary standard is not likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of injury, or it is unlikely that there will be substantial compliance with such voluntary standard; The benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs; and The rule imposes the least burdensome requirement that prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated. These findings are made in the appendix to Part 1513.

(19)(i) Dive sticks, and other similar articles, that are used in swimming pools or other water environments for such activities as underwater retrieval games or swimming instruction, and which, when placed in the water, submerge and rest at the bottom of the pool. This includes products that are pre-weighted to sink to the bottom and products that are designed to allow the user to adjust the weight. Dive sticks and similar articles that come to rest underwater at an angle greater than 45 degrees from vertical when measured under the test at ยง 1500.86(a)(7) and dive sticks and similar articles that maintain a compressive force of less than 5-lbf under the test at ยง 1500.86(a)(8) are exempt from this banning rule. Articles that have a continuous circular shape, such as dive rings and dive disks are also exempt.
