
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### § 1500.19 Misbranded toys and other articles intended for use by children.
###### Prominence and conspicuousness of labeling statements.

(d)The requirements of 16 CFR 1500.121 relating to the prominence and conspicuousness of precautionary labeling statements for hazardous substances shall apply to any labeling statement required under § 1500.19(b) and (f), with the following clarifications and modifications.

(1) All labeling statements required by § 1500.19(b) and (f) shall be in the English language. The statements required by paragraph (b) need not appear in the format and layout depicted in paragraph (b). The statements required by 16 CFR 1500.19(b) and (f) shall be blocked together within a square or rectangular area, with or without a border. This means that the statements must appear on at least two lines. The statements shall be separated from all other graphic material by a space no smaller than the minimum allowable height of the type size for other cautionary material (e.g., the phrase "Not for children under 3 yrs."). If not separated by that distance, the labeling statements must be surrounded by a border line. Label design, the use of vignettes, or the proximity of other labeling or lettering shall not obscure or render inconspicuous any labeling statement required under § 1500.19(b) and (f). This means that such statements shall appear on a solid background, which need not differ from the background color or any other color on the package label.

(2) The words "WARNING" or "SAFETY WARNING" required by section 24 of the FHSA shall be regarded as signal words.

(3) The statement "CHOKING HAZARD" shall be regarded as a statement of the principal hazard associated with the products subject to this section.

(4) All other remaining statements required by this section shall be regarded as "other cautionary material" as that term is defined in 16 CFR 1500.121(a)(2)(viii).

(5) The principal display panel for a bin, container for retail display, or vending machine shall be the side or surface designed to be most prominently displayed, shown, or presented to, or examined by, prospective purchasers. In the case of bins or containers for retail display, the cautionary material may be placed on a display card of a reasonable size in relationship to the surface area of the bin or container. The area of the display card shall constitute the area of the principal display panel. In the case of vending machines that contain a display card, the cautionary label may be placed either on the display card, on the coinage indicator decal, or on the glass or clear plastic of the machine. If there is no display card inside a vending machine, the size of the principal display panel will be calculated in accordance with 16 CFR 1500.121(c) based on the size of the front of the container from which items are dispensed, exclusive of the area of metal attachments, coin inserts, bases, etc. Any other side or surface of such a bin, container for retail sale, or vending machine that bears information, such as price or product description, for examination by purchasers shall be deemed to be a principal display panel, excluding any side or surface with information that only identifies the company that owns or operates a vending machine.

(6) All of the labeling statements required by this section, including those classified as "other cautionary material," must appear on the principal display panel of the product, except as provided for by § 1500.19(f). Any signal word shall appear on the same line and in close proximity to the triangle required by section 24 of the act. Multiple messages should be provided with sufficient space between them, when feasible, to prevent them from visually blending together.

(7) All labeling statements required by this section shall comply with the following type size requirements. 16 CFR 1500.121(c)(1) explains how to compute the area of the principal display panel and letter height.

(8) Labeling required by this section that appears on a bin, container for retail display, or vending machine shall be in reasonable proximity to any pricing or product information contained on the principal display panel, or, if such information is not present, in close proximity to the article that is subject to the labeling requirements.

(9) Descriptive material that accompanies a product subject to the labeling requirements, including accompanying material subject to the alternative allowed by § 1500.19(f), shall comply with the requirements of 16 CFR 1500.121(c)(6) relating to literature containing instructions for use which accompanies a hazardous substance. If the descriptive material contains instructions for use, the required precautionary labeling shall be in reasonable proximity to such instructions or directions and shall be placed together within the same general area (see 16 CFR 1500.121(c)(6)).

(10) In the case of any alternative labeling statement permitted under § 1500.19(e), the requirements of 16 CFR 1500.121(b)(3) and 1500.121(c)(2)(iii) shall apply to statements or indicators on the principal display panel directing attention to the complete cautionary labeling that appears on another display panel.

(11) Any triangle required by this section shall be an equilateral triangle. The height of such a triangle shall be equal to or exceed the height of the letters of the signal word "WARNING". The height of the exclamation point inside the triangle shall be at least half the height of the triangle, and the exclamation point shall be centered vertically in the triangle. The triangle shall be separated from the signal word by a distance at least equal to the space occupied by the first letter of the signal word. In all other respects, triangles with exclamation points shall conform generally to the provisions of 16 CFR 1500.121 relating to signal words.
