
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.20 Labeling requirement for advertising toys and games.
###### Abbreviated warnings for catalogues and other printed materials.

(e)Abbreviated versions of the required cautionary statements are permitted in each individual product advertisement, provided that the corresponding full cautionary statements appear in the catalogue and a statement referring to the precise location of the full cautionary statements-such as the page number on which the cautionary statements can be found-is located at the bottom of each catalogue page that contains one or more abbreviated cautionary statements. If abbreviated cautionary statements are used:

(1) The full cautionary statements associated with the abbreviated cautionary statements shall appear:

(i) Near the beginning of the catalogue, before any catalogue pages that contain advertisements of products available for purchase, or

(ii) Adjacent to the ordering information or order form in the catalogue.

(2) The full cautionary statements shall be in conspicuous and legible type in contrast by typography, layout or color.

(3) The full cautionary statements shall be clearly numbered according to the following scheme:

(4) The abbreviated cautionary statements shall consist of items 1500.20(e)(3)(i) through 1500.20(e)(3)(iv):

(i) A safety alert symbol substantially similar to that shown in figure 7.

(ii) The phrase, "CHOKING HAZARD," written in capital letters.

(iii) Numbers, separated by commas and enclosed within a single set of parentheses, that identify the applicable cautionary statements for the product being advertised, followed by a period. These numbers shall match the numbers used to identify each full cautionary statement, as specified in 1500.20(e)(2).

(iv) A single prohibited age range written as either "Not for under 3 yrs" or "Not for under 8 yrs," based on the most restrictive age range for all required cautionary statements for that product. Thus, if an advertised product requires the cautionary statement specified in 16 CFR 1500.19(b)(2), the prohibited age range in the abbreviated cautionary statement shall be "Not for under 8 yrs."

(v) For example, see Figure 8 for the abbreviated cautionary statement for an advertisement of a product that requires the cautionary statements specified in 16 CFR 1500.19(b)(1) and 16 CFR 1500.19(b)(2).
