
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.40 Method of testing toxic substances.
###### Acute dermal toxicity,single exposure

(a)(). In the acute exposures, the agent is held in contact with the skin by means of a sleeve for periods varying up to 24 hours. The sleeve, made of rubber dam or other impervious material, is so constructed that the ends are reinforced with additional strips and should fit snugly around the trunk of the animal. The ends of the sleeve are tucked, permitting the central portion to "balloon" and furnish a reservoir for the dose. The reservoir must have sufficient capacity to contain the dose without pressure. In the following table are given the dimensions of sleeves and the approximate body surface exposed to the test substance. The sleeves may vary in size to accommodate smaller or larger subjects. In the testing of unctuous materials that adhere readily to the skin, mesh wire screen may be employed instead of the sleeve. The screen is padded and raised approximately 2 centimeters from the exposed skin. In the case of dry powder preparations, the skin and substance are moistened with physiological saline prior to exposure. The sleeve or screen is then slipped over the gauze that holds the dose applied to the skin. In the case of finely divided powders, the measured dose is evenly distributed on cotton gauze which is then secured to the area of exposure.
