
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.43a Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials.
###### Scope.

(a)(1) This method describes the test procedure which the Commission will use for the determination of the flashpoint of volatile flammable materials, using a Setaflashlow-range closed tester, or an apparatus producing equivalent results. The method described in this section is essentially a Setaflash equilibrium procedure which closely parallels the test method designated ASTM D 3828-81, "Standard Test Methods for Flash Point by Setaflash Closed Tester," published by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. Manufacturers and labelers of products subject to labeling and other requirements under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act may use other apparatus and/or test methods which produce equivalent results.

(2) At the option of the user, the procedures described in this section may be used to determine the actual flashpoint temperature of a sample or to determine whether a product will or will not flash at a specified temperature (flash/no flash).

(3) If the substance to be tested has a viscosity greater than 150 Stokes at 77 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C), see paragraph (n) of this section for modifications to the testing procedure.

(4) If the Commission has reason to believe on the basis of reliable experience or other relevant information or data that the flammability hazard of a substance is greater or less than its flammability classification based on flashpoint temperature determined in accordance with this ยง 1500.43a and that the substance should be reclassified, the Commission will initiate a rulemaking proceeding for reclassification of the substance. Product manufacturers and labelers may use reliable experience or other relevant information or data in addition to the flashpoint temperature of a substance as a basis for compliance with any applicable requirements of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act in the absence of a rule issued by the Commission to reclassify the substance.
