
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.43a Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials.
###### Summary of test methods.

(b)(1) Method A-Flash/No Flash Test. A specified volume of sample is introduced by a syringe into the cup of the apparatus that is set and maintained at the specified temperature. After a specific time a test flame is applied and an observation made as to whether or not a flash occurred. Test procedures are set forth in detail in ยง 1500.43a(i).

(2) Method B-Finite (or Actual) Flashpoint. (i) A specified voume of sample is introduced into the cup of the apparatus that is maintained at the expected flashpoint. After a specified time a test flame is applied and the observation made whether or not a flash occurred.

(ii) The specimen is removed from the cup, the cup cleaned, and the cup temperature adjusted 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F), lower or higher depending on whether or not a flash occurred previously. A fresh specimen is introduced and tested. This procedure is repeated until the flashpoint is established within 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F).

(iii) The procedure is then repeated at 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F) intervals until the flashpoint is determined to the nearest 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F).

(iv) If improved accuracy is desired the procedure is repeated at 0.5 &#xB0;C (1 &#xB0;F). Test procedures are set forth in detail at ยง 1500.43a(j).

(3) The test procedures will be modified, where necessary, to ensure that the results obtained reflect the hazard of the substance under reasonably foreseeable conditions of use. Thus, for example, the material, if a mixture, will normally be tested as it comes from the container, and/or after a period of evaporation. The period of evaporation for a material which is a mixture will normally be the time required for the mixture to evaporate in an open beaker under ambient conditions to 90 percent of its original volume, or a period of four hours, whichever occurs first. However, this period of evaporation will be changed if the results obtained do not represent the hazard of the substance under reasonably foreseeable conditions of use.
