
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.43a Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials.
###### Calibration and standardization.

(h)(1) Before initial use determine and plot the relationship between the temperature control dial and the thermometer readings at each major (numbered) dial division as follows:

Turn the temperature control knobfully counterclockwise ("O" reading). Advance the temperature control knob clockwise until the indicator light is illuminated.Advance the knob clockwise to the next numbered line. After the thermometer mercury column ceases to advance, record the dial reading and the temperature. Advance the knob clockwise to the next numbered line. After the thermometer mercury column ceases to advance, read the dial reading and the temperature. Repeat this procedure through the full range of the instrument. Plot the dial readings versus the respective temperatures.

(2) Standardize the instrument using a sample of material meeting the specifications in table 1. If the average of two determinations falls within the acceptable limits the instrument is assumed to be operating properly. If the average of the two determinations does not fall within this range, check the manufacturer's operating and maintenance instructions and determine that they are being followed. In particular, be sure that the cup lid assembly makes a vapor-tight seal with the cup, the shutter provides a light-tight seal, and that adequate heat transfer paste surrounds the thermometer bulb and the immersed portion of the barrel.
