
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.43a Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials.
###### Test Method A-for determining Flash/No Flash.

(i)(1) Determine the target flashpoint as follows:

(i) Target flashpoint, &#xB0;C = S-0.25 (101.3-A)

(ii) Target flashpoint, &#xB0;C = S-0.03 (760-B)

(iii) Target flashpoint, &#xB0;F = S-0.06 (760-B)

(2) Inspect the inside of the sample cup, lid, and shutter mechanism for cleaniness and freedom from contamination. Use an absorbent paper tissue to wipe clean, if necessary. Put cover in place and lock securely. The filing orifice may be convenienty cleaned with a pipe cleaner.

(3) Set the instrument at the target temperature.

(i) For target temperature below ambient. The instrument power switch is to be in the off position. Fill the refigerant-charged cooling block with a suitable material.Raise the lid and shutter assembly, and position the base of the block in the sample cup, being careful not to injure or mar the cup. When the thermometer reads approximately 6 to 10 &#xB0;C (10 to 20 &#xB0;F) below the target temperature, remove the cooling block and quickly dry the cup with a paper tissue to remove any moisture. Immediately close the lid and shutter assembly and secure. Prepare to introduce the sample using the syringe, both of which have been precooled to a temperature 5 to 10 &#xB0;C (10 to 20 &#xB0;F) below the target temperature.

(A) Caution: Do not cool the sample block below -38 &#xB0;C, the freezing point of mercury.

(B) Caution: Acetone is extremely flammable. Keep away from heat, sparks, and flames and keep container closed when not actually pouring acetone. Use only in a well-ventilated area. Avoid inhalation and contact with the eyes or skin. Use cloth or leather gloves, goggles or safety shield, and keep dry ice in a canvas bag, especially when cracking.

(ii) For target temperature above ambient. Switch the instrument on and turn the coarse temperature control knob fully clockwise (full on) causing the indicator light to illuminate.When the thermometer indicates a temperature about 3 &#xB0;C (5 &#xB0;F) below the target (or specification) temperature, reduce the heat input to the sample cup by turning the coarse temperature control knob counter-clockwise to the desired control point (see ยง 1500.43a(i)(1)). When the indicator light slowly cycles on and off read the temperature on the thermometer. If necessary, adjust the fine (center) temperature control knob to obtain the desired test (target) temperature. When the test temperature is reached and the indicator lamp slowly cycles on and off, prepare to introduce the sample.

(4) Charge the syringe with a 2-ml specimen of the sampleto be tested; transfer the syringe to the filling orifice, taking care not to lose any sample; discharge the test specimen into the cup by fully depressing the syringe plunger, remove the syringe.

(5)(i) Set the timerby rotating its knob clockwise to its stop. Open the gas control valve and light the pilot and test flames. Adjust the test flame with the pinch valve to conform to the size of the 4-mm (5/32-in.) gage.

(ii) After the time signal indicates the specimen is at test temperature, apply the test flame by slowly and uniformly opening the shutter and closing it completely over a period of approximately 2s.Watch closely for a flash at the cup openings.

(iii) The sample is deemed to have flashed when a large flame appears and instantaneously propagates itself over the surface of the sample (see ยง 1500.43a(c)).

(6) Record the test results as "flash" or "no flash" and the test temperature.

(7) Turn off the pilot and test flames using the gas control valve. Remove the sample and clean the instrument. It may be necessary to allow the cup temperature to decline to a safe level before cleaning.
