
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### § 1500.43a Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials.
###### Test Method B-for determining Finite or Actual Flashpoint.

(j)(1) Inspect the inside of the sample cup, lid, and shutter mechanism for cleanliness and freedom from contamination. Use an absorbent paper tissue to wipe clean, if necessary. Put cover in place and lock securely. The filling orifice may be conveniently cleaned with a pipe cleaner.

(2) For expected flashpoints below ambient. (i) The instrument power switch is to be in off position. Fill the refrigerant-charged cooling block with a suitable material.Raise the lid and shutter assembly, and position the base of the block in the sample cup, being careful not to injure or mar the cup. When the thermometer reaches a temperature 5 to 10 &#xB0;C (10 to 20 &#xB0;F) below the expected flashpoint, remove the cooling block and quickly dry the cup with a paper tissue to remove any moisture. Immediately close the lid and shutter assembly and secure. Prepare to introduce the sample using the syringe, both of which have been precooled to a temperature 5 to 10 &#xB0;C (10 to 20 &#xB0;F) below the expected temperature (See § 1500.43a(j)(5)).

(ii) Caution: Do not cool the sample block below -38 &#xB0;C, the freezing point of mercury.

(3) For tests where the expected flashpoint is above ambient. Turn the coarse temperature control knob fully clockwise (full on) causing the indicator light to illuminate. When the thermometer reaches a temperature 3 &#xB0;C (5 &#xB0;F) below the estimated flashpoint, turn the coarse temperature knob counter-clockwise to the dial reading representing the estimated flashpoint temperature as shown on the calibration curve (See § 1500.43a(h)(1)). When the indicator light slowly cycles on and off, read the temperature on the thermometer. If necessary, adjust the fine temperature control knob to obtain the exact desired temperature.

(4)(i) Charge the syringewith a 2 ml specimen of the sampleto be tested; transfer the syringe to the filling orifice, taking care not to lose any sample; discharge the test specimen into the cup by fully depressing the syringe plunger; remove the syringe.

(ii) Set the timerby rotating its knob clockwise to its stop. Open the gas control valve and ignite the pilot and test flames. Adjust the test flame with the pinch valve to conform to the size of the 4-mm (-in.) gage.

(iii) After the audible time signal indicates the specimen is at test temperature,apply the test flame by slowly and uniformly opening the shutter and then closing it completely over a period of approximately 2s. Watch closely for a flash at the cup opening.

(iv) The sample is deemed to have flashed only if a large flame appears and instantaneously propagates itself over the surface of the sample. (See § 1500.43a(c).)

(v) Turn off the pilot and test flames using the gas control valve. When the cup temperature declines to a safe level, remove the sample and clean the instrument.

(5)(i) If a flash was observed in § 1500.43a(j)(4)(iii) repeat the procedure given in § 1500.43a(j)(2) or (3), and in § 1500.43a(j)(4), testing a new specimen at a temperature 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) below that at which the flash was observed.

(ii) If necessary, repeat the procedure in § 1500.43a(j)(5)(i), lowering the temperature 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) each time, until no flash is observed.

(iii) Proceed to § 1500.43a(j)(7).

(6)(i) If no flash was observed in § 1500.43a(j)(4)(iii) repeat the procedure given in § 1500.43a(j)(2) or (3), and in § 1500.43a(j)(4), testing a fresh specimen at a temperature 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) above that at which the specimen was tested in § 1500.43a(j)(4)(iii).

(ii) If necessary repeat the procedure in § 1500.43a(j)(6)(i), above, raising the temperature 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) each time until a flash is observed.

(7) Having established a flash within two temperatures 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) apart, repeat the procedure at 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F) intervals from the lower of the two temperatures until a flash is observed.Record the temperature of the test when this flash occurs as the flashpoint, allowing for any known thermometer correction. Record the barometric pressure.

(8) The flashpoint determined in § 1500.43a(j)(7) will be to the nearest 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F). If improved accuracy is desired (that is, to the nearest 0.5 &#xB0;C (1 &#xB0;F)), test a fresh specimen at a temperature 0.5 &#xB0;C (1 &#xB0;F) below that at which the flash was observed in § 1500.43a(j)(7). If no flash is observed, the temperature recorded in § 1500.43a(j)(7), is the flashpoint to the nearest 0.5 &#xB0;C (1 &#xB0;F). If a flash is observed at the lower temperature, record this latter temperature as the flashpoint.

(9) Turn off the pilot and test flames using the gas control valve. When the cup temperature declines to a safe level, remove the sample and clean the instrument.
