
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.43a Method of test for flashpoint of volatile flammable materials.
###### Flash Test Apparatus.

(m)(1)(i) Unit consisting of an aluminum alloy or nonrusting metal block of suitable conductivity with a cylindrical depression, or sample cup, over which is fitted a cover. A thermometer is embedded in the block.

(ii) The cover is fitted with an opening slide and a device capable of inserting an ignition flame (diameter 4+/-0.5 mm) into the well when the slide device shall intersect the plane of the underside of the cover. The cover is also provided with an orifice extending into the sample well for insertion of the test sample and also a suitable clamping device for securing the cover tightly to the metal block. The three openings in the cover shall be within the diameter of the sample well. When the slide is in the open position, the two openings in the slide shall coincide exactly with the two corresponding openings in the cover.

(iii) Electrical heaters are attached to the bottom of the cup in a manner that provides efficient transfer of heat. An electronic heat control is required to hold the equilibrium temperature, in a draft-free area, within 0.1 &#xB0;C (0.2 &#xB0;F) for the low-temperature tester. A visual indicator lamp shows when energy is or is not being applied. Energy may be supplied from 120 or 240 V, 50 or 60 Hz main service.

(2)(i) Test flame and pilot flame-regulatable test flame, for dipping into the sample cup to try for flash, and a pilot flame, to maintain the test flame, are required. These flames may be fueled by piped gas service. A gage ring 4mm (5/32 in.) in diameter, engraved on the lid near the test flame, is required to ensure uniformity in the size of the test flame.

(ii) Caution: Never recharge the self-contained gas tank at elevated temperature, or with the pilot or test flames lighted, nor in the vicinity of other flames.

(iii) Audible Signal is required. The audiable signal is given after 1 min in the case of the low-temperature tester.

(iv) Syringe. 2ml capacity, equipped with a needle suitable for use with the apparatus, adjusted to deliver 2.00+/-0.05 ml.

(3) Essential dimensions of the test apparatus are set forth in table 3.
