
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.48 Technical requirements for determining a sharp point in toys and other articles intended for use by children under 8 years of age.
###### Insertion depth for accessibility.

(3)(i) For any hole, recess, or opening having a minor dimension (The minor dimension of an opening is the diameter of the largest sphere that will pass through the opening.) smaller than the collar diameter of the appropriate probe, the total insertion depth for accessibility shall be up to the collar on the appropriate probe. Each probe joint may be rotated up to 90 degrees to simulate knuckle movement.

(ii) For any hole, recess, or opening having a minor dimension larger than the collar diameter of probe A but less than 7.36 inches (186.9 millimeters), when probe A is used, or a minor dimension larger than the collar diameter of probe B but less than 9.00 inches (228.6 millimeters), when probe B is used, the total insertion depth for accessibility shall be determined by inserting the appropriate probe with the extension shown in figure 2 in any direction up to two and one-quarter times the minor dimension of the probe, recess, or opening, measured from any point in the plane of the opening. Each probe joint may be rotated up to 90 degrees to simulate knuckle movement.

(iii) For any hole, recess, or opening having a minor dimension of 7.36 inches (186.9 millimeters) or larger when probe A is used, or a minor di-mension of 9.00 inches (228.6 millimeters), or larger when probe B is used, the total insertion depth for accessibility is unrestricted unless other holes, recesses, or openings within the original hole, recess, or opening are encountered with dimensions specified in paragraph (c)(3) (i) or (ii) of this section. In such instances, the appropriate paragraphs (c)(3) (i) or (ii) of this section shall be followed. If both probes are to be used, a minor dimen-sion that is 7.36 inches (186.9 millimeters or larger shall determine unrestricted access.
