
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.48 Technical requirements for determining a sharp point in toys and other articles intended for use by children under 8 years of age.
###### Procedure.

(2)(i) The sample to be tested shall be held in such a manner that it does not move during the test.

(ii) Part of the test sample may need to be removed to allow the sharp point testing device to test a point that is accessible by the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section. Such dismantling of the test sample could affect the rigidity of the point in question. The sharp point test shall be performed with the point supported so that its stiffness approximates but is not greater than the point stiffness in the assembled sample.

(iii) Using the general configuration shown in figure 1 of this section, the adjustment and operation of the sharp point tester is as follows: Hold the sharp point tester and loosen the lock ring by rotating it so that it moves towards the indicator lamp assembly a sufficient distance to expose the calibration reference marks on the barrel. Rotate the gaging can clockwise until the indicator lamp lights. Rotate the cap counterclockwise until an equivalent of five divisions (the distance between the short lines on the cap) have passed the calibration reference mark. Lock the gaging cap in this position by rotating the lock ring until it fits firmly against the cap. Insert the point into the gaging slot in all directions in which it was accessible by the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section, and apply a force of 1.00 pound (4.45 newtons). A glowing light identifies the point as sharp.

(iv) The test instruments used by the Commission in its tests for compliance with this regulation shall have gaging slot opening dimensions no greater than 0.040 inch by 0.045 inch and shall have the sensing head recessed a depth of no less than 0.015 inch. The force applied by the Commission when inserting a point into the gaging slot shall be no more than 1.00 pound.

(e) For the purpose of conformance with the technical requirements prescribed by this ยง 1500.48, the English figures shall be used. The metric approximations are provided in parentheses for convenience and information only.
