
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.49 Technical requirements for determining a sharp metal or glass edge in toys and other articles intended for use by children under 8 years of age.
###### Specifications for sharp edge test equipment.

(e)The following specifications shall apply to the equipment to be used in the sharp edge test described in paragraph (d) of this section:

(1) The rotation of the mandrel shall produce a constant tangential velocity of 1.00+/-0.08 inch per second (25.4+/-2.0 millimeters per second) during the center 75 percent of its rotation and shall have a smooth start and stop.

(2) The mandrel shall be made of steel. The test surface of the mandrel shall be free of scratches, nicks, or burrs and shall have a surface roughness no greater than 16 microinches (0.40 micron). The test surface shall have a hardness no less than 40 as measured on the Rockwell "C" scale, as determined pursuant to ASTM E 18-74 entitled "Standard Test Methods for Rockwell Hardness and Rockwell Superficial Hardness of Metallic Materials," published July 1974 and which is incorporated by reference in this regulation. (Copies are available from American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19103.) The diameter of the mandrel shall be 0.375+/-0.005 inch (9.35+/-0.12 millimeters). The mandrel shall be of suitable length to carry out the test.

(3) The tape shall be pressure-sensitive polytetrafluoroethylene (TFE) high temperature electrical insulation tape as described in Military Specification MIL-I-23594B (1971) which is incorporated by reference in this regulation. (Copies are available from Naval Publications and Forms Center, 5801 Tabor Ave., Philadelphia, Pa. 19120.) The thickness of the polytetrafluoroethylene backing shall be between 0.0026 inch (0.066 millimeter) and 0.0035 inch (0.089 millimeter).The adhesive shall be pressure-sensitive silicone polymer with a nominal thickness of 0.003 inch (.08 millimeter). The width of the tape shall not be less thaninch (6 millimeters). While conducting sharp edge tests the temperature of the tape shall be maintained between 70 &#xB0;F (21.1 &#xB0;C) and 80 &#xB0;F (26.6 &#xB0;C).

(f) For the purpose of conformance with the technical requirements prescribed by this ยง 1500.49, the English figures shall be used. The metric approximations are provided in parentheses for convenience and information only.
