
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.85 Exemptions from classification as banned hazardous substances.
###### banned hazardous substances

(a) The termas used in section 2(q)(1)(A) of the act shall not apply to the following articles provided that these articles bear labeling giving adequate directions and warnings for safe use:

(1) Chemistry sets and other science education sets intended primarily for juveniles, and replacement components for such sets, when labeled in accordance with ยง 1500.83(a)(23).

(2) Firecrackers designed to produce audible effects, if the audible effect is produced by a charge of not more than 50 milligrams (.772 grains) of pyrotechnic composition. (See also ยง 1500.14(b)(7); ยง 1500.17(a) (3), (8) and (9); and part 1507).

(3) [Reserved]

(4) Educational materials such as art materials, preserved biological specimens, laboratory chemicals, and other articles intended and used for educational purposes.

(5) Liquid fuels containing more than 4 percent by weight of methyl alcohol that are intended and used for operation of miniature engines for model airplanes, boats, cars, etc.

(6) Novelties consisting of a mixture of polyvinyl acetate, U.S. Certified Colors, and not more than 25 percent by weight of acetone, and intended for blowing plastic balloons.

(7) Games containing, as the sole hazardous component, a self-pressurized container of soap solution or similar foam-generating mixture provided that the foam-generating component has no hazards other than being in a self-pressurized container.

(8) Model rocket propellant devices designed for use in light-weight, recoverable, and reflyable model rockets, provided such devices:

(i) Are designed to be ignited by electrical means.

(ii) Contain no more than 62.5 grams (2.2 ounces) of propellant material and produce less than 80 newton-seconds (17.92 pound seconds) of total impulse with thrust duration not less than 0.050 second.

(iii) Are constructed such that all the chemical ingredients are preloaded into a cylindrical paper or similarly constructed nonmetallic tube that will not fragment into sharp, hard pieces.

(iv) Are designed so that they will not burst under normal conditions of use, are incapable of spontaneous ignition, and do not contain any type of explosive or pyrotechnic warhead other than a small parachute or recovery-system activation charge.

(9) Separate delay train and/or recovery system activation devices intended for use with premanufactured model rocket engines wherein all of the chemical ingredients are preloaded so the user does not handle any chemical ingredient and are so designed that the main casing or container does not rupture during operation.

(10) Solid fuel pellets intended for use in miniature jet engines for propelling model jet airplanes, speed boats, racing cars, and similar models, provided such solid fuel pellets:

(i) Weigh not more than 11.5 grams each.

(ii) Are coated with a protective resinous film.

(iii) Contain not more than 35 percent potassium dichromate.

(iv) Produce a maximum thrust of not more than 7ounces when used as directed.

(v) Burn not longer than 12 seconds each when used as directed.

(11) Fuses intended for igniting fuel pellets exempt under subparagraph (10) of this paragraph.

(12) Kits intended for construction of model rockets and jet propelled model airplanes requiring the use of difluorodichloromethane as a propellant, provided the outer carton bears on the main panel in conspicuous type size the statement "WARNING-Carefully read instructions and cautions before use."

(13) Flammable wire materials intended for electro-mechanical actuation and release devices for model kits described in paragraph (12) of this section, provided each wire does not exceed 15 milligrams in weight.

(14) Model rocket propellant devices (model rocket motors) designed to propel rocket-powered model cars, provided-

(i) Such devices:

(A) Are designed to be ignited electrically and are intended to be operated from a minimum distance of 15 feet (4.6 m) away;

(B) Contain no more than 4 g. of propellant material and produce no more than 2.5 Newton-seconds of total impulse with a thrust duration not less than 0.050 seconds;

(C) Are constructed such that all the chemical ingredients are pre-loaded into a cylindrical paper or similarly constructed non-metallic tube that will not fragment into sharp, hard pieces;

(D) Are designed so that they will not burst under normal conditions of use, are incapable of spontaneous ignition, and do not contain any type of explosive or pyrotechnic warhead other than a small recovery system activation charge;

(E) Bear labeling, including labeling that the devices are intended for use by persons age 12 and older, and include instructions providing adequate warnings and instructions for safe use; and

(F) Comply with the requirements of 16 CFR 1500.83(a)(36)(ii and iii); and

(ii) The surface vehicles intended for use with such devices:

(A) Are lightweight, weighing no more than 3.0 oz. (85 grams), and constructed mainly of materials such as balsa wood or plastics that will not fragment into sharp, hard pieces;

(B) Are designed to utilize a braking system such as a parachute or shock absorbing stopping mechanism;

(C) Are designed so that they cannot accept propellant devices measuring larger than 0.5&#x2033; (13 mm) in diameter and 1.75&#x2033; (44 mm) in length;

(D) Are designed so that the engine mount is permanently attached by the manufacturer to a track or track line that controls the vehicle's direction for the duration of its movement;

(E) Are not designed to carry any type of explosive or pyrotechnic material other than the model rocket motor used for primary propulsion;

(F) Bear labeling and include instructions providing adequate warnings and instructions for safe use; and

(G) Are designed to operate on a track or line that controls the vehicles' direction for the duration of their movement and either cannot operate off the track or line or, if operated off the track or line, are unstable and fail to operate in a guided fashion so that they will not strike the operator or bystanders.

(b) [Reserved]
