
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.121 Labeling requirements; prominence, placement, and conspicuousness.
###### Principal display panel labeling.

(2)(i) All items of cautionary labeling required by the Act may appear on the principal display panel on the immediate container and, if appropriate, on any other container or wrapper. See paragraph (b)(4) of this section for requirements and exceptions for labeling outer containers and wrappings.

(ii) The signal word, the statement of principal hazard(s), and, if appropriate, instructions to read carefully any cautionary material that may be placed elsewhere on the label shall be blocked together within a square or rectangular area, with or without a border, on the principal display panel on the immediate container and, where required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, on any outer container or wrapping. All cautionary statements placed on the principal display panel shall be separated on all sides from other printed or graphic matter, with the exception of the declaration of net contents required under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, 15 U.S.C. 1453(a) (2) and (3), by a border line or by a space no smaller than the minimum allowable height of the type size for cautionary material required by the Act (exclusive of signal words and statements of hazard) on the principal display panel.

(iii) Depending on the design of the package or the configuration of the label, or both, a package may have more than one principal display panel. If so, each principal display panel must bear, at a minimum, the signal word, statement of principal hazard or hazards, and, if appropriate, instructions to read carefully any cautionary material that may be placed elsewhere on the label.

(A) Where the principal display panel of the immediate container consists of a lid, cap, or other item which may be separated from the immediate container and discarded, the container shall be deemed to have a second principal display panel elsewhere on the immediate container which must bear, at a minimum, the signal word, statement of principal hazard(s), and instructions, if appropriate, to read any cautionary material which may be placed elsewhere on the label.
