
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.121 Labeling requirements; prominence, placement, and conspicuousness.
###### Placement of the word "Poison" and the skull and crossbones symbol.

(5)The word "poison" and, when appropriate, the skull and crossbones symbol shall appear on the label of a hazardous substance as follows:

(i) If a hazardous substance is "highly toxic," as defined in ยง 1500.3(c)(i) and section 2(h)(1) of the FHSA, the label must bear the word "poison" in accordance with section 2(p)(1)(H) of the Act, in addition to the signal word "DANGER," and must also bear the skull and crossbones symbol. Some products, under ยง 1500.14(b) of the regulations, may, in addition to any required signal word, be required to bear the word "poison" and the skull and crossbones symbol because of the special hazard associated with their ingredients. In both instances, the word "poison" and the skull and crossbones symbol need not appear on the principal display panel on the container, unless all other cautionary labeling required by the Act appears on the principal display panel. The word "poison" and the skull and crossbones symbol, when required, must appear either together with other cautionary labeling on a display panel other than the principal display panel or together with the signal word and statement(s) of principal hazard on the principal display panel.

(ii) Where, pursuant to a regulation issued under section 3(b) of the Act, the label of a hazardous substance requires the word "poison" instead of a signal word, the word, "POISON" shall appear in capital letters on the principal display panel, together with the statement(s) of the principal hazard. Certain substances for which the word "poison" is required instead of any signal word are listed in ยง 1500.129.
