
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.121 Labeling requirements; prominence, placement, and conspicuousness.
###### Area of principal display panel.

(1)The area of the principal display panel is the area of the side or surface of the immediate container, or of the side or surface of any outer container or wrapping, that bears the labeling designed to be most prominently displayed, shown, presented, or examined under conditions of retail sale. This area is not limited to the portion of the surface covered with labeling; rather, it includes the entire surface. Flanges at the tops and bottoms of cans, conical shoulders of cans, handles, and shoulders and necks of bottles and jars are excluded in measuring the area. For the purposes of determining the proper type size for cautionary labeling, the area of the principal display panel (or other panel bearing cautionary labeling, under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section) is to be computed as follows:

(i) In the case of a rectangular package, where one entire side is the principal display panel, the product of the height times the width of that side shall be the area of the principal display panel.

(ii) In the case of a cylindrical or nearly cylindrical container or tube on which the principal display panel appears on the side, the area of the principal display panel shall be 40 percent of the product of the height of the container times its circumference.

(iii) In the case of any other shape of container, the area of the principal display panel shall be 40 percent of the total surface of the container, excluding those areas, such as flanges at tops and bottoms, specified in paragraph (c)(1) above. However, if such a container presents an obvious principal display panel (such as an oval or hour-glass shaped area on the side of a container for dishwashing detergent), the area to be measured shall be the entire area of the obvious principal display panel.
