
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### § 1500.133 Extremely flammable contact adhesives; labeling.

(a) Extremely flammable contact adhesives, also known as contact bonding cements, when distributed in containers intended or suitable for household use may be misbranded under the act if the containers fail to bear a warning statement adequate for the protection of the public health and safety.

(b) The following warning statement is considered as the minimum cautionary labeling adequate to meet the requirements of section 2(p)(1) of the act (repeated in § 1500.3(b)(14)(i)) with respect to containers of more than one-half pint of contact adhesive and similar liquid or semiliquid articles having a flashpoint at or below 20 &#xB0;F. as determined by the method in § 1500.43, when the only hazard foreseeable is that caused by the extreme flammability of the mixture:

(c) The words that are in capital letters in the warning statement set forth in paragraph (b) of this section should be printed on the main (front) panel or panels of the container in capital letters of the type size specified in § 1500.121(c). The balance of the cautionary information may appear together on another panel provided the front panel bears a statement such as "Read carefully other cautions on ___ panel," the blank being filled in with the identification of the specific label panel bearing the balance of the cautionary labeling. It is recommended that a borderline be used in conjunction with the cautionary labeling.

(d) If an article has additional hazards, or contains ingredients listed in § 1500.14 as requiring special labeling, appropriate additional front and rear panel precautionary labeling is required.

(e) Since the Commission has issued a regulation banning under the Consumer Product Safety Act extremely flammable contact adhesives covered by this labeling regulation (sec. 16 CFR part 1302), paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section are revoked as to the subject products after June 13, 1978.
