
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.135 Summary of guidelines for determining chronic toxicity.

A substance may be toxic due to a risk of a chronic hazard. (A regulatory definition of "toxic" that pertains to chronic toxicity may be found at 16 CFR 1500.3(c)(2).) The following discussions are intended to help clarify the complex issues involved in assessing risk from substances that may potentially cause chronic hazards and, where possible, to describe conditions under which substances should be considered toxic due to a risk of the specified chronic hazards. The guidelines are not intended to be a static classification system, but should be considered along with available data and with expert judgment. They are not mandatory. Rather, the guidelines are intended as an aid to manufacturers in determining whether a product subject to the FHSA presents a chronic hazard. All default assumptions contained in the guidelines on hazard and risk determination are subject to replacement when alternatives which are supported by appropriate data become available. The following are brief summaries of more extensive discussions contained in the guidelines. Thus, the guidelines should be consulted in conjunction with these summaries. Copies of the guidelines may be obtained from the Office of Compliance and Enforcement, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207. (In addition to the chronic hazards discussed below, issues relating to the chronic hazard of sensitization are discussed in 16 CFR 1500.3(c)(5).)
