
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.135 Summary of guidelines for determining chronic toxicity.
###### Assessment of Risk.

(3)This section on quantitative risk assessment applies to estimates of risk for substances that are toxic by reason of their carcinogenicity.

(i) Generally, the study leading to the highest risk should be used in the risk assessment; however, other factors may influence the choice of study.

(ii) Risk should be based on the maximum likelihood estimate from a multistage model (such as Global83 or later version) unless the maximum likelihood estimate is not linear at low dose, in which case the 95% upper confidence limit on risk should be used.

(iii) For systemic carcinogens, if estimates of human risk are made based on animal data, a factor derived from dividing the assumed human weight (70 kg) by the average animal weight during the study and taking that to thepower should be used. There is the possibility that this factor may be changed, using thepower instead of thepower, as part of a unified Federal regulatory approach. If such an approach is adopted, it will apply here.

(iv) When dose is expressed as parts per million, and the carcinogen acts at the site of contact, humans and animals exposed to the same amount for the same proportion of lifetime should be assumed to be equally sensitive.

(v) If no experimental study having the same route of exposure as that anticipated for human use of a substance is available, a study by another route of exposure may be used. Pharmacokinetic methods may be used if sufficient data are available.

(vi) When exposure scenarios are different from those used in the underlying study upon which estimates of risk are based, proportionality should be applied. If pharmacokinetic methods are used to adjust for risks at high versus low exposure levels, level-time measures should not be combined without taking the non-linearity into account.
