
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1500 - HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND ARTICLES: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### ยง 1500.231 Guidance for hazardous liquid chemicals in children's products.
###### Guidance.

(c)(1) Under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (FHSA), products that are toxic or irritants and that may cause substantial injury or illness under reasonably foreseeable conditions of handling or use, including reasonably foreseeable ingestion by children, are "hazardous substances." 15 U.S.C. 1261(f)(1). A product that is not intended for children, but that creates a risk of substantial injury or illness because it contains hazardous chemicals, requires precautionary labeling under the Act. 15 U.S.C. 1261(p). A toy or other article intended for use by children that contains an accessible and harmful amount of a hazardous chemical is banned. 15 U.S.C. 1261(q)(1)(A). In evaluating the potential hazard associated with children's products that contain hazardous chemicals, the Commission's staff considers certain factors on a case-by-case basis, including: the total amount of the hazardous chemical in a product, the accessibility of the hazardous chemicals to children, the risk presented by that accessibility, the age and foreseeable behavior of the children exposed to the product, and the marketing, patterns of use, and life cycle of the product.

(2) The Commission's staff has identified a number of liquid-filled children's products, such as rolling balls, bubble watches, necklaces, pens, paperweights, maze toys, liquid timers, and keychains, that contain hazardous chemicals. In several of these cases, the staff determined that these products violated the FHSA because they presented a risk of chemical poisoning and/or chemical pneumonia from aspiration. This determination resulted in recalls or in the replacement of those products with substitutes, as well as in agreements with the manufacturers to discontinue the use of hazardous chemicals in liquid-filled children's products in future production. The Commission believes that these hazardous substances pose a risk to young children and, consequently, manufacturers should not have included them in the product design or manufacturing process.

(3) Therefore, the Commission considers the use of hazardous chemicals in children's products such as those described above to be ill-advised and encourages manufacturers to avoid using them in such products. Further, the Commission recommends that, before purchasing such products for resale, importers, distributors, and retailers obtain assurances from the manufacturers that liquid-filled children's products do not contain hazardous liquid chemicals.
