
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart B - Initiation of Proceedings
###### § 1502.6 Filing objections and requests for a hearing on a regulation.

(a) Objections and requests for a hearing under § 1502.5(a) must be filed with the Office of the Secretary and will be accepted for filing if they meet the following conditions:

(1) They are submitted within the time specified in § 1502.5(b).

(2) Each objection is separately numbered.

(3) Each objection specifies with particularity the provision(s) of the regulation to which that objection is directed.

(4) Each objection on which a hearing is requested specifically requests a hearing. Failure to request a hearing on an objection constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing on that objection.

(5) Each objection for which a hearing is requested includes a detailed description of the basis for the objection and the factual information or analysis in support thereof. Failure to include a description and analysis for an objection constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing on that objection. The description and analysis may be used only for the purpose of determining whether a hearing has been justified under § 1502.8, and do not limit the evidence that may be presented if a hearing is granted.

(i) A copy of any report, article, survey, or other written document relied upon must be submitted, unless the document is-

(A) A CPSC document that is routinely publicly available; or

(B) A recognized medical or scientific textbook or journal in the public domain.

(ii) A summary of the non-documentary testimony to be presented by any witnesses relied upon must be submitted.

(b) If an objection or request for a public hearing fails to meet the requirements of this section the Office of the General Counsel shall notify the Office of the Secretary of the deficiency. The Office of the Secretary shall return it with a copy of the applicable regulations, indicating those provisions not complied with. A deficient objection or request for a hearing may be supplemented and subsequently filed if submitted within the 30-day time period specified in § 1502.5(b).

(c) If another person objects to a regulation issued in response to a petition, the petitioner may submit a written reply to the Office of the Secretary on or before the 15th day after the last day for filing objections.
