
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart B - Initiation of Proceedings
###### ยง 1502.8 Ruling on objections and requests for hearing.

(a) As soon as practicable, the Commission will review all objections and requests for hearing filed under ยง 1502.6 and determine-

(1) Whether the regulation should be modified or revoked under ยง 1502.9; and

(2) Whether a hearing has been justified.

(b) A request for a hearing will be granted if the material submitted shows the following:

(1) There is a genuine and substantial issue of fact for resolution at a hearing. A hearing will not be granted on issues of policy or law.

(2) The factual issue can be resolved by available and specifically identified reliable evidence. A hearing will not be granted on the basis of mere allegations or denials or general descriptions of positions and contentions.

(3) The data and information submitted, if established at a hearing, would be adequate to justify resolution of the factual issue in the way sought by the person. A hearing will be denied if the Commission concludes that the data and information submitted, even though accurate, are insufficient to justify the factual determination urged.

(4) Resolution of the factual issue in the way sought by the person is adequate to justify the action requested. A hearing will not be granted on factual issues that are not determinative with respect to the action requested, e.g., if the Commission concludes that the Commission's action would be the same even if the factual issue were resolved in the way sought, or if a request is made that a final regulation include a provision not reasonably encompassed by the proposal.

(5) The action requested is not inconsistent with any provision in the FHSA or any regulation in 16 CFR subchapter C explaining or particularizing the requirements of the FHSA.

(6) The requirements in other applicable regulations, and in the notice promulgating the final regulation or the notice of opportunity for hearing are met.

(c) In making the determinations specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission may issue an appropriate order on the determinations without further notice or opportunity for comment from interested parties. However, the Commission, at its option, may use the procedure specified in 16 CFR part 1052 or any other applicable public procedure available to it.

(d) If it is uncertain whether a hearing has been justified under the principles in paragraph (b) of this section, and the Commission concludes that summary decision against the person requesting a hearing should be considered, the Commission may serve upon the person by registered mail a proposed order denying a hearing. The person has 30 days after receipt of the proposed order to demonstrate that the submission justifies a hearing.
