
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart B - Initiation of Proceedings
###### ยง 1502.10 Denial of hearing in whole or in part.

(a) If the Commission determines upon review of the objections or requests for hearing that a hearing is not justified, in whole or in part, a notice of the determination will be published in the

(b) The notice will state whether the hearing is denied in whole or in part. If the hearing is denied in part, the notice will be combined with the notice of hearing required by ยง 1502.13, and will specify the objections and requests for hearing that have been granted and denied.

(c) Any denial will be explained. A denial based on an analysis of the information submitted to justify a hearing will explain the inadequacy of the information.

(d) The notice will confirm, modify, or stay the effective date of the regulation involved.

(e) The record of the administrative proceeding relating to denial in whole or in part of a public hearing on an objection or request for hearing consists of the following:

(1) The entire rulemaking record;

(2) The objections and requests for hearing filed by the Office of the Secretary; and

(3) The notice denying a formal evidentiary public hearing.

(f) The record specified in paragraph (e) of this section is the exclusive record for the Commission's decision on the complete or partial denial of a hearing. The record of the proceeding will be closed as of the date of the Commission's decision denying a hearing, unless another date is specified. A person who requested and was denied a hearing may submit a petition for reconsideration or a petition for stay of the Commission's action. A person who wishes to rely upon information or views not included in the administrative record shall submit them to the Commission with a petition to modify the final regulation.

(g) Denial of a request for a hearing in whole or in part is final agency action reviewable in the courts, under the statutory provisions governing the matter involved, as of the date of publication of the denial in the

(1) Before requesting a court for a stay of the Commission's action pending judicial review, a person shall first submit a petition to the Commission for a stay of action.

(2) The time for filing a petition for judicial review of a denial of a hearing on an objection or issue begins on the date the denial is published in theThe failure to file a petition for judicial review within the period established in the statutory provision governing the matter involved constitutes a waiver of the right to judicial review of the objection or issue, regardless whether a hearing has been granted on other objections and issues.
