
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart C - Appearance and Participation
###### ยง 1502.17 Advice on public participation in hearings.

(a) All inquiries from the public about scheduling, location, and general procedures should be addressed to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207, or telephone (301) 504-0800.

(b) Requests by hearing participants for changes in the schedule of a hearing or for filing documents, briefs, or other pleadings should be made in writing directly to the presiding officer.

(c) Under no circumstances will the Office of the General Counsel of CPSC directly provide advice about a hearing to any person who is participating or may participate in the hearing. In every hearing, certain attorneys in the office are designated to represent the staff. Other members of the office, ordinarily including the General Counsel, are designated to advise the Commission on a final decision in the matter. It is not compatible with these functions, nor would it be professionally responsible, for the attorneys in the Office of the General Counsel also to advise other participants in a hearing, or for any attorney who may be called on to advise the Commission to respond to inquiries from other participants in the hearing; such participants may be urging views contrary to those of the staff involved or to what may ultimately be the final conclusions of the Commission. Accordingly, members of the Office of the General Counsel, other than the attorneys responsible for representing the staff, will not answer questions about the hearing from any participant or potential participant.

(d) Participants in a hearing may communicate with the attorneys responsible for representing the staff, in the same way that they may communicate with counsel for any other party in interest about the presentation of matters at the hearing. It would be inappropriate to bar discussion of such matters as stipulations of fact, joint presentation of witnesses, or possible settlement of hearing issues. Members of the public, including participants at hearings, are advised, however, that all such communications, including those by telephone, will be recorded in memoranda that can be filed with the Office of the Secretary.
