
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart C - Appearance and Participation
###### ยง 1502.17 Advice on public participation in hearings.
####### ex parte

(e) Separation of functions andcommunications will be handled as follows.

(1) An interested person may meet or correspond with any CPSC representative concerning a matter prior to publication of a notice announcing a formal evidentiary public hearing on the matter. The provisions of 16 CFR part 1012 apply to such meetings.

(2) Upon publication of a notice announcing a formal evidentiary public hearing, the following rules concerning separation of functions apply:

(i) The CPSC staff members responsible for preparing evidence and participating in the hearing in the matter are, as a party to the hearing, responsible for all investigative functions and for presentation of the position of the staff at the hearing and in any pleading or oral argument before the Commission. These representatives of the staff may not participate or advise in any decision except as witnesses or counsel in public proceedings. Except as provided herein, there shall be no other communication between representatives of the staff and representatives of the various Commissioners' offices concerning the matter prior to the decision of the Commission. The Commission may, however, designate other representatives of the staff to advise the Commission. The designation will be in writing and filed with the Office of the Secretary no later than the time specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section for the application of separation of functions. All employees of the CPSC other than representatives of the involved staff (except for those specifically designated otherwise) may be called upon to advise and participate with the offices of the Commissioners in their functions relating to the hearing and the final decision.

(ii) The General Counsel of CPSC shall designate members of the Office of the General Counsel to advise and participate with the staff in its functions in the hearing and shall designate other members of the Office of the General Counsel to advise the offices of the Commissioners in their functions related to the hearing and the final decision. The members of the Office of the General Counsel designated to advise the staff may not participate or advise in any decision of the Commission except as counsel in public proceedings. The designation shall be in the form of a memorandum filed with the Office of the Secretary and made a part of the administrative record in the proceeding. There may be no other communication between those members of the Office of the General Counsel designated to advise the offices of the Commissioners and any other person in the Office of the General Counsel or in the involved staff with respect to the matter prior to the decision of the Commission. The General Counsel may assign different attorneys to advise either the staff or the offices of the Commissioners at any stage of the proceedings. The General Counsel will ordinarily advise and participate with the offices of the Commissioners in their functions relating to the hearing and the final decision.

(iii) The Commissioners are responsible for the agency review and final decision of the matter, with the advice and participation of anyone in CPSC other than representatives of the responsible staff and those members of the Office of the General Counsel designated to assist in the staff functions in the hearing.

(iv) Between the date that separation of functions applies and the date of the Commission's decision on the matter, communication concerning the matter involved in the hearing will be restricted as follows:
