
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart C - Appearance and Participation
###### ยง 1502.17 Advice on public participation in hearings.
####### ex parte,ex parte

(A) No person outside CPSC may have ancommunication with the presiding officer or any person representing the offices of the Commissioners concerning the matter in the hearing. Neither the presiding officer nor any person representing the offices of the Commissioners may have anycommunications with a person outside CPSC concerning the matter in the hearing. All communications are to be public communications, as witness or counsel under the applicable procedures.

(B) A participant in the hearing may submit a written communication concerning a proposal for settlement to the presiding officer with a request that it be transmitted to the Commission. These communications are to be in the form of pleadings, served on all other participants, and filed with the Office of the Secretary like any other pleading.

(C) A written communication contrary to this section must be immediately served on all other participants and filed with the Office of the Secretary by the presiding officer at the hearing, or by the Commissioner, depending on who received the communication. An oral communication contrary to this section must be immediately recorded in a written memorandum and similarly served on all other participants and filed with the Office of the Secretary. A person, including a representative of a participant in the hearing, who is involved in an oral communication contrary to this section, must, if possible, be made available for cross-examination during the hearing with respect to the substance of that conversation. Rebuttal testimony pertinent to a written or oral communication contrary to this section will be permitted. Cross-examination and rebuttal testimony will be transcribed and filed with the Office of the Secretary.

(D) The making of a communication contrary to this section may, consistent with the interests of justice and the policy of the underlying statute, result in a decision adverse to the person knowingly making or causing the making of such a communication.
