
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart E - Hearing Procedures
###### ยง 1502.25 Disclosure of data and information to be relied on by the participants.

(a) Before the notice of hearing is published under ยง 1502.13, the Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs shall submit the following to the Office of the Secretary:

(1) The relevant portions of the administrative record of the proceeding. Portions of the administrative record not relevant to the issues in the hearing are not required to be submitted.

(2) All other documentary data and information relied upon.

(3) A narrative position statement on the factual issues in the notice of hearing and the type of supporting evidence the Assistant General Counsel intends to introduce.

(b) Within 60 days of the publication of the notice of hearing or, if no participant will be prejudiced, within another period of time set by the presiding officer, each participant shall submit to the Office of the Secretary all data and information specified in paragraph (a) (2) and (3) of this section and any objections that the administrative record filed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is incomplete, and any documents in the participants' files containing factual information, whether favorable or unfavorable to the regulation issued by the Commission, which relates to the issues involved in the hearing.

(c) Submissions required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be supplemented later in the proceeding, with the approval of the presiding officer, upon a showing that the material in the supplement was not reasonably known or available when the submission was made, that the relevance of the material contained in the supplement could not reasonably have been foreseen, or that admission of the material in the supplement is necessary for a fair determination of the issues involved in the hearing.

(d) A participant's failure to comply substantially and in good faith with this section constitutes a waiver of the right to participate further in the hearing; failure of a party to comply constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.

(e) Participants may reference each other's submissions. To reduce duplicative submissions, participants are encouraged to exchange and consolidate lists of documentary evidence. If a particular document is bulky or in limited supply and cannot reasonably be reproduced, and it constitutes relevant evidence, the presiding officer may authorize submission of a reduced number of copies.

(f) The presiding officer will rule on questions relating to this section.
