
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1502 - PROCEDURES FOR FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart G - Initial and Final Decision
###### ยง 1502.41 Appeal from or review of initial decision.

(a) A participant may appeal an initial decision to the Commission by filing exceptions with the Office of the Secretary, and serving them on the other participants within the period specified in the initial decision. The period for appeal to the Commission may not exceed 30 days, unless extended by the Commission under paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) Exceptions must specifically identify alleged errors in the findings of fact or conclusions of law in the initial decision, and provide supporting citations to the record. Oral argument before the Commission may be requested in the exceptions.

(c) Any reply to the exceptions shall be filed and served within the period specified in the initial decision. The period may not exceed 30 days after the end of the period (including any extensions) for filing exceptions, unless extended by the Commission under paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) The Commission may extend the time for filing exceptions or replies to exceptions for good cause shown.

(e) If the Commission decides to hear oral argument, the participants will be informed of the date, time, and place of the argument, the amount of time allotted to each participant, and the issues to be addressed.

(f) Within 10 days following the expiration of the time for filing exceptions (including any extensions), the Commission may file with the Office of the Secretary, and serve on the participants, a notice of the Commission's determination to review the initial decision. The Commission may invite the participants to file briefs or present oral argument on the matter. The time for filing briefs or presenting oral argument will be specified in that or a later notice.
