
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1505 - REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICALLY OPERATED TOYS OR OTHER ELECTRICALLY OPERATED ARTICLES INTENDED FOR USE BY CHILDREN
##### Subpart A - Regulations
###### ยง 1505.3 Labeling.
####### Specific items.

(b)(1) The toy shall be marked in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section to indicate:

(i) The electrical ratings required by paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) Any precautionary statements required by paragraph (e) of this section.

(iii) The date (month and year) of manufacture (or appropriate codes). As an alternative to putting this information on the toy itself, it may be included in the instructions provided with the toy (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section).

(2) The shelf pack or package of the toy shall be labeled in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section to indicate:

(i) The date (month and year) of manufacture (or appropriate codes).

(ii) The electrical ratings required by paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) Any precautionary statements required by paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) Each toy shall be provided with adequate instructions that are easily understood by children of those ages for which the toy is intended. The instructions shall describe the applicable installation, assembly, use, cleaning, maintenance (including lubrication), and other functions as appropriate. Applicable precautions shall be included as well as the information required by paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, except that the date of manufacture information described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section need not be included in the instructions provided with the toy if it is placed on the toy itself. The instructions shall also contain a statement addressed to parents recommending that the toy be periodically examined for potential hazards and that any potentially hazardous parts be repaired or replaced.

(4) If a toy is produced or assembled at more than one establishment, the toy and its shelf pack or package shall have a distinctive mark (which may be in code) identifying the toy as the product of a particular establishment.
