
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1505 - REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICALLY OPERATED TOYS OR OTHER ELECTRICALLY OPERATED ARTICLES INTENDED FOR USE BY CHILDREN
##### Subpart A - Regulations
###### ยง 1505.6 Performance.
####### Leakage current and repeated dielectric withstand tests.

(3)(i) Both before and after being conditioned, a toy intended to operate from a source exceeding 42.4 volts peak shall:

(A) Not have a leakage current exceeding 0.5 milliampere, except that during the interval beginning 5 seconds and terminating 10 minutes after the toy is first energized, the leakage current of toys with heating elements other than lamps shall not exceed 2.5 milliamperes; and

(B) Comply with the requirements of a repeated dielectric withstand test both with and without preheating.

(ii) All accessible parts of a toy shall be tested for leakage current. If an insulating material is used for the enclosure or part of the enclosure, the leakage current shall be measured using a metal foil with an area not exceeding 10 by 20 centimeters in contact with accessible surfaces of such insulating material. Where the accessible surface of insulating material is less than 10 by 20 centimeters, the metal foil shall be the same size as the surface. The metal foil shall be so applied that it will not affect the temperature of the toy. The accessible parts shall be tested individually, collectively, and from one part to another.

(iii) Following the initial leakage current test, the toy shall be cooled down or heated up to 32 &#xB0;C. (90 &#xB0;F.). The toy shall then be conditioned for 48 hours in air at a temperature of 32&#xB0; +/-2 &#xB0;C. (89.6&#xB0; +/-3.6 &#xB0;F.) and with a relative humidity of 90-95 percent. The specified relative humidity shall be maintained inside a closed compartment in which a saturated solution of potassium sulphate is kept in a suitable container. Leakage current measurements shall be made, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section and before the toy is energized, while the toy is in the humidity compartment.
