
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1512 - REQUIREMENTS FOR BICYCLES
##### Subpart A - Regulations
###### ยง 1512.18 Tests and test procedures.
####### Performance test procedure.

(v)The following test conditions, unless otherwise specified in this part 1512, shall be followed:

(A) The bicycle shall be ridden over a dry, clean, smooth paved test course free from protruding aggregate. The test course shall provide a coefficient of friction of less then 1.0 and shall have a slope of less than 1 percent.

(B) The wind velocity shall be less than 11 km/h (7 mph).

(C) Only the brake system under test shall be actuated.

(D) The bicycle shall attain the specified ground speed while the rider is in the normal riding position.

(E) The rider shall remain in the normal riding position throughout the test.

(F) The bicycle must be moving in a straight line at the start of brake application.

(G) Corrections for velocity at the initiation of braking may be made. The corrected braking distance shall be computed as follow:

(H) Four test runs are required. The stopping distance shall be determined by averaging the results of the four test runs.

(I) The stopping distances specified are based on a rider weight of at least 68.1 kg (150 lb) and a maximum rider and weight combination of 91 kg (200 lb). Greater stopping distances are allowable for heavier riders and test equipment weights at the rate of 0.30 m per 4.5 kg (1.0 ft per 10 lb).

(J) A test run is invalid if front-wheel lockup occurs.
