
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1512 - REQUIREMENTS FOR BICYCLES
##### Subpart A - Regulations
###### ยง 1512.18 Tests and test procedures.
####### Reflector performance test.,D

(2)(i) Arrangements for the reflector performance test shall be as shown in figure 3 and the distancebetween the light source and the reflector shall be 30.5 m (100 ft.). The source of illumination shall be a lamp with a 51 mm (2.0 in.) effective diameter and a filament operating at 2,856+/-10 percent color temperature. The observation point shall be colocated (as close as practicable) with the source of illumination. The reflector shall be mounted with the center of the reflector at the center of rotation and at the same horizontal level as the source of illumination. Photometric measurements shall be made at the observation angles and entrance angles given in tables 1 and 2.

(ii) The observation angle is the angle formed by a line from the point of observation to the center of the reflector with a second line from the center of the reflector to the source of illumination. The entrance angle is the angle between the optical axis of the reflector and a line from the center of the reflector to the source of illumination. The entrance angle shall be designated left, right, up, and down in accordance with the position of the source of illumination with respect to the axis of the reflector as viewed from behind the reflector when the plane of the observation angle is vertical and the receiver is above the source.

(iii) Photometric measurements shall be made either visually or photoelectrically. With either method, the light reflected to the observation point shall be determined. Also, the illumination on the reflector from the source shall be measured.

(iv) For visual measurements a comparison lamp, emitting light similar in spectral quality to the reflector, shall be located adjacent to the reflector (at an angle not to exceed&#xB0;) and arranged so that the candlepower can be varied from 0.01 to 0.25 to make the intensity duplicate that of the reflector under test. The candlepower of the source of the illumination of the reflector under test shall be known or determined for this test. Means shall be provided to change the intensity of the source of illumination without changing the filament color temperature. The comparison lamp shall be designed to avoid reflection from the source of illumination back in the direction of the observer. It shall be of such size and so diffused that when viewed by the observer (through a 2x reducing monocular), the candlepower can be readily compared and adjusted to that of the reflector. The observer shall have at least 10 minutes of dark adaption before making observations. For photoelectric measurements, the opening to the photocell shall not be more thaninch vertical by 1 inch horizontal.

(v) Reflectors that mount on the bicycle in a fixed rotational position with respect to the bicycle, or the bicycle component on which they are mounted (such as pedals or spokes), shall be tested with a single orientation. Reflectors that do not mount on the bicycle in a fixed rotational position with respect to the bicycle shall be rotated about their axis through 360&#xB0; to find the minimum candlepower per footcandle for each test point. If the measurement falls below the minimum requirement at any test point, the reflector shall be rotated +/-5&#xB0; about its axis from the angle where the minimum occurs, and the maximum candlepower per footcandle within this angle shall be the measured value.

(vi) Should uncolored reflections from the front surface interfere with photometric readings at any test point the lowest reading and location within 1&#xB0; above, below, right, and left of the test point shall meet the minimum requirement for the test point.

(vii) A recommended coordinate system for definition of color is the "Internationale de l'Eclairage (CIE 1931)" system. In the coordinate system and when illuminated by the source defined in table 4 of this part 1512, a reflector will be considered to be red if its color falls within the region bounded by the red spectrum locus and the lines y = 0.980-x and y = 0.335; a reflector will be considered to be amber if its color falls within the region bounded by the yellow spectrum locus and the lines y = 0.382, y = 0.790-0.667x, and y = x-0.120.

(o) Reflective tire and rim test (Ref. ยง 1512.16(h) and (i)):
