
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1512 - REQUIREMENTS FOR BICYCLES
##### Subpart A - Regulations
###### ยง 1512.18 Tests and test procedures.
####### Apparatus.,D,D,10,10,D,d,D,d

(1)Arrangements for the reflective intensity measurement shall be as shown in figure 3 of this part 1512. A light projector (having a maximum effective lens diameter of/500, whereis the distance from the source to the retroreflective surface being measured) capable of projecting light of uniform intensity shall be used to illuminate the sample. The light falling on the sample shall have a color temperature of 2856&#xB0;K +% (equivalent to a tungsten filament lamp operated at a color temperature of 2856&#xB0;K +% having approximately the relative energy distribution given in table 4 of this part 1512). The light reflected from the test surface shall be measured with a photoelectric receiver, the response of which has been corrected for the spectral sensitivity of the average photopic human eye. The dimensions of the active area of the receiver shall be such that no point on the perimeter of the receiver is more than/100 from its center (whereis the distance from the receiver to the retroreflective surface). Wheels used for the measurement of retroreflective tires or rims shall have all exposed metallic surfaces, including spokes, masked in flat black so that when measured these surfaces indicate no appreciable reflectance. The tire shall be mounted and fully inflated. Distances shall be measured from the plane of the wheel and the center of the hub. For the tests, the distancebetween the projector and the center of the wheel and distancebetween the center of the wheel and the receiver shall each be at least 15 m (50 ft.).
