
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter C - Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
#### PART 1512 - REQUIREMENTS FOR BICYCLES
##### Subpart A - Regulations
###### ยง 1512.19 Instructions and labeling.

A bicycle shall have an instruction manual attached to its frame or included with the packaged unit.

(a) The instruction manual shall include at least the following:

(1) Operations and safety instructions describing operation of the brakes and gears, cautions concerning wet weather and night-time operation, and a guide for safe on-and-off road operation.

(2) Assembly instructions for accomplishing complete and proper assembly.

(3) Maintenance instructions for proper maintenance of brakes, control cables, bearing adjustments, wheel adjustments, lubrication, reflectors, tires and handlebar and seat adjustments; should the manufacturer determine that such maintenance is beyond the capability of the consumer, specifics regarding locations where such maintenance service can be obtained shall be included.

(b) A bicycle less than fully assembled and fully adjusted shall have clearly displayed on any promotional display material and on the outside surface of the shipping carton the following: (1) A list of tools necessary to properly accomplish assembly and adjustment, (2) a drawing illustrating the minimum leg-length dimension of a rider and a method of measurement of this dimension.

(c) The minimum leg-length dimension shall be readily understandable and shall be based on allowing no less than one inch of clearance between (1) the top tube of the bicycle and the ground plane and (2) the crotch measurement of the rider. A girl's style frame shall be specified in the same way using a corresponding boys' model as a basis.

(d) [Reserved]
