
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1602 - STATEMENTS OF POLICY OR INTERPRETATION
##### ยง 1602.1 Enforcement policy.

(a) On May 14, 1973, the responsibilities of the Federal Trade Commission for enforcement of the Flammable Fabrics Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1191-1204), were transferred to the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 30(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (Pub. L. 92-573), 86 Stat. 1231 (15 U.S.C. 2079(b)).

(b) The Consumer Product Safety Commission intends to discharge its responsibilities under the Flammable Fabrics Act vigorously, expeditiously, and without compromise in order to protect the public from the hazards to life, health, and property caused by dangerously flammable products.

(c) The Consumer Product Safety Commission has determined that its enforcement policy for the Flammable Fabrics Act, will be to have available for use in each case the full range of enforcement procedures under that act without qualification or modification. Accordingly, notice is given that the Consumer Product Safety Commission hereby institutes an enforcement policy of using in each case arising under the Flammable Fabrics Act any and all appropriate enforcement procedures available under that act.

(d) In order to effectuate this policy, the above stated policy has been adopted and substituted for any conflicting determinations and policies of the Federal Trade Commission. The following determinations and policies of the Federal Trade Commission insofar as they apply to this Commission are terminated and set aside pursuant to section 30(e)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (86 Stat. 1232 (15 U.S.C. 2079(e)(2))):

(1) The Federal Trade Commission's "Flammable Fabrics Enforcement Policy" published as a notice in theof November 10, 1971 (36 FR 21544), as amended by a notice published April 25, 1973 (38 FR 10184), which was corrected May 8, 1973 (38 FR 11492).

(2) Any Federal Trade Commission policy or directive modifying or interpreting said Enforcement Policy, as amended.

(e) All other rules, regulations, orders, and determinations of the Federal Trade Commission under the Flammable Fabrics Act will continue in effect until modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or repealed by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
