
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1605 - INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND INQUIRIES PURSUANT TO THE FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Investigations, Inspections and Inquiries
###### ยง 1605.4 Orders for access.

(a) In the event an inspection pursuant to ยง 1605.2 herein is refused, in whole or in part, or prior to any such inspection, the Commission may issue an order requiring any person, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation to allow access to a duly-designated officer or employee of the Commission for the purpose of conducting an inspection. Such order will be issued by the Commission upon the demonstration by the staff of a justifiable need to gain access. Inspections conducted after service of an order for access shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures provided in ยง 1605.2.

(b) After issuance of an order for access, the staff may, upon request of the recipient of the order, agree to modify the order to limit its scope, impose conditions or extend the time for compliance. If an agreement cannot be voluntarily reached, the recipient of the order may file a motion to limit or quash the order. Any such motion shall set forth the reasons why the order should be limited or quashed; and may be accompanied by memoranda, affidavits, or other documents submitted in support of the motion. Unless a different period of time for filing a motion is specified in the order, the motion must be received in the Office of the Secretary of the Commission within ten calendar days after the order is mailed or delivered in person to such person, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation unless the Commission, upon a showing of good cause, grants an extension of time within which to file a motion to limit or quash an order of access.

(c) Upon receipt of a motion to limit or quash the order for access, the Office of the Secretary shall immediately notify and trasmit a copy of the motion to Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement or the General Counsel, as appropriate. Unless a different period of time is specified in the order, the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement or General Counsel shall file an answer with the Office of the Secretary within ten calendar days after receipt of a copy of the motion. A copy of the answer shall be served upon the moving party or the counsel of the moving party. No reply to the answer will be permitted.

(d) All motions to limit or quash shall be ruled upon by the Commission. The Office of the Secretary shall serve the decision on the motion to limit or quash the order of access upon the moving party or the counsel of the moving party and shall furnish a copy of the decision to the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement or the General Counsel, as appropriate. The decision on the motion to limit or quash shall be the final decision on the matter. Motions for reconsideration will not be received.
