
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1605 - INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND INQUIRIES PURSUANT TO THE FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Investigations, Inspections and Inquiries
###### ยง 1605.5 Subpoenas.

(a) The Commission may issue to any person, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation a subpoena requiring the production of documentary evidence (subpoena duces tecum) and/or the attendance and testimony of witnesses (subpoena ad testificandum) relating to any matter under investigation. The Commission hereby delegates to the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement, the Director of the Enforcement Division, the Solicitor, or the General Counsel, depending upon which officer is involved with the subpoena, the power to negotiate and approve the terms of satisfactory compliance with such subpoena.

(b) The person, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation upon whom a subpoena is served may file a motion to limit or quash the subpoena. Any such motion shall set forth the reasons why the subpoena should be quashed or limited and may be accompanied by memoranda, affidavits, or other documents submitted in support of the motion. Unless a different period of time for filing a motion is specified in the subpoena, the motion must be received in the Office of the Secretary of the Commission within ten calendar days after the subpoena is mailed or delivered to such person, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation unless the Commission, upon a showing of good cause, grants an extension of time within which to file a motion to limit or quash a subpoena.

(c) Upon receipt of any such motion, the Office of the Secretary shall immediately notify and transmit a copy of the motion to the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement or the General Counsel, as appropriate. Unless a different period of time is specified in the subpoena, the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement or the General Counsel shall file an answer with the Office of the Secretary within ten calendar days after receipt of a copy of the motion. A copy of the answer shall be served upon the moving party or the counsel of the moving party. No reply to the answer will be permitted.

(d) All motions to limit or quash a subpoena shall be ruled upon by the Commission. The Office of the Secretary shall serve the decision on the motion to limit or quash the subpoena upon the moving party or the counsel of the moving party and shall furnish a copy of the decision to the Associate Executive Director for Compliance and Enforcement or the General Counsel, as appropriate. The decision on the motion to limit or quash shall be the final decision on the matter. Motions for reconsideration will not be received.
