
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1605 - INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND INQUIRIES PURSUANT TO THE FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Investigations, Inspections and Inquiries
###### ยง 1605.6 Investigational hearings.

(a) The Commission may order, and by subpoena, may compel any person, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation to provide information at an investigational hearing. Such hearings shall be for the purpose of taking the testimony, under oath, of witnesses and receiving documents and other data relating to any subject under investigation. Such hearings shall be presided over by the commission, by one or more of its members, an Administrative Law Judge, hearing examiner, attorney-examiner or by a duly designated officer or employee. The hearings shall be stenographically reported, and a transcript thereof shall be made a part of the record.

(b) A Commissioner who participates in such a hearing or other investigation, inspection, or inquiry shall not be disqualified by reason of such participation from subsequently sharing in a Commission decision in the matter.

(c) All investigational hearings shall be closed to the public, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission.

(d) The release of the record of such hearing shall be governed by the Commission's regulations under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and/or other applicable laws or regulations.
