
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1605 - INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND INQUIRIES PURSUANT TO THE FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Investigations, Inspections and Inquiries
###### ยง 1605.7 Depositions.

(a) The Commission may order and, by subpoena, may compel testimony to be taken by deposition at any stage of any investigation. Such depositions may be taken before any person designated by the Commission who has the power to administer oaths. The testimony given shall be reduced to writing by the person taking the deposition or under such person's direction and shall then be submitted to the deponent for signature unless the deponent waives the right to sign the deposition. All depositions shall be closed to the public, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission. The release of the record of such depositions shall be governed by the Commission's regulations under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and/or other applicable laws or regulations.

(b) Any changes in form or substance which the deponent desires to make shall state the reasons for such changes. The deposition shall then be signed by the deponent, unless the deponent waives the right to sign, cannot be found, or is unable or refuses to sign. If the deposition is not signed by the deponent within 30 days of its submission to the deponent, or such shorter time as the Commission may designate, the Commission designee shall sign it and state on the record the fact of the waiver of the right to sign or of the illness or absence of the deponent, or the fact of the deponent's inability or refusal to sign together with the reason, if any, given therefor. The deposition referred to herein may be used in any investigation or any administrative or judical adjudicative proceeding.
