
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1605 - INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND INQUIRIES PURSUANT TO THE FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT
##### Subpart A - Procedures for Investigations, Inspections and Inquiries
###### § 1605.8 Rights of witnesses at investigational hearings and of deponents at depositions.

(a) Any person, or agent or officer of a sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation who is required to produce documentary evidence or give testimony as a witness at an investigational hearing conducted under provisions of § 1605.6 or as a deponent at a deposition taken in accordance with provisions of § 1605.7 may be accompanied by an attorney or an official or employee of the person, sole proprietorship, parnership, or corporation, who may act as counsel for the witness or the deponent. However, a person who is subpoenaed to produce documentary evidence or give testimony at an investigational hearing or deposition cannot act as counsel for another witness or deponent at the same proceeding. The term attorney refers to members of the bar of a Federal Court or the courts of any State or Territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. The witness or deponent and his or her counsel may act as follows during the course of an investigational hearing or deposition:

(1) A witness or deponent may confer, in confidence, with his or her counsel concerning any questions asked of the witness or deponent. If the witness or deponent or counsel objects to a question, the objection and basis thereof shall be stated on the record. In the case of an objection based upon the privilege against self incrimination, the privilege must be asserted by the witness or deponent. If a witness at an investigationl hearing refuses to answer a question or provide other information, the presiding officer shall have the authority to immediately order the witness or deponent to answer the question or provide the information requested, except in circumstances where an immediate ruling would be unwarranted and except where such refusal is based upon the privilege against self incrimination, which shall be handled in accordance with the procedure set forth in 18 U.S.C. 6002 and 6004. Otherwise, all objections shall be ruled upon by the presiding officer at the time the objection is made.

(2) Objections timely made under the provisions of § 1605.8(a) shall be noted on the record, shall be treated as continuing, and shall be preserved throughout the course of the proceeding without the necessity of repetition during similar lines of inquiry.

(3) Except as provided by this § 1605.8(a), counsel for a witness or a deponent may not interrupt the examination of the witness or the deponent by making objections or statements on the record.

(4) Upon completion of the examination of a witness or a deponent, the witness or deponent may clarify on the record any of his or her answers.

(b) Any such person, agent, or officer who is required to appear in person at an investigational hearing or at a deposition shall testify as to matters and information known and/or reasonably available to the person, sole proprietorship, parnership, or corporation involved.

(c) Any such person, agent, or officer who is compelled by subpoena to appear in person at an investigational hearing or at a deposition shall receive the same fees and mileage allowances as are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States.

(d) Any such person, agent, or officer who is required to appear in person at an investigational hearing or at a deposition shall be entitled to retain a copy of any document submitted by him or her and, upon payment of lawfully prescribed costs, shall be entitled to procure a copy of his or her own testimony as recorded.

(e) The Commission designee who presides at an investigational hearing or before whom a deposition is taken shall take all necessary action to regulate the course of the hearing or the deposition, to avoid delay and to assure that reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct are maintained. Such designee shall, for reasons stated on the record, immediately report to the Commission any instance in which counsel for a witness or a deponent has refused to comply with the designee's directions, or to adhere to reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct in the course of the hearing or the deposition. The Commission shall thereupon take such action as the circumstances warrant.
