
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1608 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE FLAMMABLE FABRICS ACT
##### ยง 1608.3 Continuing guaranties.

(a) Any person residing in the United States may file with the Office of the Secretary of the Consumer Product Safety Commission a continuing guaranty under section 8 of the act applicable to any product, fabric, or related material marketed or handled by such person. When filed with the Commission, a continuing guaranty shall be fully executed in duplicate and execution of each copy shall be acknowledged before a notary public. Forms for use in preparing continuing guaranties to be filed with the Commission will be supplied by the Office of the Secretary of the Commission upon request. To remain in effect, such guaranties must be renewed every 3 years and at such other times as any change occurs in the legal business status of the person filing the guaranty. It is therefore required that any person who has filed a continuing guaranty with the Commission shall promptly advise the Commission in writing of any change in the legal status of the guarantor or in the address of the guarantor's principal office and place of business. Representations contained in the prescribed form of continuing guaranty with respect to reasonable and representative tests may be based upon (1) a guaranty received and relied upon in good faith by the guarantor, (2) tests performed by or for a guarantor, or (3) class tests, where permitted under these rules.

(b) The following is the prescribed form of continuing guaranty for filing with the Commission:

(c) Any person who has a continuing guaranty on file with the Commission may, during the effective period of the guaranty, give notice of such fact by setting forth on the invoice or other paper covering the marketing or handling of the product, fabric, or related material guaranteed the following:

(d) Any person who falsely represents that he has a continuing guaranty on file with the Commission when such is not a fact, or who falsely represents that a limited continuing guaranty he does have on file with the Commission covers any product, fabric, or related material when such is not the case, shall be deemed to have furnished a false guaranty under section 8(b) of the act.

(e) Any seller residing in the United States may give a continuing guaranty under section 8 of the act to a buyer applicable to any product, fabric, or related material sold or to be sold to said buyer by seller. All such continuing guaranties shall be fully executed in duplicate and execution of each copy shall be acknowledged before a notary public. To remain in effect, such guaranties must be renewed every 3 years and at such other times as any change occurs in the legal business status of the person giving the guaranty. Representations contained in the prescribed form of continuing guaranty from seller to buyer with respect to reasonable and representative tests may be based upon: (1) A guaranty received and relied upon in good faith by the guarantor, (2) tests performed by or for a guarantor, or (3) class tests, where permitted under these rules.

(f) The following is the prescribed form of continuing guaranty from seller to buyer:
