
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1610 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CLOTHING TEXTILES
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1610.6 Test procedure.
####### Procedure for testing flammability.

(c)(1) The test chamber shall be located under the hood (or other suitable enclosure) with the fan turned off. Open the control valve in the fuel supply. Allow approximately 5 minutes for the air to be drawn from the fuel line, ignite the gas and adjust the test flame to a length of 16 mm (in), measured from its tip to the opening in the gas nozzle.

(2) Remove one mounted specimen from the desiccator at a time and place it in position on the specimen rack in the chamber of the apparatus. Thick fabrics may require adjustment of the specimen rack so that the tip of the indicator finger just touches the surface of the specimen.

(3) Adjust the position of the specimen rack of the flammability test chamber so that the tip of the indicator finger just touches the face of the mounted specimen.

(4) String the stop thread through the guides in the upper plate of the specimen holder across the top of the specimen, and through any other thread guide(s) of the chamber. Hook the stop weight in place close to and just below the stop weight thread guide. Set the timing mechanism to zero. Close the door of the flammability test chamber.

(5) Begin the test within 45 seconds of the time the specimen was removed from the desiccator. Activate the trigger device to impinge the test flame. The trigger device controls the impingement of the test flame onto the specimen and starts the timing device. The timing is automatic and stops when the weight is released by the severing of the stop thread.

(6) At the end of each test, turn on the hood fan to exhaust any fumes or smoke produced during the test.

(7) Record the burn time (reading of the timer) for each specimen, along with visual observation using the test result codes given in ยง 1610.8. If there is no burn time, record the visual observation using the test result codes. Please note for raised-fiber surface textile fabrics, specimens should be allowed to continue burning, even though a burn rate is measured, to determine if the base fabric will fuse.

(8) After exhausting all fumes and smoke produced during the test, turn off the fan before testing the next specimen.
