
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1610 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CLOTHING TEXTILES
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1610.7 Test sequence and classification criteria.
####### 4

() The average burn time is 4 through 7 seconds (both inclusive) with three or more base burns. The preliminary classification is Class 2, Intermediate Flammability, or

(v) If there is only one burn time out of the 10 specimens, the test is inconclusive. The fabric cannot be classified.

(4) Step 2, Raised Surface Textile Fabric After Refurbishing in accordance with ยง 1610.6(b).

(i) Determine the area to be most flammable in accordance with ยง 1610.6(a)(3)(i).

(ii) Prepare and test five specimens from the most flammable area. Burn times and visual observations determine whether to stop testing and determine the preliminary classification or to test five additional specimens.

(iii) Stop testing and assign the preliminary classification when:

(A) There are no burn times. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(B) There is only one burn time, and it is less than 4 seconds without a base burn; or it is 4 seconds or greater with or without a base burn. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(C) There are no base burns regardless of the burn time(s). The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(D) There are two or more burn times with an average burn time of 0 to 7 seconds with a surface flash only. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(E) There are two or more burn times with an average burn time greater than 7 seconds with any number of base burns. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(F) There are two or more burn times with an average burn time of 4 through 7 seconds (both inclusive) with no more than one base burn. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(G) There are two or more burn times with an average burn time less than 4 seconds with no more than one base burn. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(H) There are two or more burn times with an average burn time of 4 through 7 seconds (both inclusive) with two or more base burns. The preliminary classification is Class 2, Intermediate Flammability.

(iv) Test five additional specimens when the tests of the initial five specimens result in either of the following: There is only one burn time, and it is less than 4 seconds with a base burn; or the average of two or more burn times is less than 4 seconds with two or more base burns.

(v) If required, test five additional specimens from the most flammable area. The burn times and visual observations for the 10 specimens determine the preliminary classification when:

(A) The average burn time is less than 4 seconds with no more than two base burns. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(B) The average burn time is less than 4 seconds with three or more base burns. The preliminary and final classification is Class 3, Rapid and Intense Burning; or

(C) The average burn time is greater than 7 seconds. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(D) The average burn time is 4-7 seconds (both inclusive), with no more than two base burns. The preliminary classification is Class 1, Normal Flammability; or

(E) The average burn time is 4-7 seconds (both inclusive), with three or more base burns. The preliminary classification is Class 2, Intermediate Flammability; or

(vi) If there is only one burn time out of the 10 specimens, the test is inconclusive. The fabric cannot be classified.
