
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1610 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CLOTHING TEXTILES
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1610.38 Maintenance of records by those furnishing guaranties.

(a) Any person or firm issuing an initial guaranty of a product, fabric, or related material which is subject to the Standard for the Flammability of Clothing Textiles (the Standard, 16 CFR part 1610) shall keep and maintain a record of the test or tests relied upon to support that guaranty. The records to be maintained shall show:

(1) The style or range number, fiber composition, construction and finish type of each textile fabric or related material covered by an initial guaranty; or the identification, fiber composition, construction and finish type of each textile fabric (including those with a nitrocellulose fiber, finish or coating), and of each related material, used or contained in a product of wearing apparel covered by an initial guaranty.

(2) The results of the actual test or tests made of the textile fabric or related material covered by an initial guaranty; or of any fabric or related material used in the product of wearing apparel covered by an initial guaranty.

(3) When the person or firm issuing an initial guaranty has conducted the test or tests relied upon to support that guaranty, that person or firm shall also include with the information required by paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section, a sample of each fabric or related material which has been tested.

(b) Persons furnishing guaranties based upon class tests shall maintain records showing:

(1) Identification of the class test.

(2) Fiber composition, construction and finish type of the fabrics, or the fabrics used or contained in articles of wearing apparel so guaranteed.

(3) A swatch of each class of fabrics guaranteed.

(c) Persons furnishing guaranties based upon guaranties received by them shall maintain records showing the guaranty received and identification of the fabrics or fabrics contained in articles of wearing apparel guaranteed in turn by them.

(d) The records referred to in this section shall be preserved for a period of 3 years from the date the tests were performed, or in the case of paragraph (c) of this section from the date the guaranties were furnished.

(e) Any person furnishing a guaranty under section 8(a) of the Act who neglects or refuses to maintain and preserve the records prescribed in this section shall be deemed to have furnished a false guaranty under the provisions of section 8(b) of the Act.
