
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1610 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CLOTHING TEXTILES
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### § 1610.40 Use of alternate apparatus, procedures, or criteria for tests for guaranty purposes.

(a) Section 8(a) of the Act provides that no person shall be subject to criminal prosecution under section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1196) for a violation of section 3 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1192) if that person establishes a guaranty received in good faith which meets all requirements set forth in section 8 the Act. One of those requirements is that the guaranty must be based upon "reasonable and representative tests" in accordance with the applicable standard.

(b) Subpart A of this part 1610 prescribes apparatus and procedures for testing fabrics and garments subject to its provisions. See §§ 1610.5 & 1610.6. Subpart A prescribes criteria for classifying the flammability of fabrics and garments subject to its provisions as "Normal flammability, Class 1," "Intermediate flammability, Class 2," and "Rapid and Intense Burning, Class 3." See § 1610.4. Sections 3 and 4 of the Act prohibit the manufacture for sale, importation into the United States, or introduction in commerce of any fabric or article of wearing apparel subject to the Standard which exhibits "rapid and intense burning" when tested in accordance with the Standard. See 16 CFR part 1609.

(c) The Commission recognizes that for purposes of supporting guaranties, "reasonable and representative tests" could be either the test in subpart A of this part, or alternate tests which utilize apparatus or procedures other than those in subpart A of this part. This § 1610.40 sets forth conditions under which the Commission will allow use of alternate tests with apparatus or procedures other than those in subpart A of this part to serve as the basis for guaranties.

(d)(1) Persons and firms issuing guaranties that fabrics or garments subject to the Standard meet its requirements may base those guaranties on any alternate test utilizing apparatus or procedures other than those in subpart A of this part, if such alternate test is as stringent as, or more stringent than, the test in subpart A of this part. The Commission considers an alternate test to be "as stringent as, or more stringent than" the test in subpart A of this part if, when testing identical specimens, the alternate test yields failing results as often as, or more often than, the test in subpart A of this part. Any person using such an alternate test must have data or information to demonstrate that the alternate test is as stringent as, or more stringent than, the test in subpart A of this part.

(2) The data or information required by this paragraph (d) of this section to demonstrate equivalent or greater stringency of any alternate test using apparatus or procedures other than those in subpart A of this part must be in the possession of the person or firm desiring to use such alternate test before the alternate test may be used to support guaranties of items subject to the Standard.

(3) The data or information required by paragraph (d) of this section to demonstrate equivalent or greater stringency of any alternate test using apparatus or procedures other than those in subpart A of this part must be retained for as long as that alternate test is used to support guaranties of items subject to the Standard, and for one year thereafter.

(e) Specific approval from the Commission in advance of the use of any alternate test using apparatus or procedures other than those in Subpart A is not required. The Commission will not approve or disapprove any specific alternate test utilizing apparatus or procedures other than those in subpart A of this part.

(f) Use of any alternate test to support guaranties of items subject to the Standard without the information required by this section may result in violation of section 8(b), of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1197(b)), which prohibits the furnishing of a false guaranty.

(g) The Commission will test fabrics and garments subject to the Standard for compliance with the Standard using the apparatus and procedures set forth in subpart A of this part. The Commission will consider any failing results from compliance testing as evidence that:

(1) The manufacture for sale, importation into the United States, or introduction in commerce of the fabric or garment which yielded failing results was in violation of the Standard and of section 3 of the Act; and

(2) The person or firm using the alternate test as the basis for a guaranty has furnished a false guaranty, in violation of section 8(b) of the Act.
