
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 4 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES
##### ยง 4.11 Disclosure requests.
###### United States ex rel. Touhy,Ragen,

(4) Absent authorization from the General Counsel, the employee or former employee shall respectfully decline to produce requested material or to disclose requested information. The refusal should be based on this paragraph and onv.340 U.S. 462 (1951).

(5) The General Counsel will consider and act upon compulsory process and requests for voluntary testimony under this section with due regard for statutory restrictions, the Commission's rules and the public interest, taking into account such factors as the need to conserve the time of employees for conducting official business; the need to avoid spending the time and money of the United States for private purposes; the need to maintain impartiality between private litigants in cases where a substantial government interest is not involved; and the established legal standards for determining whether justification exists for the disclosure of confidential information and material.

(6) Invitations to testify before Congressional committees or subcommittees or to testify before other government bodies on the possible effects of legislative and regulatory proposals are not subject to paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(f) Requests by current or former employees to use nonpublic memoranda as writing samples shall be addressed to the General Counsel. The General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee is delegated the authority to dispose of such requests consistent with applicable nondisclosure provisions, including sections 6(f) and 21 of the FTC Act.

(g) Employees are encouraged to engage in teaching, lecturing, and writing that is not prohibited by law, Executive order, or regulation. However, an employee shall not use information obtained as a result of his Government employment, except to the extent that such information has been made available to the general public or will be made available on request, or when the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee gives written authorization for the use of nonpublic information on the basis that the use is in the public interest.

(h) The General Counsel (or General Counsel's designee) may authorize a Commission member, other Commission official, or Commission staff to disclose an item or category of information from Commission records not currently available to the public for routine inspection and copying under Rule 4.9(b) where the General Counsel (or General Counsel's designee) determines that such disclosure would facilitate the conduct of official agency business and would not otherwise be prohibited by applicable law, order, or regulation. Requests for such determinations shall be set forth in writing and, in the case of staff requests, shall be forwarded to the General Counsel (or General Counsel's designee) through the relevant Bureau. In unusual or difficult cases, the General Counsel may refer the request to the Commission for determination.
