
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1611 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF VINYL PLASTIC FILM
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1611.32 General requirements.

(a) No article of wearing apparel or fabric subject to the act and regulations shall be marketed or handled if such article or fabric, when tested according to the procedures prescribed in section 4(a) of the act, is so highly flammable to be dangerous when worn by individuals.

(b)(1) In the application of the requirements of ยง 1611.3 of the Standard to any item of film, coated fabric, or wearing apparel, compute the average burn rate from five specimens burned transverse to the direction of processing and the average burn rate from an additional five specimens burned lengthwise to the direction of processing. If either the average burn rate from the five specimens burned transverse or the average burn rate from the five specimen burned lengthwise exceeds 1.2 inches per second, the test results shall be interpreted as a failure.

(2) To compute the average burn rate for each set of five specimens, at least two of the specimens must ignite and burn the stop cord for the specimen. However, if fewer than two specimens of any given set of five specimens ignite and burn the stop cord for the specimen, the test results shall be interpreted according to provisions of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) If no specimen ignites and burns the stop cord, the test results of that set of specimens shall be regarded as passing.

(ii) If only one specimen of the set of five specimens ignites and burns the stop cord with passing results, the results of that set of specimens will be regarded as passing.

(iii) If only one specimen of the set of five specimens ignites and burns the stop cord with failing results, test another set of five specimens from the same direction of processing. Compute the average burn rate for all ten specimens in the same direction of processing. If two or more of the 10 specimens ignite and burn the stop cord, average the results from all 10 specimens which ignited and burned the stop cord. If only one of the 10 specimens ignites and burns the stop cord, the test is inconclusive. The Commission will take no enforcement action on the basis of that test. The Commission may conduct additional testing of the article of film, coated fabric, or wearing apparel, but the results of any inconclusive test shall not be averaged with results obtained from any other test.
