
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1611 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF VINYL PLASTIC FILM
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1611.37 Reasonable and representative tests under section 8 of the Act.
####### Plain surface textile fabrics weighing less than two ounces per square yard.

(2)(i) When, on the initial test of any plain surface textile fabric weighing less than two ounces per square yard, such fabric exhibits a burning time of 3.5 seconds or more, such test may suffice for any fabric of the same fiber composition, construction and finish type. This class of fabric shall be tested at least once at intervals of not more than three months thereafter while in production. If, after four consecutive interval production tests have been made, none of such test results show the flame spread to have been less than 4.5 seconds, no further tests of such class of fabric need be made.

(ii) When, on the initial test of any plain surface textile fabric weighing less than two ounces per square yard, none of the specimens ignite, such initial test may suffice for any fabric of the same fiber composition, construction and finish type.

(iii) When, on the initial test of any plain surface textile fabric weighing less than two ounces per square yard, such fabric ignites but the flame is extinguished before the stop cord is burned, such test may suffice for any fabric of the same fiber composition, construction and finish type. This class of fabric shall be tested at least once at intervals of not more than one year thereafter while in production.
