
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1611 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF VINYL PLASTIC FILM
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1611.37 Reasonable and representative tests under section 8 of the Act.
####### Certain raised fiber surface textile fabrics.

(3)(i) When a test of any raised fiber surface textile fabric which has a dense cut pile of uniform short length or looped yarns, does not exhibit a surface flash and does not ignite, such test shall suffice for any such fabric having a dense cut pile of the same length or the same looped yarns and of the same fiber composition, construction and finish type. Examples of the types of fabrics referred to are velvet, velveteens, velours, and corduroys.

(ii) One test of any raised fiber surface textile fabric, the raised fiber surface of which consists of not less than ninety percentum (90%) protein fiber, or one test of any fabric in a particular class of such fabrics, shall suffice for any such fabric or class of fabrics.

(iii) When, on the initial test of any raised surface textile fabric which has a surface composed of looped yarns, such fabric exhibits a burning time in excess of 12 seconds, such test may suffice for any such fabric having the same looped yarns and of the same fiber composition, construction and finish type. An example of the type of fabric referred to is "terry cloth".

(b) Raised fiber surface textile fabrics: When, on the initial test of a raised fiber surface textile fabric, such fabric:

(1)(i) Falls within Class 2 as provided in ยง 1610.3(a)(2)(i), the fabric shall be tested at least once at intervals of not more than one month while in production, or if the production exceeds 50,000 yards per month, the fabric shall be tested thereafter every 50,000 yards or fraction thereof.

(ii) If, after two such intervals, production tests have been made, the test results do not show the flame spread to have been less than 4 seconds, with the base fabric ignited or fused, the fabric shall be tested at least once at intervals of not more than three months while in production, or if the production exceeds 100,000 yards per three months, the fabric shall be tested thereafter every 100,000 yards or fraction thereof.

(2) Has a flame spread in excess of 7 seconds with the base fabric ignited or fused, the fabric shall be tested at least once at intervals of not more than six months thereafter while in production.

(3) Has a surface flash, but the base fabric does not ignite nor fuse, the fabric shall be tested at least once at intervals of not more than six months thereafter while in production.

(4) Does not have a surface flash and does not ignite, the initial test shall suffice.

(c) When, on initial test a film or a textile fabric with a nitro-cellulose fiber, finish or coating, does not exhibit a burning rate in excess of 1.2 inches per second, one test each year thereafter while in production shall be deemed reasonable and representative tests for such film or textile fabric.

(d) Reasonable and representative tests of fabrics and fabrics contained in articles of wearing apparel, subject to the act, produced prior to the effective date of the act, and which have not been tested under the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, shall be an initial test for each class of such fabrics, and such tests shall be applicable to all fabrics having the same fiber composition, construction and finish type.

(e) In the case of articles of wearing apparel which are not made from fabrics but directly from yarns, the fabrics contained in such articles of wearing apparel shall be tested by the testing requirements provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(f) Where fabrics or fabrics contained in articles of wearing apparel have not been tested when in production by the applicable testing requirements provided in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section, one test of each such fabrics shall be made every 10,000 yards or fraction thereof, or of the fabric contained in one of every 5,000 of such articles of wearing apparel or fraction thereof, and these shall be deemed reasonable and representative tests of such fabrics.

(g) In the case of textile fabrics or textile fabrics contained in articles of wearing apparel having an appliqued, overstitched, or embroidered type of design of a loop, pile, nap, or tufted construction, tests shall be conducted according to paragraph (b) of this section on each type of applique, overstitch, or embroidery.

(h) If tests of any textile fabric made subsequent to the initial test show a burning time of another category, then such fabric shall be tested thereafter under the testing requirements of such changed time.

(i) The application of this section, insofar as it relates to the testing of plain surface textile fabrics or such fabrics contained in articles of wearing apparel weighing two ounces or more per square yard, shall be limited to fabrics made of fibers in use or capable of being used as of May 31, 1954. Such fabrics weighing two ounces or more per square yard made in whole or in part of fibers developed and used subsequent to May 31, 1954, shall be tested in accordance with the testing requirements set out in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
