
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1615 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 0 THROUGH 6X (FF 3-71)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1615.4 Test procedure.
####### Specimens and sampling-General.

(b)(1) The test criteria of ยง 1615.3(b) shall be used in conjunction with the following fabric and garment sampling plan, or any other approved by the Consumer Product Safety Commission that provides at least the equivalent level of fire safety to the consumer. Alternate sampling plans submitted for approval shall have operating characteristics such that the probability of Unit acceptance at any percentage defective does not exceed the corresponding probability of Unit acceptance of the following sampling plan in the region of the latter's operating characteristic curves that lies between 5 and 95 percent acceptance probability.

(2) Different colors or different print patterns of the same fabric may be included in a single Fabric or Garment Production Unit, provided such colors or print patterns demonstrate char lengths that are not significantly different from each other as determined by previous testing of at least three samples from each color or print pattern to be included in the Unit.

(3) Garments with different trim and findings may be included in a single Garment Production Unit providing the other garment characteristics are identical except for size, color, and print pattern.

(4) For fabrics whose flammability characteristics are not dependent on chemical additives or chemical reactants to fiber, yarns, or fabrics, the laundering requirement of paragraph (g)(4) of this section is met on subsequent Fabric Production Units if results of testing an initial Fabric Production Unit demonstrate acceptability according to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, Normal Sampling, both before and after the appropriate laundering.

(5) If the fabric has been shown to meet the laundering requirement, paragraph (g)(4) of this section, the garments produced from that fabric are not required to be laundered.

(6) Each Sample (five specimens) for all Fabric Sampling shall be selected so that two specimens are in one fabric direction (machine or cross-machine) and three specimens are in the other fabric direction except for the additional Sample selected after a failure, in which case, all five specimens shall be selected in the same fabric direction in which the specimen failure occurred.

(7) Fabric Samples may be selected from fabric as outlined in paragraph (c) of this section entitled Fabric Sampling, or, for verification purposes, from randomly selected garments.

(8) Multilayer fabrics shall be tested with a hem of approximately 2.5 cm. (1 in.) sewn at the bottom edge of the specimen with a suitable thread and stitch. The specimen shall include each of the components over its entire length. Garments manufactured from multilayer fabrics shall be tested with the edge finish at the bottom edge of the specimen which is used in the garment.
