
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1615 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 0 THROUGH 6X (FF 3-71)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### § 1615.4 Test procedure.
####### Disposition of rejected Units.

(4)(i) The Piece or Pieces which have failed and resulted in the initial rejection of the Unit may not be retested, used, or promoted for use in children's sleepwear as defined in § 1615.1(a) except after reworking to improve the flammability characteristics and subsequent retesting in accordance with the procedures in Tightened Sampling.

(ii) The remainder of a rejected Unit, after removing the Piece or Pieces the failure of which resulted in Unit rejection, may be accepted if the following test plan is successfully concluded at all required locations. The required locations are those adjacent to each such failed Piece. (Required locations exist on both sides of the "Middle Piece" tested in Tightened Sampling if failure of that Piece resulted in Unit rejection.) Failure of a Piece shall be deemed to have resulted in Unit rejection if Unit rejection occurred and a Sample or specimen from the Piece failed any test criterion of § 1615.3(b).

(iii) The Unit should contain at least 15 Pieces for disposition testing after removing the failing Pieces. If necessary for this purpose, the Unit shall be demarcated into at least 15 approximately equal length Pieces unless such division results in Pieces shorter than 100 linear yards. In this latter case, the Unit shall be demarcated into roughly equal length Pieces of approximately 100 linear yards each. If such a division results in five Pieces or less in the Unit for each failing Piece after removing the failing Pieces, only the individual Piece retest procedure (described subsequently) may be used.

(iv) Select and cut a Sample from each end of each adjoining Piece beginning adjacent to the Piece which failed. Test the two Samples from the Piece. If both Samples meet all the test criteria of § 1615.3(b), the Piece is acceptable. If one or both of the two selected Samples fail the 17.8 cm. (7.0 in.) average char length criterion, § 1615.3(b)(1), the Piece is unacceptable. If two or more of the individual Specimens, from the 10 selected specimens, fail the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length § 1615.3(b)(2), the Piece is unacceptable. If only one individual specimen, from the 10 selected specimens, fails the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length, § 1615.3(b)(2), select five additional specimens from the same end of the Piece in which the failure occurred, all five to be taken in the fabric direction in which the specimen failure occurred. If this additional Sample passes all the test criteria, the Piece is acceptable. If this additional Sample fails any part of the test criteria, the Piece is unacceptable.

(v) Continue testing adjoining Pieces until a Piece has been found acceptable. Then continue testing adjoining Pieces until three successive adjoining Pieces, not including the first acceptable Piece, have been found acceptable or until five such Pieces not including the first acceptable Piece, have been tested, whichever occurs sooner. Unless three successive adjoining Pieces have been found acceptable among five such Pieces, testing shall be stopped and the entire Unit rejected without further testing. If three successive Pieces have been found acceptable among five such Pieces, accept the three successive acceptable Pieces and the remaining Pieces in the Unit.

(vi) Alternatively, individual Pieces from a rejected Unit containing three or more Pieces may be tested and accepted or rejected on a Piece-by-Piece basis according to the following plan, after removing the Piece or Pieces, the failure of which resulted in Unit rejection. Select four Samples (two from each end) from the Piece. Test the four selected Samples. If all four Samples meet all the Test Criteria of § 1615.3(b), accept the Piece. If one or more of the Samples fail the 17.8 cm. (7 in.) average char length criterion, § 1615.3(b)(1), reject the Piece. If two or more of the individual Specimens from the 20 selected specimens, fail the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length, § 1615.3(b)(1), reject the Piece. If only one individual specimen, from the 20 selected specimens, fails the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length, § 1615.3(b)(2), select two additional Samples from the same end of the Piece in which the failure occurred. If these additional two Samples meet all the Test Criteria of § 1615.3(b), accept the Piece. If one or both of the two additional Samples fail any part of the Test Criteria, reject the Piece.

(vii) The Pieces of a Unit rejected after retesting may not be retested, used, or promoted for use in children's sleepwear as defined in § 1615.1(a) except after reworking to improve the flammability characteristics, and subsequent retesting in accordance with the procedures set forth in Tightened Sampling.
