
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1615 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 0 THROUGH 6X (FF 3-71)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1615.4 Test procedure.
####### Testing,Burner adjustment.

(g)-(1)With the hood fan turned off, use the needle valve to adjust the flame height of the burner to 3.8 cm. (1in.) above the highest point of the barrel of the burner. A suitable height indicator is shown in Engineering Drawing No. 6 and Figure 1.

(2) Specimen Burning and Evaluation. (i) One at a time, the mounted specimens shall be removed from the desiccator and suspended in the cabinet for testing. The cabinet door shall be closed and the burner flame impinged on the bottom edge of the specimen for 3.0+/-0.2 seconds. Flame impingement is accomplished by moving the burner under the specimen for this length of time, and then removing it.

(ii) When afterglow has ceased, remove the specimen from the cabinet and holder, and place it on a clean flat surface. Fold the specimen lengthwise along a line through the highest peak of the charred or melted area; crease the specimen firmly by hand. Unfold the specimen and insert the hook with the correct weight as shown in table 1 in the specimen on one side of the charred area 6.4 mm. (in.) from the lower edge.

(iii) Tear the specimen by grasping the other lower corner of the fabric and gently raising the specimen and weight clear of the supporting surface.Measure the char length as the distance from the end of the tear to the edge of the specimen exposed to the flame. After testing each specimen, vent the hood and cabinet to remove the smoke and/or toxic gases.
