
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1615 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 0 THROUGH 6X (FF 3-71)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1615.4 Test procedure.
####### Laundering.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(4)(i) The procedures described in sections 1615.4(b) through (g) shall be carried out on finished items (as produced or after one washing and drying) and after they have been washed and dried 50 times in accordance with sections 8.2.2, 8.2.3, and 8.3.1(A) of AATCC Test Method 124-1996 "Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering," Technical Manual of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, vol. 73, 1997, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709. This document is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Items which do not withstand 50 launderings shall be tested at the end of their useful service life.

(ii) Washing shall be performed in accordance with sections 8.2.2 and 8.2.3 of AATCC Test Method 124-1996, using wash temperature V (60&#xB0; +/-3 &#xB0;C, 140&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;F) specified in Table II of that method, and the water level, agitator speed, washing time, spin speed and final spin cycle specified for "Normal/Cotton Sturdy" in Table III. A maximum washer load shall be 3.64 Kg (8 pounds) and may consist of any combination of test samples and dummy pieces. Drying shall be performed in accordance with section 8.3.1(A) of that test method, Tumble Dry, using the exhaust temperature (66&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C, 150&#xB0; +/-10 &#xB0;F) and cool down time of 10 minutes specified in the "Durable Press" conditions of Table IV. Alternatively, a different number of times under another washing and drying procedure may be specified and used, if that procedure has previously been found to be equivalent by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Such laundering is not required of items which are not intended to be laundered, as determined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

(iii) Items which are not susceptible to being laundered and are labeled "dry-clean only" shall be drycleaned by a procedure which has previously been found to be acceptable by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

(iv) For the purpose of the issuance of a guarantee under section 8 of the act, finished sleepwear garments to be tested according to paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section need not be laundered or drycleaned provided all fabrics used in making the garments (except trim) have been guaranteed by the fabric producer to be acceptable when tested according to paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
