
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 4 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES
##### § 4.13 Privacy Act rules.
###### Purpose and scope.

(a)(1) This section is promulgated to implement the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579, 5 U.S.C. 552a) by establishing procedures whereby an individual can, as to all systems of records maintained by the Commission except those set forth in § 4.13(m) as exempt from disclosure, (i) Request notification of whether the Commission maintains a record pertaining to him in any system of records, (ii) request access to such a record or to an accounting of its disclosure, (iii) request that the record be amended or corrected, and (iv) appeal an initial adverse determination of any such request. This section also establishes those systems of records that are specifically exempt from disclosure and from other requirements.

(2) The procedures of this section apply only to requests by an individual as defined in § 4.13(b). Except as otherwise provided, they govern only records containing personal information in systems of records for which notice has been published by the Commission in thepursuant to section 552a(e)(4) of the Privacy Act of 1974 and which are neither exempt from the provisions of this section nor contained in government-wide systems of personnel records for which notice has been published in theby the Office of Personnel Management. Requests for notification, access, and amendment of personnel records which are contained in a system of records for which notice has been given by the Office of Personnel Management are governed by the Office of Personnel Management's notices, 5 CFR part 297. Access to records which are not subject to the requirements of the Privacy Act are governed by §§ 4.8 through 4.11.
