
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1615 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 0 THROUGH 6X (FF 3-71)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1615.31 Labeling, recordkeeping, advertising, retail display and guaranties.
####### Labeling.

(b)(1) Where any agent or treatment is known to cause deterioration of flame resistance or otherwise enhances the flammability characteristics of an item, such item shall be prominently, permanently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with precautionary care and treatment instructions to protect the item from such agent or treatment: Provided:

(i) Where items required to be labeled in accordance with this paragraph are marketed at retail in packages, and the required label is not readily visible to the prospective purchaser, the packages must also be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the required information, and

(ii) Where items are required to be labeled in accordance with this paragraph, the precautionary care and treatment instructions may appear on the reverse side of the permanent label if

(A) The precautionary care and treatment instructions are legible, prominent and conspicuous, and

(B) The phrase "CARE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE" or the equivalent appears permanently, prominently, conspicuously, and legibly on the side of the permanent label that is visible to the prospective purchaser when the item is marketed at retail, and

(C) The item which is so labeled is marketed at retail in such a manner that the prospective purchaser is able to manipulate the label so the entire text of the precautionary care and treatment instructions is visible and legible; however, where the label cannot be manipulated so the instructions are visible to the prospective purchaser and legible, the packages must also be prominently, conspicuously and legibly labeled with the required precautionary care and treatment information or such information must appear prominently, conspicuously and legibly on a hang tag attached to the item.

(2) If the item has been initially tested under ยง 1615.4(g)(4) of the Standard after one washing and drying, it shall be prominently, permanently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with instructions to wash before wearing.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) Where any fabric or related material intended or promoted for use in children's sleepwear is sold or intended for sale to the ultimate consumer for the purpose of conversion into children's sleepwear, each bolt, roll, or other unit shall be labeled with the information required by this section. Each item of fabric or related material sold to an ultimate consumer must be accompanied by a label, as prescribed by this section, that can by normal household methods be permanently affixed by the ultimate consumer to any item of children's sleepwear made from such fabric or related material.

(5) Where items required to be labeled in accordance with paragraphs (b) (2), (3), and (4) of this section are marketed at retail in packages, and the required label is not readily visible to prospective purchasers, the packages must also be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the required information.

(6) Samples, swatches, or specimens used to promote or effect the sale of items subject to the Standard shall be labeled in accordance with this section with the information required by this section, except that such information may appear on accompanying promotional materials attached to fabric samples, swatches, or specimens used to promote the sale of fabrics to garment manufacturers. This paragraph (b)(6) of this section shall not apply, however, to samples, swatches, or specimens prominently, permanently, conspicuously, truthfully, and legibly labeled with the statement "Flammable. Sample only. Not for use or resale. Does not meet Standard for the Flammability of Children's Sleepwear, DOC FF 3-71."

(7) The information required on labels by this section shall be set forth separately from any other information appearing on the same label. Other information, representations, or disclosures not required by this action but placed on the same label with information required by this section, or placed on other labels elsewhere on the item, shall not interfere with the information required by this section. No person, other than the ultimate consumer, shall remove or mutilate, or cause or participate in the removal or mutilation of, any label required by this section to be affixed to any item.

(8) Every manufacturer, importer, or other person (such as a converter) initially introducing items subject to the Standard into commerce shall assign to each item a unit identification (number, letter or date, or combination, thereof) sufficient to identify and relate to the fabric production unit or garment production unit of which the item is a part. Such unit identification shall be designated in such a way as to indicate that it is a production unit identification under the Standard. The letters "GPU" and "FPU" may be used to designate a garment production unit identification and fabric production unit identification respectively, at the option of the labeler.

(i) Where fabrics required to be labeled or stamped in accordance with this section are marketed at retail in packages and the required label or stamp is not readily visible to the prospective purchaser, the packages must also be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the information required by this section.

(ii) Where garments required to be labeled or stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(8) of this section are marketed at retail in packages and the required label or stamp is not readily visible to the prospective purchasers:

(A) The packages must also be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the information required by this section; or

(B) There must be a garment style identification that is prominent, conspicuous, and legible and readily visible to the prospective purchaser, either on a label or hang tag attached to the garments or on the garment packages. A style is a garment design or grouping, preselected by the manufacturer. A style may be composed of garments that form all or part of one or more GPU's and the style may include any number of garments the manufacturer chooses. Style identification means any numbers, letters, or combination thereof that are sufficient to identify the garments of the style and may include information such as color, season or size. If this option B is selected, in any recall of noncomplying items from a particular GPU:
