
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### § 1616.4 Sampling and acceptance procedures.
####### Tightened sampling.

(3)Tightened sampling shall be used when a unit is rejected under the Normal Sampling Plan. The Tightened Sampling shall be the same as Normal Sampling except that one additional sample shall be selected and cut from a middle piece in the unit. If the unit is made up of less than two pieces, the unit shall be divided into at least two pieces. The division shall be such that the pieces produced by the division shall not be smaller than 92 linear m. (100 linear yds.) or greater than 2,300 linear m. (2,500 linear yds.). If the unit is made up of two pieces, the additional sample shall be selected from the interior end of one of the pieces. Test the three selected samples. If all three selected samples meet all the test criteria of § 1616.3(b), accept the unit. If one or more of the three selected samples fail the 17.8 cm. (7.0 in.) average char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(1), reject the unit. If two or more of the individual specimens, from the 15 selected specimens, fail the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(2), reject the unit. If only one individual specimen, from the 15 selected specimens, fails the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(2), select five additional specimens from the same end of the same piece in which the failure occurred, all five to be taken in the fabric direction in which the specimen failure occurred. If this additional sample passes all the test criteria, accept the unit. If this additional sample fails any part of the test criteria, reject the unit. Tightened Sampling may be discontinued and Normal Sampling resumed after five consecutive units have all been accepted using Tightened Sampling. If Tightened Sampling remains in effect for 15 consecutive units, production of the specific fabric in Tightened Sampling must be discontinued until that part of the process or component which is causing failure has been identified and the quality of the end product has been improved.
