
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### § 1616.4 Sampling and acceptance procedures.
####### Seams.

(i)Make three samples (15 specimens) using the longest seam type and three samples using each other seam type 10 inches or longer that is to be included in the garment. For purposes of recordkeeping, prior to testing, assign each specimen to one of the three samples. Test each set of three samples and accept or reject each seam design in accordance with the following plan:

(A) If all three samples meet all the test criteria of § 1616.3(b), accept the seam design. If one or more of the three samples fail the 17.8 cm. (7.0 in.) average char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(1), reject the seam design. If three or more of the individual specimens from the 15 selected specimens fail the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(2), reject the seam design. If only one of the individual specimens from the 15 selected specimens fails the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(2), accept the seam design.

(B) If two of the individual specimens; from the 15 selected specimens, fail the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(2), select three more samples (15 specimens) and retest. If all three additional samples meet all the test criteria of § 1616.3(b), accept the seam design. If one or more of the three additional samples fail the 17.8 cm. (7.0 in.) average char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(1), reject the seam design. If two or more of the individual specimens, from the 15 selected additional specimens, fail the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(2), reject the seam design. If only one of the individual specimens, from the 15 selected additional specimens, fails the 25.4 cm. (10 in.) char length criterion, § 1616.3(b)(2), accept the seam design.
