
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1616.4 Sampling and acceptance procedures.
####### Trim.

(ii)(A) Make three samples (15 specimens) from each type of trim to be included in the garment. For trim used only in a horizontal configuration on the garment, specimens shall be prepared by sewing or attaching the trim horizontally to the bottom edge of an appropriate section of untrimmed fabric. Sleeve and necking trim may not be tested in this manner. Where more than one row of trim is used on the garment, specimens shall be prepared with the same configuration (same number of rows and spacing between rows up to the limit of the specimen size) as the garment. For trim used in other than a horizontal configuration, specimens shall be prepared by sewing or attaching the trim to the center of the vertical axis of an appropriate section of untrimmed fabric, beginning the sewing or attachment at the lower edge of each specimen. For either configuration, the sewing or attachment shall be made in the manner in which the trim is attached in the garment.

(B) Sewing or otherwise attaching the trim shall be done with thread or fastening material of the same composition and size to be used for this purpose in the garment and using the same stitching or seamtype. Trim used in the horizontal configuration shall be sewn or fastened the entire width (smaller dimension) of the specimen. Trim used in other than the horizontal configuration shall be sewn or fastened the entire length (longer dimension) of the specimen. Prior to testing, assign each specimen to one of the three samples. Test the sets of three samples and accept or reject the type of trim and design on the same basis as seam design. A type of trim and design accepted when tested in a vertical configuration, may be used in a horizontal configuration without further testing.
