
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1616.5 Test procedure.
####### Specimen burning and evaluation.

(2)(i) One at a time, the mounted specimens shall be removed from the desiccator and suspended in the cabinet for testing. The cabinet door shall be closed and the burner flame impinged on the bottom edge of the specimen for 3.0+/-0.2 seconds.Flame impingement is accomplished by moving the burner under the specimen for this length of time, and then removing it.

(ii) When flaming has ceased, remove the specimen from the cabinet, except for specimens which exhibit afterglow. If afterglow is evident, the specimen shall be removed from the cabinet 1 minute after the burner flame is impinged on the specimen if no flaming exists at that time. Upon removal from the cabinet, the afterglow shall be promptly extinguished. The afterglow shall be extinguished by placing the specimen while still in the specimen holder on the bottom extinguishing plate and immediately covering it with the top plate until all evidence of afterglow has ceased. After removing the specimen from the cabinet and, if appropriate, extinguishing afterglow, remove it from the holder and place it on a flat clean surface. Fold the specimen lengthwise along a line through the highest peak of the charred or melted area; crease the specimen firmly by hand. Unfold the specimen and insert the hook with the correct weight as shown in table 1 in the specimen on one side of the charred area 6.4 mm. (in.) from the lower edge. Tear the specimen by grasping the other lower corner of the fabric and gently raising the specimen and weight clear of the supporting surface.Measure the char length as the distance from the end of the tear to the original lower edge of the specimen exposed to the flame. After testing each specimen, vent the hood and cabinet to remove the smoke and/or toxic gases.
