
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1616.31 Labeling, recordkeeping, retail display and guaranties.
####### 2

() Within 48 hours of a written request, the garment manufacturer must supply to the Commission any samples in its possession of garments from the GPU, as requested. As required of all persons subject to this section, the garment manufacturer must also, within the time requested, supply to the Commission the names of any customers who purchased during a specified period of time, garments from the GPU (or the style(s) of which the GPU is a part) and supply access to all records required under the Standard and this section.

(5) Samples, swatches, or specimens used to promote or effect the sale of items subject to the Standard shall be labeled in accordance with this section with the information required by this section: Except that such information may appear on accompanying promotional materials attached to fabric samples, swatches or specimens used to promote the sale of fabrics to garment manufacturers. This requirement shall not apply, however, to samples, swatches, or specimens prominently, permanently, conspicuously, truthfully and legibly labeled: "Flammable, Sample only. Not for use or resale. Does not meet Standard for the Flammability of Children's Sleepwear; Sizes 7 through 14 (FF 5-74)."

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Every manufacturer, importer, or other person (such as a converter) initially introducing items subject to the Standard into commerce shall assign to each item a unit identification (number, letter or date, or combination thereof) sufficient to identify and relate to the fabric production unit or garment production unit of which the item is a part. Such unit identification shall be designated in such a way as to indicate that it is a production unit under the Standard. The letters "GPU" and "FPU" may be used to designate a garment production unit identification and fabric production unit identification, respectively, at the option of the labeler. In addition to the requirements prescribed by this paragraph (b)(7), the requirements prescribed by paragraph (b)(4) of this section must be met for items marketed at retail in packages.

(i) Each garment subject to the Standard shall bear a label with minimum dimension of 1.3 centimeters (0.5 inch) by 1.9 centimeters (0.75 inch) containing the appropriate garment production unit identification for that garment in letters which are clear, conspicuous, and legible, and in a color which contrasts with the background of the label, or shall have such information stamped on the garment itself in letters which are clear, conspicuous, and legible, and in a color which contrasts with the background, and at least 2.54 centimeters (1 inch) in every direction from any other information. The stamp or label containing the garment production unit identification must be of such construction, and affixed to the garment in such a manner, as to remain on or attached to the garment, and legible and visible throughout its intended period of use.

(ii) The fabric production unit identification shall appear in letters at least 0.4 centimeter (one-sixth of an inch) in height against a contrasting background on each label that relates to such fabric and is required by the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act (15 U.S.C. 70-70k) and the regulations thereunder (16 CFR 303.1 through 303.45) or by the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 68-68j) and the regulations thereunder (16 CFR 300.1 through 300.35). When the information required by the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act or by the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 appears on an invoice used in lieu of labeling, the fabric production unit identification required by this section may be placed clearly, conspicuously, and legibly on the same invoice in lieu of labeling.

(8) All items complying with the Standard and manufactured on or after May 1, 1975, through May 1, 1978, shall bear a label which states "Flame-resistant. U.S. Standard FF 5-74." The label must be prominent, conspicuous, and legible and readily visible at the point of sale to ultimate consumers. The label statement may be attached to the item itself, on a hang tag attached to the item, or on a package enclosing the item. The label need not be affixed permanently. The letters of the label must be at least 0.4 centimeter (one-sixth of an inch) in height and in a color which contrasts with the background of the label.

(c) [Reserved]
