
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1616.31 Labeling, recordkeeping, retail display and guaranties.
####### Records-manufacturers, importers, or other persons initially introducing items into commerce,General.

(d)-(1)Every manufacturer, importer, or other person (such as a converter) initially introducing into commerce items subject to the Standard, irrespective of whether guaranties are issued under paragraph (e) of this section, shall maintain written and physical records as hereinafter specified. The records required must establish a line of continuity through the process of manufacture of each production unit of articles of children's sleepwear, or fabrics or related materials intended or promoted for use in children's sleepwear, to the sale and delivery of the finished items and from the specific finished item to the manufacturing records. Such records shall show with respect to such items:

(i) Details, description and identification of any and all sampling plans engaged in pursuant to the requirements of the Standard. Such records must be sufficient to demonstrate compliance with such sampling plan(s) and must relate the sampling plan(s) to the actual items produced, marketed, or handled. This requirement is not limited by other provisions of this paragraph (d).

(ii) Garment production units or fabric production units of all garments or fabrics marketed or handled. The records must relate to an appropriate production unit identification on or affixed to the item itself in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section, and the production unit identification must relate to the garment production unit or fabric production unit.

(iii) Test results and details of all tests performed, both prototype and production, including char lengths of each specimen tested, average char lengths of the samples required to be tested, details of the sampling procedure employed, name and signature of person conducting tests, date of tests, and all other records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the test procedures and sampling plan specified by the Standard or authorized alternate sampling plan.

(iv) Disposition of all failing or rejected items. Such records must demonstrate that the items were retested or reworked and retested in accordance with the Standard prior to sale or distribution and that such retested or reworked and retested items comply with the Standard, or otherwise show the disposition of such items.

(v) Fiber content and manufacturing specifications relating the same to prototype and production testing and to the production units to which applicable.

(vi) Data and test results relied on as a basis for inclusion of different colors or different print patterns of the same fabric as a single fabric or garment production unit under ยง 1616.4(a)(2) of the Standard.

(vii) Data and test results relied on as a basis for reduced laundering of fabric or garments during test procedures under ยง 1616.5(c)(4) of the Standard and any quantities issued or received relating to laundering as well as details of the laundering procedure utilized.

(viii) Identification, composition, and details of application of any flame retardant treatments employed. All prototype and production records shall relate to such information.

(ix) Date and quantity of each sale or delivery of items subject to the Standard (except the date of sale to an ultimate consumer) and the name and address of the purchaser or recipient (except an ultimate consumer). The items involved in each sale or delivery shall be identified by production unit or by style. A style is a garment design or grouping, preselected by the manufacturer. A style may be composed of garments that form all or part of one or more garment production units and the style may include any number of garments the manufacturer chooses. If a person subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section maintains sales records which identify the items sold or delivered by style, and if recall of one or more production units subject to the Standard is required, that person in recalling such production units shall notify all purchasers of items of the style in which such production unit or units were manufactured. Retailers may elect to return all items of the style involved, or all items of the production units subject to recall.
