
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1616.32 Method for establishment and use of alternate laundering procedures under section 5(c)(4)(ii) of the standard.
####### Application procedure.

(b)(1) Applicants seeking approval for use of an alternate laundering procedure under ยง 1616.5(c)(4)(ii) of the standard must submit the following information in writing to the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207:

(i) A detailed description of the proposed alternate laundering procedure, and a 6 in. by 6 in. swatch of the fabric or garment for which the procedure is proposed,

(ii) Upon request of the Commission staff, any other information concerning the procedure and/or any machine used in connection with it,

(iii) With regard to each fabric or garment for which an alternate laundering procedure is sought, test data comparing twenty test specimens washed and dried by the proposed alternate laundering procedure and twenty specimens tested in accordance with the 50-wash and dry cycle procedure required in section 5(c)(4)(ii) of the standard. (For purposes of applications, similar fabrics or garments of different finishes shall be considered as different fabrics or garments and therefore separate test results must be submitted). Each group of twenty specimens upon which these data are based must be cut for testing, half in the machine direction and half in the cross machine direction. Where the applicant manufactures the fabric or garments in more than one plant, the data described in this paragraph must be submitted separately for the fabric or garments of each plant for which the proposed alternate laundering procedure is intended to be used. Subsequent applications for use of the same procedure for additional fabrics and garments may incorporate portions of the original application by reference, as appropriate.

(2) Applications shall be certified by the chief executive officer of the applicant or the official to whom the duty to certify has been delegated in writing. The Commission's Assistant Executive Director for Compliance must be notified in writing of any such delegation.
