
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1616.32 Method for establishment and use of alternate laundering procedures under section 5(c)(4)(ii) of the standard.
####### Use of alternate laundering procedure.

(c)(1) The applicant may begin to use the alternate laundering procedure 30 days after the application is received by the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance unless notified to the contrary. The Assistant Executive Director for Compliance will normally furnish an applicant with written notice of approval within 30 days. The applicant may be notified that a longer time is needed for evaluation of the application, and in the discretion of the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, may be authorized to use the alternate laundering procedure pending the final decision. The notice of approval shall be kept by the applicant with other written records required to be maintained in connection with the use of an alternate laundering procedure. So that the applicants may ascertain that the application has been received when the 30-day period has elapsed, it is suggested that applications be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested.

(2) As provided in detail in ยง 1616.32(e), applicants must immediately discontinue use of an alternate procedure, and must immediately notify the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance if there are test failures during revalidation testing.
