
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1616 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CHILDREN'S SLEEPWEAR: SIZES 7 THROUGH 14 (FF 5-74)
##### Subpart C - Interpretations and Policies
###### ยง 1616.65 Policy scope of the standard.
####### Sleepwear garments.

(2)Whether a product of wearing apparel is "intended to be worn primarily for sleeping or activities related to sleeping" depends on the facts and circumstances present in each case. Relevant factors include:

(i) The nature of the product and its suitability for use by children for sleeping or activities related to sleeping;

(ii) The manner in which the product is distributed and promoted; and

(iii) The likelihood that the product will be used by children primarily for sleeping or activities related to sleeping in a substantial number of cases.

(3) The factors set forth in this policy statement are guidelines only, and are not elements of the definition of the term "children's sleepwear" in ยง 1616.2(a) of the Standard. For this reason, a particular fabric or garment may meet the definition of "children's sleepwear" set forth in the Standard, even though all factors listed in this policy statement are not present.

(d) Retailers, distributors, and wholesalers, as well as manufacturers, importers, and other persons (such as converters) introducing a fabric or garment into commerce which does not meet the requirements of the flammability standards for children's sleepwear, have an obligation not to promote or sell such fabric or garment for use as an item of children's sleepwear. Also, retailers, distributors, and wholesalers are advised not to advertise, promote, or sell as an item of children's sleepwear any item which a manufacturer, importer, or other person (such as a converter) introducing the item into commerce has indicated by label, invoice, or, otherwise, does not meet the requirements of the children's sleepwear flammability standards and is not intended or suitable for use as sleepwear. "Tight-fitting" garments as defined by ยง 1616.2(m) are exempt from the standard which requires flame resistance. They may be marketed as sleepwear for purposes of this section. Additionally, retailers are advised:

(1) To segregate, by placement in different parts of a department or store, fabrics and garments covered by the children's sleepwear standards from all fabrics and garments that are beyond the scope of the children's sleepwear standards but which resemble items of children's sleepwear.

(2) To utilize store display sign indicating the distinction between types of fabrics and garments, for example by indicating which are sleepwear items and which are not; and

(3) To avoid the advertisement or promotion of a fabric or garment that does not comply with the children's sleepwear flammability standards in a manner that may cause the item to be viewed by the consumer as an item of children's sleepwear.
