
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 4 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES
##### ยง 4.13 Privacy Act rules.
###### Specific exemptions.

(m)(1) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), investigatory materials maintained by an agency component in connection with any activity relating to criminal law enforcement in the following systems of records are exempt from all subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a, except (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), and (11), and (i), and from the provisions of this section, except as otherwise provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2):

(i) I-7-Office of Inspector General Investigative Files-FTC.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), investigatory materials compiled for law enforcement purposes in the following systems of records are exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a, and from the provisions of this section, except as otherwise provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2):

(i) I-1-Nonpublic Investigational and Other Nonpublic Legal Program Records-FTC.

(ii) I-2-Disciplinary Action Investigatory Files-FTC.

(iii) I-4-Clearance Application and Response Files-FTC.

(iv) I-5-Matter Management System-FTC.

(v) I-7-Office of Inspector General Investigative Files-FTC.

(vi) I-8-Stenographic Reporting Services Request System-FTC.

(vii) II-3-Worker's Compensation-FTC.

(viii) II-6-Discrimination Complaint System-FTC.

(ix) IV-1-Consumer Information System-FTC.

(x) V-1-Freedom of Information Act Requests and Appeals-FTC.

(xi) V-2-Privacy Act Requests and Appeals-FTC.

(xii) VII-6-Document Management and Retrieval System-FTC.

(3) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), investigatory materials compiled to determine suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information, but only where disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source of information, in the following systems of records are exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a, and from the provisions of this section, except as otherwise provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5):

(i) II-4-Employment Application-Related Records-FTC.

(ii) II-11-Personnel Security, Identity Management and Access Control Records System-FTC.
