
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1630 - STANDARD FOR THE SURFACE FLAMMABILITY OF CARPETS AND RUGS (FF 1-70)
##### Subpart C - Washing Procedures
###### ยง 1630.62 Wool flokati carpets and rugs - alternative washing procedure.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The Standard for the Surface Flammability of Carpets and Rugs (FF 1-70) at ยง 1630.4(b)(1)(ii) provides that if a carpet or rug has had a fire-retardant treatment, or is made of fibers which have had a fire-retardant treatment, the sample or oversized specimens thereof selected for testing under the standard shall be washed prior to the cutting of test specimens either 10 times under the washing and drying procedure prescribed in Method 124-1996 of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists or such number of times under such other washing and drying procedure as shall previously have been found to be equivalent by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. AATCC Test Method 124-1996 "Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering," is found in Technical Manual of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, vol. 73, 1997, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709. This document is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Alternatively the selected sample or oversized specimens thereof may be washed, dry-cleaned, or shampooed 10 times, prior to the cutting of test specimens, in such manner as the manufacturer or other interested party has previously established to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission is normally used for that type of carpet or rug in service.

(b) On September 7, 1972 (37 FR 18122) the Federal Trade Commission published in thea notice of approval of an alternative washing procedure under FF 1-70 for testing the flammability of wool flokati carpets and rugs. This approval is continued in effect by the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 30(e) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2079(e)).

(c) Any wool flokati carpet or rug for which such alternative procedure is utilized must be labeled with a conspicuous, legible and permanent label containing the following statement:

(d) The alternative procedure is as follows:

(1) Cut test specimens to an oversize of 12&#x2033; x 12&#x2033; before the procedure is initiated.

(2) Vacuum specimens or shake vigorously to remove any loose fibers, dust or possible accumulated debris.

(3) Place individual specimen face down in a shallow pan which has been filled to a depth of 2&#x2033; with a wash solution of 1.1 grams of AATCC (American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists) Standard Detergent as specified in AATCC Method 124-1996 (or equivalent) per liter of water preheated to 105 &#xB0;F. Knead the back of the specimen with hand for 1 minute. Water level and temperature should be maintained for each specimen.

(4) Thoroughly rinse specimen face down with warm water at 105 &#xB0;F. for 1 minute under a faucet with strong pressure.

(5) Remove excess liquor by use of a wringer, hydroextractor or gentle hand squeezing and dry in circulating air oven at 200 &#xB0;F. until dry.

(6) Repeat the above procedure 10 times using fresh detergent and fresh water for each set of eight specimens.

(7) Subject the dry specimens to the test procedures in FF 1-70.

(e) This washing procedure and labeling provisions are subject to revocation should it be determined that such procedure is inadequate to fully protect the public.
