
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1631 - STANDARD FOR THE SURFACE FLAMMABILITY OF SMALL CARPETS AND RUGS (FF 2-70)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1631.4 Test procedure.
####### Sampling,Selection of samples.

(b)-(1)(i) Select a sample of the material representative of the lot and large enough to permit cutting eight test specimens 22.86 x 22.86 cm. (9 x 9 in.) free from creases, fold marks, delaminations or other distortions. The representative sample of material may require the use of more than one small carpet or rug. The test specimens should contain the most flammable parts of the traffic surface at their centers. The most flammable area may be determined on the basis of experience or through pretesting.

(ii) If the carpet or rug has had a fire-retardant treatment, or is made of fibers which have had a fire-retardant treatment, the selected sample or over-sized specimens thereof shall be washed, prior to cutting of test specimens after they have been washed and dried either 10 times in accordance with sections 8.2.2, 8.2.3, and 8.3.1(A) of AATCC Test Method 124-1996 "Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering," using wash temperature V (60&#xB0; +/-3 &#xB0;C, 140&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;F) specified in Table II of that method, and the water level, agitator speed, washing time, spin speed and final spin cycle specified for "Normal/Cotton Sturdy" in Table III, and drying shall be performed in accordance with section 8.3.1(A) of that test method, Tumble Dry, maximum load 3.64 Kg (8 pounds), using the exhaust temperature (66&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C, 150&#xB0; +/-10 &#xB0;F) and cool down time of 10 minutes specified in the "Durable Press" conditions of Table IV; or such number of times by another washing and drying procedure which the Consumer Product Safety Commission has determined to be equivalent of AATCC Test Method 124-1996. Alternatively, the selected sample or oversized specimens thereof may be washed, drycleaned, or shampooed 10 times, prior to cutting of test specimens, in such manner as the manufacturer or other interested party shall previously have established to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission is normally used for that type of carpet or rug in service.
