
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1631 - STANDARD FOR THE SURFACE FLAMMABILITY OF SMALL CARPETS AND RUGS (FF 2-70)
##### Subpart C - Washing Procedures
###### ยง 1631.61 Hide carpets and rugs - alternative washing procedure.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The Standard for the Surface Flammability of Carpets and Rugs (FF 1-70) at ยง 1630.4(b)(1)(ii) provides that if a carpet or rug has had a fire-retardant treatment, or is made of fibers which have had a fire-retardant treatment, the sample or oversized specimens thereof selected for testing under the standard shall be washed prior to the cutting of test specimens either 10 times under the washing and drying procedure prescribed in Method 124-1996 of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists or such number of times under such other washing and drying procedure as shall previously have been found to be equivalent by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. AATCC Test Method 124-1996 "Appearance of Fabrics after Repeated Home Laundering," is found in Technical Manual of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, vol. 73, 1997, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709. This document is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Alternatively the selected sample or oversized specimens thereof may be washed, dry-cleaned, or shampooed 10 times, prior to the cutting of test specimens, in such manner as the manufacturer or other interested party has previously established to the satisfaction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission is normally used for that type of carpet or rug in service.

(b) On February 10, 1972 (37 FR 3010) the Federal Trade Commission published in thea notice of approval of an alternative washing procedure under FF 2-70 for testing the flammability of shearling and hide rugs that (1) consist of natural wool or hair attached to the hide with no synthetic fibers and (2) have been treated with a fire-retardant finish. The notice of approval was corrected on March 17, 1972 (37 FR 5676). This approval is continued in effect by the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 30(e) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2079(e)).

(c) Any hide carpet or rug for which such alternative procedure is utilized must be labeled with a conspicuous, legible and permanent label containing the following statement:

(d) The alternative procedure is as follows: The test specimens shall be cut to size 9&#x2033; x 9&#x2033; before the procedure is initiated.

(1) Shake specimen vigorously to remove any loose fibers, dust and possible accumulated debris.

(2) Place specimen on a solid flat surface and anchor or hold firmly while conducting the test.

(3) Select an operating applicator consisting of a rod at least 2&#x2033; in diameter and 9&#x2033; long composed of nonabsorbent material such as glass or plastic.

(4) Select sufficient cloth to form at least five layers when wrapped around the operating applicator. The cloth shall be of the type known as "Crockmeter Test Cloth" as specified in Note 8.3 of AATCC Test Method 8-1969.

(5) Immerse cloth in water (100 &#xB0;F.) until thoroughly wetted.

(6) Manually wring out the cloth to remove all excess water and wrap around the operating applicator.

(7) Immediately, with light pressure, stroke entire surface of specimen with the wrapped operating applicator in one direction only along the natural "lay" of the hair structure for ten complete strokes.

(8) Place test specimen in a circulating drying oven maintained at 212 &#xB0;F. until dry.

(9) Repeat the above procedure 10 times using a fresh or clean cloth each time.

(10) After 10 successive cycles of washing and drying the dried specimens shall be subjected to the testing procedures (pill test) as outlined in FF 2-70.

(e) This washing procedure and labeling provision are subject to revision or revocation should it be determined that such procedure is inadequate to fully protect the public.
