
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 4 - MISCELLANEOUS RULES
##### ยง 4.15 Commission meetings.
###### Closed meetings.

(c)(1) Whenever the Commission votes to close a meeting or series of meetings under these rules, it shall make publicly available within one day notices both of such vote and the General Counsel's determination regarding certification under 5 U.S.C. 552b(f)(1). Such determination by the General Counsel shall be made prior to the Commission vote to close a meeting or series of meetings. Further, except with respect to meetings closed under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Commission shall make publicly available within one day a full written explanation of its action in closing any meeting, and a list specifying the names and affiliations of all persons expected to attend, except Commission employees and consultants and any stenographer or court reporter attending for the sole purpose of preparing a verbatim transcript. All Commission employees and consultants may attend nonadjudicative portions of any closed meeting and members of Commissioners' personal staffs, the General Counsel and his staff, and the Secretary and his staff may attend the adjudicative portions of any closed meeting except to the extent the notice of a particular closed meeting otherwise specifically provides. Stenographers or court reporters may attend any closed meeting at which their services are required by the Commission.

(2) If a Commission meeting, or portions thereof, may be closed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(10), the Commission may, by vote recorded at the beginning of the meeting, or portion thereof, close the portion or portions of the meeting so exempt.

(3) Closed meeting transcripts or minutes required by 5 U.S.C. 552b(f)(1) will be released to the public insofar as they contain information that either is not exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552b(c), or, although exempt, should be disclosed in the public interest. The Commission will determine whether to release, in whole or in part, the minutes of its executive sessions to consider oral arguments. With regard to all other closed meetings, the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee shall determine, in accordance with ยง 4.9(c), which portions of the transcripts or minutes may be released.

(d) The presiding officer shall be responsible for preserving order and decorum at meetings and shall have all powers necessary to that end.
