
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1632 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF MATTRESSES AND MATTRESS PADS (FF 4-72, AMENDED)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### § 1632.6 Ticking substitution procedure.
####### Scope and application.

(c)(1) This procedure provides an independent evaluation of the cigarette ignition characteristics of ticking and for the classification of ticking into one of three performance classes. Class A represents tickings evaluated as acting as barriers against cigarette ignition; Class B represents tickings evaluated as having no effect on cigarette ignition; and Class C represents tickings evaluated as having the potential, in some manner, to act as a contributor to cigarette ignition.

(2) Substitution of any ticking which has been evaluated as Class A using the procedure in this § 1632.6 for any other ticking material shall not be a "difference in materials" as that phrase is used in §§ 1632.1 (j) and (k). Consequently, any ticking material evaluated as Class A under this test procedure may be used on any qualified mattress prototype or on any qualified mattress pad prototype without conducting new prototype tests.

(3) Substitution of any ticking which has been evaluated as Class B using the procedure in this § 1632.6 for the ticking material used on any mattress prototype or on any mattress pad prototype which was qualified in prototype testing with a testing material evaluated as Class B or a Class C shall not be a "difference in materials" as that phrase is used in §§ 1632.1 (j) and (k). Consequently, any ticking material evaluated as Class B under this test procedure may be used on any mattress or mattress pad which wa qualified in prototype testing with a Class B or Class C ticking material without conducting new prototype tests. However, if Class B ticking material is to be used on any mattress or mattress pad which was qualified in prototype testing with a Class A ticking material, the mattress prototype or mattress pad prototype must be requalified, using a Class B ticking.

(4) A ticking material which has been evaluated as Class C using the procedure in this § 1632.6 may be used only on a mattress or mattress pad which was qualified in prototype testing with that particular Class C ticking material. Consequently, a ticking material evaluated as Class C under this test procedure may not be used on any mattress or mattress pad which was qualified in prototype testing using another Class C ticking material, or a Class A or Class B ticking material, without conducting new prototype tests.
