
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1632 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF MATTRESSES AND MATTRESS PADS (FF 4-72, AMENDED)
##### Subpart A - The Standard
###### ยง 1632.6 Ticking substitution procedure.
####### Testing.

(4)(i) Ticking specimens shall be tested in a testroom with atmospheric conditions of a temperature greater than 18 &#xB0;C (65 &#xB0;F) and a relative humidity less than 55%.

(ii) Three cigarettes shall be burned on each ticking specimen, with no more than one cigarette burning at any time. At least one cigarette shall be placed on the most prominent part of the color and weave pattern design in the ticking. If the ticking is quilted, one cigarette shall be placed over the thread or in the depression created by the quilting process. Each cigarette must be positioned no less than two inches (5.08 cm) from any other cigarette or the edge of the box.

(iii) Light and place one cigarette on the test specimen. Immediately cover the burning cigarette with a sheet test cover. The cigarette shall be well lighted but not burned more than 4 mm (0.16 inch) when placed on the test specimen. The cigarette may be supported by three straight pins such that one pin supports the cigarette at the burning end, one at the center and one at the butt. The heads of the pins must be below the upper surface of the cigarette. Upon completion of the three cigarette burns and removal of the fabric and foam specimens, remove all of the char or heat discoloration on the cotton felt as stated in ยง 1632.6(e)(v)(B). Fresh new felt shall be added to replace the discarded fibers in the amount necessary to maintain the full 907.2+/-4 grams (two pounds) of felt for each test.

(iv) If the cigarette extinguishes before burning its full length, the test must be repeated with a freshly lit cigarette on a different portion of the ticking specimen until either three cigarettes have burned their full lengths or three cigarettes have extinguished. Report result for each cigarette as pass or fail as defined in Test Criterion ยง 1632.6(d)(2). An obvious ignition is recorded as a failure.

(v) If ignition occurs with any of the three cigarette burns on the ticking specimen, terminate testing of that specimen and classify according to ยง 1632.6(d)(4).
