
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1632 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF MATTRESSES AND MATTRESS PADS (FF 4-72, AMENDED)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1632.31 Mattresses/mattress pads - labeling, recordkeeping, guaranties and "one of a kind" exemption.
####### Labeling.

(b)(1) All mattress pads which contain a chemical fire retardant shall be labeled with precautionary instructions to protect the pads from agents or treatments which are known to cause deterioration of their flame resistance. Such labels shall be permanent, prominent, conspicuous, and legible.

(2) If a mattress pad contains a chemical fire retardant, it shall be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the letter "T".

(3) Each mattress or mattress pad subject to the Standard shall bear a permanent, accessible, and legible label containing the month and year of manufacture and the location of the manufacturer. (See ยง 1632.1(i) of the Amended Standard.)

(4) The information required on labels by this section shall be set forth separately from any other information appearing on such label. Other information, representations, or disclosures, appearing on labels required by this section or elsewhere on the item, shall not interfere with, minimize, detract from, or conflict with the required information.

(5) No person, other than the ultimate consumer, shall remove or mutilate, or cause or participate in the removal or mutilation of, any label required by this section to be affixed to any item.

(6) Products intended for one time use (see ยง 1632.5(b)(1)(i)) are not subject to the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this ยง 1632.31(b).
