
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1632 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF MATTRESSES AND MATTRESS PADS (FF 4-72, AMENDED)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### § 1632.31 Mattresses/mattress pads - labeling, recordkeeping, guaranties and "one of a kind" exemption.
####### Records,manufacturers, importers, or persons initially introducing items into commerce.

(c)-Every manufacturer, importer, or other person initially introducing into commerce mattresses or mattress pads subject to the standard, irrespective of whether guarantees are issued relative thereto, shall maintain the records hereinafter specified.

(1) Manufacturing specifications and description of each mattress or mattress pad prototype with an assigned prototype identification number.

(2) Test results and details of each prototype test performed in accordance with § 1632.4 or § 1632.5, including prototype identification number, ticking classification if known, test room condition, cigarette locations, number of relights for each location, whether each cigarette location passed or failed, name and signature of person conducting the test and date of test. These records shall include a certification by the person overseeing the testing as to the test results and that the test was carried out in accordance with the Standard.

(3) Photograph (color or black and white) of the bare surface of each mattress or mattress pad tested, in accordance with § 1632.4 or § 1632.5, with the prototype identification number of the mattress or mattress pad and a clear designation as to which part of the mattress or mattress pad was sheeted and which part was tested bare.

(4) Records to support any determination that a particular material, other than the ticking or tape edge material used in a mattress or mattress pad prototype, did not influence the ignition resistance of the prototype and could be substituted by another material. Such record should include photographs or physical specimens.

(5) Manufacturing specifications and description of any new ticking or tape edge material substituted in accordance with § 1632.6 or § 1632.7, with the identification number of the prototype involved.
