
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1632 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF MATTRESSES AND MATTRESS PADS (FF 4-72, AMENDED)
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### § 1632.31 Mattresses/mattress pads - labeling, recordkeeping, guaranties and "one of a kind" exemption.
####### or

(6) The test results and details of any ticking classification test conducted in accordance with § 1632.6, including the ticking classification (A, B, or C), the test room condition, the number of relights, whether each cigarette location passed or failed, the name and signature of the person conducting the test and the date of the test,a certification from the ticking supplier. The certification should state the ticking classification and that the ticking was tested in accordance with § 1632.6.

(7) The test results and details of any test of tape edge materials conducted in accordance with § 1632.7, including prototype identification number, test room condition, number of relights, whether each cigarette passed or failed, name and signature of person conducting the test and date of test. The record shall include a certification by the person overseeing the testing as to the test results and that the test was carried out in accordance with § 1632.7.

(8) Photograph (color or black and white) of the bare surface of each mattress or mattress pad tested in accordance with § 1632.7, with the prototype identification number of the mattress or mattress pad and a clear designation as to which part of the mattress or mattress pad was sheeted and which part was tested bare.

(9) Details of any approved alternate laundering procedure used in laundering mattress pads required by the Standard to be laundered during testing.

(10) Identification, composition, and details of the application of any flame retardant treatments employed relative to mattress pads or mattress pad components.

(11) Disposition of all failing or rejected prototype mattress or mattress pads. Such records must demonstrate that the items were retested and reworked in accordance with the Standard prior to sale or distribution and that such retested or reworked mattresses or mattress pads comply with the Standard, or must otherwise show the disposition of such items.

(12) The records required by this paragraph shall be maintained for as long as the prototype is in production, the ticking is being used on the mattresses or mattress pad prototype, and/or the tape edge material is being used on the mattress or mattress pad prototype, and shall be retained for 3 years thereafter.
