
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1632 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF MATTRESSES AND MATTRESS PADS (FF 4-72, AMENDED)
##### Subpart C - Interpretations and Policies
###### ยง 1632.63 Policy clarification on renovation of mattress.

(a) Section 3 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1192) prohibits, among other things, the "manufacture for sale" of any product which fails to conform to an applicable standard issued under the act. The standard for the Flammability of Mattresses, as amended (FF 4-72) (subpart A of this part), issued pursuant to the act, provides that, with certain exceptions, mattress must be tested according to a prescribed method. The standard does not exempt renovation; nor does it specifically refer to renovation.

(b) The purpose of this document is to inform the public that mattresses renovated for sale are considered by the Commission to be mattresses manufactured for sale and, therefore, subject to the requirements of the Mattress Standard. The Commission believes that this policy clarification will better protect the public against the unreasonable risk of fires leading to death, personal injury or significant property damage, and assure that purchasers of renovated mattresses receive the same protection under the Flammable Fabrics Act as purchasers of new mattresses.

(c) For purposes of this document, mattress renovation includes a wide range of operations. Replacing the ticking or batting, stripping a mattress to its springs, rebuilding a mattress, or replacing components with new or recycled materials, are all part of the process of renovation. Any one, or any combination of one or more, of these steps in mattress renovation is considered to be mattress manufacture.

(d) If the person who renovates the mattress intends to retain the renovated mattress for his or her own use, or if a customer or a renovator merely hires the services of the renovator and intends to take back the renovated mattress for his or her own use, "manufacture for sale" has not occurred and such a renovated mattress is not subject to the mattress standard.

(e) However, if a renovated mattress is sold or intended for sale, either by the renovator or the owner of the mattress who hires the services of the renovator, such a transaction is considered to be "manufacture for sale".

(f) Accordingly, mattress renovation is considered by the Commission to be "manufacture for sale" and, therefore, subject to the Mattress Standard, when renovated mattresses are sold or intended for sale by a renovator or the customer of the renovator.

(g) A renovator who believes that certain mattresses are entitled to one-of-a-kind exemption, may present relevant facts to the Commission and petition for an exemption. Renovators are expected to comply with all the testing requirements of the Mattress Standard until an exemption is approved.
