
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 5 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
##### Subpart E - Disciplinary Actions Concerning Postemployment Conflict of Interest
###### ยง 5.58 Answer and request for a hearing.

(a) An answer and request for a hearing must be filed with the Secretary of the Commission within thirty (30) days after service of the order to show cause.

(b) In the absence of good cause shown, failure to file an answer and request for a hearing within the specified time limit:

(1) Will be deemed a waiver of the respondent's right to contest the allegations of the show cause order or request a hearing and

(2) Shall authorize the Commission to find the facts to be as alleged in the show cause order and enter a final decision providing for the imposition of such sanctions specified in ยง 5.67 as the Commission deems appropriate.

(c) An answer shall contain (1) a concise statement of the facts or law constituting each ground of defense and (2) specific admission, denial, or explanation of each fact alleged in the show cause order or, if the respondent is without knowledge thereof, a statement to that effect. Any allegations of a complaint not answered in this manner will be deemed admitted.

(d) Hearings shall be deemed waived as to any facts in the show cause order that are specifically admitted or deemed to be admitted as a result of respondent's failure to deny them. Those portions of respondent's answer, together with the show cause order, will provide a record basis for initial decision by the Administrative Law Judge or for final decision by the Commission.

(e) If all material factual allegations of the show cause order are specifically admitted or have been deemed admitted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the Commission will decide the matter on the basis of the allegations set forth in the show cause order and respondent's answer.
