
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1633 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY (OPEN FLAME) OF MATTRESS SETS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1633.11 Records.
####### Prototype records.

(b)In addition to the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the following records shall be maintained for each qualified, confirmed and subordinate prototype:

(1) Unique identification number for the qualified or confirmed prototype and a list of the unique identification numbers of each subordinate prototype based on the qualified or confirmed prototype. Subordinate prototypes that differ from each other only be length or width may share the same identification number.

(2) A detailed description of all materials, components, and methods of assembly for each qualified, confirmed and subordinate prototype. Such description shall include the specifications of all materials and components, and the name and complete physical address of each material and component supplier.

(3) A list of which models and production lots of mattress sets are represented by each qualified, confirmed and/or subordinate prototype identification number.

(4) For subordinate prototypes, the prototype identification number of the qualified or confirmed prototype on which the mattress set is based, and, at a minimum, the manufacturing specifications and a description of the materials substituted, photographs or physical specimens of the substituted materials, and documentation based on objectively reasonable criteria that the change in any component, material, or method of assembly will not cause the subordinate prototype to exceed the test criteria specified in ยง 1633.3(b).

(5) Identification, composition, and details of the application of any flame retardant treatments and/or inherently flame resistant fibers or other materials employed in mattress components.
