
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter D - Flammable Fabrics Act Regulations
#### PART 1633 - STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY (OPEN FLAME) OF MATTRESS SETS
##### Subpart B - Rules and Regulations
###### ยง 1633.12 Labeling.
####### WITHOUT,WITHOUT

(4) The statement specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section must be in 10-point or larger Arial/Helvetica font, uppercase letters with the words "A FOUNDATION OR" bolded and the word "" in italics. The foundation identifier should be in 12-point font or larger, bolded, and underlined. The text shall be centered in a text box with the width measuring 2&#x2033; and the length increasing as needed. See Figures 14 and 15 of this part.

(c) The foundation label required in paragraph (a) of this section must measure 2&#x2033; in width and the length can increase as needed for varying information. The label must be white with black text. The label shall contain the following:

(1) The information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section; and

(2) The words "Foundation ID:" followed by a distinct name and/or number that corresponds to the name and/or number used on the mattress. This text must be in 10-point or larger bold Arial/Helvetica font, and the foundation identifier must be underlined. See Figures 12 through 15 of this part.

(d) The statements specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) and (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section may be translated into any other language and printed on the reverse (blank) side of the label.

(e) No person, other than the ultimate consumer, shall remove or mutilate, or cause or participate in the removal or mutilation of, any label required by this section to be affixed to any item.
