
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter E - Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 Regulations
#### PART 1700 - POISON PREVENTION PACKAGING
##### § 1700.14 Substances requiring special packaging.
###### Prescription drugs.

(10)Any drug for human use that is in a dosage form intended for oral administration and that is required by Federal law to be dispensed only by or upon an oral or written prescription of a practitioner licensed by law to administer such drug shall be packaged in accordance with the provisions of § 1700.15 (a), (b), and (c), except for the following:

(i) Sublingual dosage forms of nitroglycerin.

(ii) Sublingual and chewable forms of isosorbide dinitrate in dosage strengths of 10 milligrams or less.

(iii) Erythromycin ethylsuccinate granules for oral suspension and oral suspensions in packages containing not more than 8 grams of the equivalent of erythromycin.

(iv) Cyclically administered oral contraceptives in manufacturers' mnemonic (memory-aid) dispenser packages that rely solely upon the activity of one or more progestogen or estrogen substances.

(v) Anhydrous cholestyramine in powder form.

(vi) All unit dose forms of potassium supplements, including individually-wrapped effervescent tablets, unit dose vials of liquid potassium, and powdered potassium in unit-dose packets, containing not more than 50 milliequivalents of potassium per unit dose.

(vii) Sodium fluoride drug preparations including liquid and tablet forms, containing not more than 110 milligrams of sodium fluoride (the equivalent of 50 mg of elemental fluoride) per package or not more than a concentration of 0.5 percent elemental fluoride on a weight-to-volume basis for liquids or a weight-to-weight basis for non-liquids and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).

(viii) Betamethasone tablets packaged in manufacturers' dispenser packages, containing no more than 12.6 milligrams betamethasone.

(ix) Pancrelipase preparations in tablet, capsule, or powder form and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).

(x) Prednisone in tablet form, when dispensed in packages containing no more than 105 mg. of the drug, and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).

(xi)-(xii) [Reserved]

(xiii) Mebendazole in tablet form in packages containing not more than 600 mg. of the drug, and containing no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.

(xiv) Methylprednisolone in tablet form in packages containing not more than 84 mg of the drug and containing no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.

(xv) Colestipol in powder form in packages containing not more than 5 grams of the drug and containing no other substance subject to the provisions of this section.

(xvi) Erythromycin ethylsuccinate tablets in packages containing no more than the equivalent of 16 grams erythromycin.

(xvii) Conjugated Estrogens Tablets, U.S.P., when dispensed in mnemonic packages containing not more than 32.0 mg of the drug and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).

(xviii) Norethindrone Acetate Tablets, U.S.P., when dispensed in mnemonic packages containing not more than 50 mg of the drug and containing no other substances subject to this § 1700.14(a)(10).

(xix) Medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets.

(xx) Sacrosidase (sucrase) preparations in a solution of glycerol and water.

(xxi) Hormone Replacement Therapy Products that rely solely upon the activity of one or more progestogen or estrogen substances.

(xxii) Colesevelam hydrochloride in powder form in packages containing not more than 3.75 grams of the drug.

(xxiii) Sevelamer carbonate in powder form in packages containing not more than 2.4 grams of the drug.
