
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter E - Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970 Regulations
#### PART 1700 - POISON PREVENTION PACKAGING
##### ยง 1700.20 Testing procedure for special packaging.
###### Younger-adult panel.

(4)(i) One hundred adults, age 18 to 45 inclusive, with no overt physical or mental handicaps, and 70% of whom are female, shall comprise the test panel for younger adults. Not more than 35% of adults shall be obtained or tested at any one site. No individual tester shall administer the test to more than 35% of the adults tested. The adults shall be tested individually, rather than in groups of two or more. The adults shall receive only such printed instructions on how to open and properly resecure the special packaging as will appear on the package as it is delivered to the consumer. Five minutes shall be allowed to complete the opening and, if appropriate, the resecuring process.

(ii) Records shall be kept of the number of adults unable to open and of the number of the other adults tested who fail to properly resecure the special packaging. The number of adults who successfully open the special packaging and then properly resecure the special packaging (if resecuring is appropriate) is the percent of adult-use effectiveness of the special packaging. In the case of unit packaging, the percent of adult-use effectiveness shall be the number of adults who successfully open a single (unit) package.

(b) The standards published as regulations issued for the purpose of designating particular substances as being subject to the requirements for special packaging under the act will stipulate the percent of child-resistant effectiveness and adult-use effectiveness required for each and, where appropriate, will include any other conditions deemed necessary and provided for in the act.

(c) It is recommended that manufacturers of special packaging, or producers of substances subject to regulations issued pursuant to the act, submit to the Commission summaries of data resulting from tests conducted in accordance with this protocol.
