
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter II - Consumer Product Safety Commission
### Subchapter F - Refrigerator Safety Act Regulations
#### PART 1750 - STANDARD FOR DEVICES TO PERMIT THE OPENING OF HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR DOORS FROM THE INSIDE
##### ยง 1750.6 Tests.
###### Tests for strength of device components which affect the safety features of the device.

(c)(1) The tests prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall apply only to devices which permit the door to be opened as a result of forces or turning moments applied to movable components inside the refrigerator.

(2) A turning moment of 2.26 newton-meters (20 inch-pounds) shall be applied for 50 successive operations in a clockwise direction, followed by 50 successive similar operations in a counterclockwise direction, to components designed to permit the door to be opened as a result of the application of a turning moment to them. The turning moment shall be applied to the outer periphery of the component provided. The gage used for registering the moment applied shall have a calibrated accuracy within +/-0.044 newton-meter (+/-0.4 inch-pound) when measuring a moment of 2.26 newton-meters (20 inch-pounds). The finest graduations on the dial of the gage shall correspond to a moment increment not greater than 0.044 newton-meter (0.4 inch-pound) and the full-scale range of the gage shall not exceed 4.52 newton-meters (40 inch-pounds) in each direction from the null reading. The turning moment applied in each operation shall be applied for a period of time sufficient for the component to come to rest after completing the extent of movement for which designed. A pushing force of 89.0 newtons (20 pounds) shall be applied for 50 successive operations, followed, if applicable, by 50 successive similar operations with a pulling force, to components designed to permit the door to be opened as a result of the application of a force to them. Areas which may be, in service, subjected to pushing or pulling forces which create maximum stresses (for example, points on the outer periphery of components designed to transmit a turning moment, or unsupported portions of members or areas designed for transmitting a force) shall be subjected to test. The gage used for registering the force applied shall have a calibrated accuracy within +/-1.8 newtons (+/-0.4 pound) when measuring a force of 89.0 newtons (20 pounds). The finest graduations on the dial of the gage shall correspond to a force not in excess of 1.8 newtons (0.4 pound) and the full-scale range shall not exceed 177.9 newtons (40 pounds).

(3) Upon being subjected to the tests prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, no device component on which the safety features of the device depend shall break, crack, permanently deform, or show other visible damage. The device must satisfy the requirements of ยง 1750.5(a) after being subjected to the tests in paragraph (c)(2).
