
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 6 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
##### ยง 6.170 Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Commission.

(b) The Commission shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791). The Commission shall apply the same procedures to process complaints alleging violations of section 508. Complaints alleging a violation of section 508 may not be filed with respect to any exempted matters as described in ยง 6.152(c) of this chapter, and may be filed only with respect to electronic and information technology procured by the Commission on or after June 21, 2001.

(c) Responsibility for implementation and operation of this section is vested in the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity.

(d)(1) A complete complaint under this section may be filed by any person who believes that he or she or any specific class of persons of which he or she is a member has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part. The complaint may also be filed by an authorized representative of any such person.

(2) The complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination unless the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity extends the time period for good cause.

(3) The complaint must be addressed to the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20580.

(e) If the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity receives a complaint over which the Commission does not have jurisdiction, he or she shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.

(f) The Director of Equal Employment Opportunity shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157) is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.

(g)(1) The Director of Equal Employment Opportunity shall accept and investigate a complete complaint that is filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and over which the Commission has jurisdiction.

(2) If the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity receives a complaint that is not complete (see ยง 6.103), he or she shall, within 30 days thereafter, notify the complainant that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint within 30 days of the date of the Director's notice, the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity may dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

(h) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint over which the Commission has jurisdiction, the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing-

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal to the Commission's General Counsel.

(i)(1) An appeal under this section must be filed within 90 days of the complainant's receipt of the letter under paragraph (h) of this section unless the General Counsel extends the time period for good cause.

(2) The appeal must be addressed to the General Counsel, Federal Trade Commission, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20580.

(3) The appeal shall specify the questions raised by the appeal and the arguments on the points of fact and law relied upon in support of the position taken on each question; and it shall include copies of the complaint filed under paragraph (d) of this section and the letter by the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity under paragraph (h) of this section as well as any other material relied upon in support of the appeal.

(j) The General Counsel shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the appeal. If the General Counsel determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, the General Counsel shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make a final determination on the appeal. The General Counsel may submit the appeal to the Commission for final determination provided that any final determination of the appeal is made by the Commission within the 60-day period specified by this paragraph.

(k) The time limits specified by paragraphs (h) and (j) of this section may be extended by the Chairman for good cause.

(l) The Commission may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated.
