
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 16 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
##### § 16.7 Meetings.

(a) The Commission shall designate an officer or employee of the Federal Government as the Designated Federal Officer for the advisory committee. The Designated Federal Officer shall attend the meetings of the advisory committee, and shall adjourn committee meetings whenever he or she determines that adjournment is in the public interest. The Commission, in its discretion, may authorize the Designated Federal Officer to chair meetings of the advisory committee.

(b) No meeting of any advisory committee shall be held except at the call of, or with the advance approval of, the Designated Federal Officer and with an agenda approved by such official.

(c) The agenda required by paragraph (b) of this section shall identify, in general terms, matters to be considered at the meeting and shall indicate whether any part of the meeting will concern matters that the General Counsel has determined to be covered by one or more of the exemptions of the Sunshine Act.

(d) Timely notice of each meeting of the advisory committee shall be provided in accordance with § 16.9 of this part.

(e) Subject to the provisions of § 16.8 of this part, each meeting of an advisory committee as defined in § 16.2(b) of this part shall be open to the public. Subcommittees and subgroups that are not utilized by the Commission for the purpose of obtaining advice or recommendations do not constitute advisory committees within the meaning of § 16.2(b) and are not subject to the meeting and other requirements of this part.

(f) Meetings that are completely or partly open to the public shall be held at reasonable times and at places that are reasonably accessible to members of the public. The size of the meeting room shall be sufficient to accommodate members of the public who can reasonably be expected to attend.

(g) Any member of the public shall be permitted to file a written statement with the committee concerning any matter to be considered in a meeting. Interested persons may be permitted by the committee chairman to speak at such meetings in accordance with procedures established by the committee and subject to the time constraints under which the meeting is to be conducted.

(h) No meeting of any advisory committee shall be held in the absence of a quorum. Unless otherwise established by statute or in the charter of the committee, a quorum shall consist of a majority of the committee's authorized membership.
