
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter A - Organization, Procedures and Rules of Practice
#### PART 16 - ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT
##### ยง 16.8 Closed meetings.

(a) Paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of ยง 16.7 of this part, which require that meetings shall be open to the public and that the public shall be afforded an opportunity to participate in such meetings, shall not apply to any advisory committee meeting (or any portion thereof) which the Commission determines is concerned with any matter covered by one or more of the exemptions set forth in paragraph (c) of the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. section 552b(c).

(b) An advisory committee that seeks to have all or part of its meeting closed shall notify the Commission at least thirty days before the scheduled date of the meeting. The notification shall be in writing and shall identify the specific provisions of the Sunshine Act which justify closure. The Commission may waive the thirty-day requirement when a lesser period of time is requested and justified by the advisory committee.

(c) The General Counsel shall review all requests to close meetings and shall advise the Commission on the disposition of each such request.

(d) If the Commission determines that the request is consistent with the policies of the Sunshine Act and the Federal Advisory Committee Act, it shall issue a determination that all or part of the meeting may be closed. A copy of the Commission's determination shall be made available to the public upon request.

(e) The advisory committee shall issue, on an annual basis, a report that sets forth a summary of its activities in meetings closed pursuant to this section, addressing those related matters as would be informative to the public and consistent with the policy of the Sunshine Act and of this part. Notice of the availability of such annual reports shall be published in accordance with ยง 16.15 of this part.
