
# Title 16 - Commercial Practices
## Chapter I - Federal Trade Commission
### Subchapter C - Regulations Under Specific Acts of Congress
#### PART 300 - RULES AND REGULATIONS UNDER THE WOOL PRODUCTS LABELING ACT OF 1939
##### Manufacturers' Records
###### ยง 300.31 Maintenance of records.

(a) Pursuant to the provisions of section 6 of the Act, every manufacturer of a wool product subject to the Act, irrespective of whether any guaranty has been given or received, shall maintain records showing the information required by the Act and Regulations with respect to all such wool products made by such manufacturer. Such records shall show:

(1) The fiber content of the product specified in section 4(a)(2)(A) of the Act.

(2) The maximum percentage of the total weight of the wool product of any non-fibrous loading, filling or adulterating matter as prescribed by section 4(a)(2)(B) of the Act.

(3) The name, or registered identification number issued by the Commission, of the manufacturer of the wool product or the name or registered identification number of one or more persons subject to section 3 of the Act with respect to such wool product.

(4) The name of the country where the wool product was processed or manufactured as prescribed by sections 300.25a and/or .25b.

(b) Any person substituting labels shall keep such records as will show the information on the label removed and the name or names of the person or persons from whom the wool product was received.

(c) The purpose of these records is to permit a determination that the requirements of the Act and Regulations have been met and to establish a traceable line of continuity from raw material through processing to finished product. The records shall be preserved for at least three years.
