
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 217-CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES, SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES, AND STATE MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION Q)
##### Subpart G-Transition Provisions
###### § 217.300 Transitions.
####### Prompt corrective action.

(e)For purposes of 12 CFR part 208, subpart D, a Board-regulated institution must calculate its capital measures and tangible equity ratio in accordance with the transition provisions in this section.

(f) Until July 21, 2015, this part will not apply to any bank holding company subsidiary of a foreign banking organization that is currently relying on Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 01-01 issued by the Board (as in effect on May 19, 2010).

(g) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may apply the treatment under §§ 217.21 and 217.22(c)(2), (5), (6), and (d)(2) applicable to an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2020. During the quarter beginning January 1, 2020, a Board-regulated institution that makes such an election must deduct 80 percent of the amount otherwise required to be deducted under § 217.22(d)(2) and must apply a 100 percent risk weight to assets not deducted under § 217.22(d)(2). In addition, during the quarter beginning January 1, 2020, a Board-regulated institution that makes such an election must include in its regulatory capital 20 percent of any minority interest that exceeds the amount of minority interest includable in regulatory capital under § 217.21 as it applies to an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution. A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must apply the treatment under §§ 217.21 and 217.22 applicable to a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution beginning April 1, 2020, and thereafter.
