
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 217-CAPITAL ADEQUACY OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES, SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES, AND STATE MEMBER BANKS (REGULATION Q)
##### Subpart G-Transition Provisions
###### § 217.304 Temporary changes to the community bank leverage ratio framework.
####### et seq.

(1) The termination date of the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease outbreak declared by the President on March 13, 2020, under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601); or

(2) December 31, 2020.

(d) Upon the termination of the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a Board-regulated institution is subject to the following:

(1) Through December 31, 2020:

(i) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution and that meets all the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization under § 217.12(a)(2) but for § 217.12(a)(2)(i) is a qualifying banking organization if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8 percent.

(ii) Notwithstanding § 217.12(a)(1), a qualifying community banking organization that has made an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under § 217.12(a)(3) shall be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10, the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 208.43(b)(1) of this chapter, if applicable, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8 percent.

(iii) Notwithstanding § 217.12(c)(6) and subject to § 217.12(c)(5), a Board-regulated institution that has a leverage ratio of greater than 7 percent has the grace period described in § 217.12(c)(1) through (4). A Board-regulated institution that has a leverage ratio of 7 percent or less does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 217.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of 7 percent or less.

(2) From January 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021:

(i) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution and that meets all the criteria to be a qualifying community banking organization under § 217.12(a)(2) but for § 217.12(a)(2)(i) is a qualifying banking organization if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8.5 percent.

(ii) Notwithstanding § 217.12(a)(1), a qualifying community banking organization that has made an election to use the community bank leverage ratio framework under § 217.12(a)(3) shall be considered to have met the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10, the capital ratio requirements for the well capitalized capital category under § 208.43(b)(1) of this chapter, if applicable, and any other capital or leverage requirements to which the qualifying community banking organization is subject, if it has a leverage ratio greater than 8.5 percent.

(iii) Notwithstanding § 217.12(c)(6) and subject to § 217.12(c)(5), a Board-regulated institution that has a leverage ratio of greater than 7.5 percent has the grace period described in § 217.12(c)(1) through (4). A Board-regulated institution that has a leverage ratio of 7.5 percent or less does not have a grace period and must comply with the minimum capital requirements under § 217.10(a)(1) and must report the required capital measures under § 217.10(a)(1) for the quarter in which it reports a leverage ratio of 7.5 percent or less.
