
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart F - Risk-Weighted Assets - Market Risk
##### ยง 3.212 Market risk disclosures.
###### Scope.

(a)A national bank or Federal savings association must comply with this section unless it is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or a depository institution that is subject to these requirements or of a non-U.S. banking organization that is subject to comparable public disclosure requirements in its home jurisdiction. A national bank or Federal savings association must make timely public disclosures each calendar quarter. If a significant change occurs, such that the most recent reporting amounts are no longer reflective of the national bank's or Federal savings association's capital adequacy and risk profile, then a brief discussion of this change and its likely impact must be provided as soon as practicable thereafter. Qualitative disclosures that typically do not change each quarter may be disclosed annually, provided any significant changes are disclosed in the interim. If a national bank or Federal savings association believes that disclosure of specific commercial or financial information would prejudice seriously its position by making public certain information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the national bank or Federal savings association is not required to disclose these specific items, but must disclose more general information about the subject matter of the requirement, together with the fact that, and the reason why, the specific items of information have not been disclosed. The national bank's or Federal savings association's management may provide all of the disclosures required by this section in one place on the national bank's or Federal savings association's public Web site or may provide the disclosures in more than one public financial report or other regulatory reports, provided that the national bank or Federal savings association publicly provides a summary table specifically indicating the location(s) of all such disclosures.
