
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 222 - FAIR CREDIT REPORTING (REGULATION V)
##### Subpart C - Affiliate Marketing
###### ยง 222.21 Affiliate marketing opt-out and exceptions.
####### Examples of making solicitations.

(6)(i) A consumer has a deposit account with a depository institution, which is affiliated with an insurance company. The insurance company receives eligibility information about the consumer from the depository institution. The insurance company uses that eligibility information to identify the consumer to receive a solicitation about insurance products, and, as a result, the insurance company provides a solicitation to the consumer about its insurance products. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the insurance company has made a solicitation to the consumer.

(ii) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, except that after using the eligibility information to identify the consumer to receive a solicitation about insurance products, the insurance company asks the depository institution to send the solicitation to the consumer and the depository institution does so. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the insurance company has made a solicitation to the consumer because it used eligibility information about the consumer that it received from an affiliate to identify the consumer to receive a solicitation about its products or services, and, as a result, a solicitation was provided to the consumer about the insurance company's products.

(iii) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, except that eligibility information about consumers that have deposit accounts with the depository institution is placed into a common database that all members of the affiliated group of companies may independently access and use. Without using the depository institution's eligibility information, the insurance company develops selection criteria and provides those criteria, marketing materials, and related instructions to the depository institution. The depository institution reviews eligibility information about its own consumers using the selection criteria provided by the insurance company to determine which consumers should receive the insurance company's marketing materials and sends marketing materials about the insurance company's products to those consumers. Even though the insurance company has received eligibility information through the common database as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it did not use that information to identify consumers or establish selection criteria; instead, the depository institution used its own eligibility information. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the insurance company has not made a solicitation to the consumer.

(iv) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section, except that the depository institution provides the insurance company's criteria to the depository institution's service provider and directs the service provider to use the depository institution's eligibility information to identify depository institution consumers who meet the criteria and to send the insurance company's marketing materials to those consumers. The insurance company does not communicate directly with the service provider regarding the use of the depository institution's information to market its products to the depository institution's consumers. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the insurance company has not made a solicitation to the consumer.

(v) An affiliated group of companies includes a depository institution, an insurance company, and a service provider. Each affiliate in the group places information about its consumers into a common database. The service provider has access to all information in the common database. The depository institution controls access to and use of its eligibility information by the service provider. This control is set forth in a written agreement between the depository institution and the service provider. The written agreement also requires the service provider to establish reasonable policies and procedures designed to ensure that the service provider uses the depository institution's eligibility information in accordance with specific terms and conditions established by the depository institution relating to the marketing of the products and services of all affiliates, including the insurance company. In a separate written communication, the depository institution specifies the terms and conditions under which the service provider may use the depository institution's eligibility information to market the insurance company's products and services to the depository institution's consumers. The specific terms and conditions are: A list of affiliated companies (including the insurance company) whose products or services may be marketed to the depository institution's consumers by the service provider; the specific products or types of products that may be marketed to the depository institution's consumers by the service provider; the categories of eligibility information that may be used by the service provider in marketing products or services to the depository institution's consumers; the types or categories of the depository institution's consumers to whom the service provider may market products or services of depository institution affiliates; the number and/or types of marketing communications that the service provider may send to the depository institution's consumers; and the length of time during which the service provider may market the products or services of the depository institution's affiliates to its consumers. The depository institution periodically evaluates the service provider's compliance with these terms and conditions. The insurance company asks the service provider to market insurance products to certain consumers who have deposit accounts with the depository institution. Without using the depository institution's eligibility information, the insurance company develops selection criteria and provides those criteria, marketing materials, and related instructions to the service provider. The service provider uses the depository institution's eligibility information from the common database to identify the depository institution's consumers to whom insurance products will be marketed. When the insurance company's marketing materials are provided to the identified consumers, the name of the depository institution is displayed on the insurance marketing materials, an introductory letter that accompanies the marketing materials, an account statement that accompanies the marketing materials, or the envelope containing the marketing materials. The requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section have been satisfied, and the insurance company has not made a solicitation to the consumer.

(vi) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section, except that the terms and conditions permit the service provider to use the depository institution's eligibility information to market the products and services of other affiliates to the depository institution's consumers whenever the service provider deems it appropriate to do so. The service provider uses the depository institution's eligibility information in accordance with the discretion afforded to it by the terms and conditions. Because the terms and conditions are not specific, the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section have not been satisfied.
