
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart H - Establishment of Minimum Capital Ratios for an Individual Bank or Individual Federal Savings Association
##### ยง 3.404 Procedures.
###### Response.

(b)(1) The national bank or Federal savings association may respond to any or all of the items in the notice. The response should include any matters which the national bank or Federal savings association would have the OCC consider in deciding whether individual minimum capital ratios should be established for the national bank or Federal savings association, what those capital ratios should be, and, if applicable, when they should be achieved. The response must be in writing and delivered to the designated OCC official within 30 days after the date on which the national bank or Federal savings association received the notice. The OCC may shorten the time period when, in the opinion of the OCC, the condition of the national bank or Federal savings association so requires, provided that the national bank or Federal savings association is informed promptly of the new time period, or with the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association. In its discretion, the OCC may extend the time period for good cause.

(2) Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by the OCC shall constitute a waiver of any objections to the proposed minimum capital ratios or the deadline for their achievement.
