
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 222 - FAIR CREDIT REPORTING (REGULATION V)
##### Subpart C - Affiliate Marketing
###### ยง 222.21 Affiliate marketing opt-out and exceptions.
####### Examples of service provider exception.

(2)(i) A consumer has an insurance policy issued by an insurance company. The insurance company furnishes eligibility information about the consumer to its affiliated depository institution. Based on that eligibility information, the depository institution wants to make a solicitation to the consumer about its deposit products. The depository institution does not have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and none of the other exceptions in paragraph (c) of this section apply. The consumer has been given an opt-out notice and has elected to opt out of receiving such solicitations. The depository institution asks a service provider to send the solicitation to the consumer on its behalf. The service provider may not send the solicitation on behalf of the depository institution because, as a result of the consumer's opt-out election, the depository institution is not permitted to make the solicitation.

(ii) The same facts as in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, except the consumer has been given an opt-out notice, but has not elected to opt out. The depository institution asks a service provider to send the solicitation to the consumer on its behalf. The service provider may send the solicitation on behalf of the depository institution because, as a result of the consumer's not opting out, the depository institution is permitted to make the solicitation.
