
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 3 - CAPITAL ADEQUACY STANDARDS
#### Subpart J - Issuance of a Directive
##### ยง 3.603 Response to notice.

(a) A national bank or Federal savings association may respond to the notice by stating why a directive should not be issued and/or by proposing alternative contents for the directive. The response should include any matters which the national bank or Federal savings association would have the OCC consider in deciding whether to issue a directive and/or what the contents of the directive should be. The response may include a plan for achieving the minimum capital ratios applicable to the national bank or Federal savings association. The response must be in writing and delivered to the designated OCC official within 30 days after the date on which the national bank or Federal savings association received the notice. The OCC may shorten the 30-day time period:

(1) When, in the opinion of the OCC, the condition of the national bank or Federal savings association so requires, provided that the national bank or Federal savings association shall be informed promptly of the new time period;

(2) With the consent of the national bank or Federal savings association; or

(3) When the national bank or Federal savings association already has advised the OCC that it cannot or will not achieve its applicable minimum capital ratios.

(b) In its discretion, the OCC may extend the time period for good cause.

(c) Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by the OCC shall constitute a waiver of any objections to the proposed directive.
