
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 4 - ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS, AVAILABILITY AND RELEASE OF INFORMATION, CONTRACTING OUTREACH PROGRAM, POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS FOR SENIOR EXAMINERS
#### Subpart C - Release of Non-Public OCC Information
##### § 4.31 Purpose and scope.
###### Scope.

(b)(1) This subpart applies to requests for, and dissemination of, non-public OCC information, including requests for records or testimony arising out of civil lawsuits and administrative proceedings to which the OCC is not a party and the release of non-public OCC information without a specific request. Lawsuits and administrative proceedings to which the OCC is not a party include proceedings in which a Federal agency is a party in opposition to the private requester.

(2) This subpart does not apply to:

(i) A request for a record or testimony in a proceeding in which the OCC is a party; or

(ii) A request for a record that is required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552), as described in § 4.12.

(3) A request for a record or testimony made by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a government agency of the United States or a foreign government, a state agency with authority to investigate violations of criminal law, or a state bank or state savings association regulatory agency is governed solely by § 4.37(c).

(4) For purposes of §§ 4.35(a)(1), 4.36(a) and 4.37(c) of this part, the OCC's decision to disclose records or testimony involving a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) filed pursuant to the regulations implementing 12 U.S.C. 5318(g), or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, is governed by 12 CFR 21.11(k).

(5) This subpart does not apply to requests for non-public information filed with the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) before July 21, 2011. These requests are subject to the rules of the OTS in effect on July 20, 2011.
