
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 225-BANK HOLDING COMPANIES AND CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL (REGULATION Y)
##### Appendix A to Part 225-Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Risk-Based Measure
###### Tier 1 capital limitation.

e.i. The total amount of mortgage servicing assets, nonmortgage servicing assets, and purchased credit card relationships that may be included in capital, in the aggregate, cannot exceed 100 percent of tier 1 capital. Nonmortgage servicing assets and purchased credit card relationships are subject, in the aggregate, to a separate sublimit of 25 percent of tier 1 capital. In addition, the total amount of credit-enhancing I/Os (both purchased and retained) that may be included in capital cannot exceed 25 percent of tier 1 capital.

ii. For purposes of calculating these limitations on mortgage servicing assets, nonmortgage servicing assets, purchased credit card relationships, and credit-enhancing I/Os, tier 1 capital is defined as the sum of core capital elements, net of goodwill, and net of all identifiable intangible assets other than mortgage servicing assets, nonmortgage servicing assets, and purchased credit card relationships, but prior to the deduction of any disallowed mortgage servicing assets, any disallowed nonmortgage servicing assets, any disallowed purchased credit card relationships, any disallowed credit-enhancing I/Os (both purchased and retained), any disallowed deferred tax assets, and any nonfinancial equity investments.

iii. Bank holding companies may elect to deduct goodwill, disallowed mortgage servicing assets, disallowed nonmortgage servicing assets, and disallowed credit-enhancing I/Os (both purchased and retained) on a basis that is net of any associated deferred tax liability. Deferred tax liabilities netted in this manner cannot also be netted against deferred tax assets when determining the amount of deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income.
