
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 225-BANK HOLDING COMPANIES AND CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL (REGULATION Y)
##### Appendix A to Part 225-Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Risk-Based Measure
###### Revaluation reserves.

f.i. Such reserves reflect the formal balance sheet restatement or revaluation for capital purposes of asset carrying values to reflect current market values. The Federal Reserve generally has not included unrealized asset appreciation in capital ratio calculations, although it has long taken such values into account as a separate factor in assessing the overall financial strength of a banking organization.

ii. Consistent with long-standing supervisory practice, the excess of market values over book values for assets held by bank holding companies will generally not be recognized in supplementary capital or in the calculation of the risk-based capital ratio. However, all bank holding companies are encouraged to disclose their equivalent of premises (building) and security revaluation reserves. The Federal Reserve will consider any appreciation, as well as any depreciation, in specific asset values as additional considerations in assessing overall capital strength and financial condition.

Certain assets are deducted from an organization's capital for the purpose of calculating the risk-based capital ratio.These assets include:

(i)(a) Goodwill-deducted from the sum of core capital elements.

(b) Certain identifiable intangible assets, that is, intangible assets other than goodwill-deducted from the sum of core capital elements in accordance with section II.B.1.b. of this appendix.

(c) Certain credit-enhancing interest-only strips receivables-deducted from the sum of core capital elements in accordance with sections II.B.1.c. through e. of this appendix.

(ii) Investments in banking and finance subsidiaries that are not consolidated for accounting or supervisory purposes, and investments in other designated subsidiaries or associated companies at the discretion of the Federal Reserve-deducted from total capital components (as described in greater detail below).

(iii) Reciprocal holdings of capital instruments of banking organizations-deducted from total capital components.

(iv) Deferred tax assets-portions are deducted from the sum of core capital elements in accordance with section II.B.4. of this appendix A.
