
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 225-BANK HOLDING COMPANIES AND CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL (REGULATION Y)
##### Appendix A to Part 225-Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Risk-Based Measure
###### Small Business Loans and Leases on Personal Property Transferred with Recourse.

5.a. Notwithstanding other provisions of this appendix A, a qualifying banking organization that has transferred small business loans and leases on personal property (small business obligations) with recourse shall include in weighted-risk assets only the amount of retained recourse, provided two conditions are met. First, the transaction must be treated as a sale under GAAP and, second, the banking organization must establish pursuant to GAAP a non-capital reserve sufficient to meet the organization's reasonably estimated liability under the recourse arrangement. Only loans and leases to businesses that meet the criteria for a small business concern established by the Small Business Administration under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act are eligible for this capital treatment.

b. For purposes of this appendix A, a banking organization is qualifying if it meets the criteria for well capitalized or, by order of the Board, adequately capitalized, as those criteria are set forth in the Board's prompt corrective action regulation for state member banks (12 CFR 208.40). For purposes of determining whether an organization meets these criteria, its capital ratios must be calculated without regard to the capital treatment for transfers of small business obligations with recourse specified in section III.B.5.a. of this appendix A. The total outstanding amount of recourse retained by a qualifying banking organization on transfers of small business obligations receiving the preferential capital treatment cannot exceed 15 percent of the organization's total risk-based capital. By order, the Board may approve a higher limit.

c. If a bank holding company ceases to be qualifying or exceeds the 15 percent capital limitation, the preferential capital treatment will continue to apply to any transfers of small business obligations with recourse that were consummated during the time that the organization was qualifying and did not exceed the capital limit.
