
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 225-BANK HOLDING COMPANIES AND CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL (REGULATION Y)
##### Appendix A to Part 225-Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Risk-Based Measure
###### Calculation of credit equivalent amounts.

2.a. The credit equivalent amount of a derivative contract that is not subject to a qualifying bilateral netting contract in accordance with section III.E.3. of this appendix A is equal to the sum of (i) the current exposure (sometimes referred to as the replacement cost) of the contract; and (ii) an estimate of the potential future credit exposure of the contract.

b. The current exposure is determined by the mark-to-market value of the contract. If the mark-to-market value is positive, then the current exposure is equal to that mark-to-market value. If the mark-to-market value is zero or negative, then the current exposure is zero. Mark-to-market values are measured in dollars, regardless of the currency or currencies specified in the contract and should reflect changes in underlying rates, prices, and indices, as well as counterparty credit quality.

c. The potential future credit exposure of a contract, including a contract with a negative mark-to-market value, is estimated by multiplying the notional principal amount of the contract by a credit conversion factor. Banking organizations should use, subject to examiner review, the effective rather than the apparent or stated notional amount in this calculation. The credit conversion factors are:

d. For a contract that is structured such that on specified dates any outstanding exposure is settled and the terms are reset so that the market value of the contract is zero, the remaining maturity is equal to the time until the next reset date. For an interest rate contract with a remaining maturity of more than one year that meets these criteria, the minimum conversion factor is 0.5 percent.
