
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 225-BANK HOLDING COMPANIES AND CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL (REGULATION Y)
##### Appendix A to Part 225-Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Risk-Based Measure
###### Scope.

1.Credit equivalent amounts are computed for each of the following off-balance-sheet derivative contracts:

a. Interest Rate Contracts. These include single currency interest rate swaps, basis swaps, forward rate agreements, interest rate options purchased (including caps, collars, and floors purchased), and any other instrument linked to interest rates that gives rise to similar credit risks (including when-issued securities and forward forward deposits accepted).

b. Exchange Rate Contracts. These include cross-currency interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, currency options purchased, and any other instrument linked to exchange rates that gives rise to similar credit risks.

c. Equity Derivative Contracts. These include equity-linked swaps, equity-linked options purchased, forward equity-linked contracts, and any other instrument linked to equities that gives rise to similar credit risks.

d. Commodity (including precious metal) Derivative Contracts. These include commodity-linked swaps, commodity-linked options purchased, forward commodity-linked contracts, and any other instrument linked to commodities that gives rise to similar credit risks.

e. Exceptions. Exchange rate contracts with an original maturity of fourteen or fewer calendar days and derivative contracts traded on exchanges that require daily receipt and payment of cash variation margin may be excluded from the risk-based ratio calculation. Gold contracts are accorded the same treatment as exchange rate contracts except that gold contracts with an original maturity of fourteen or fewer calendar days are included in the risk-based ratio calculation. Over-the-counter options purchased are included and treated in the same way as other derivative contracts.
