
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 225-BANK HOLDING COMPANIES AND CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL (REGULATION Y)
##### Appendix A to Part 225-Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Risk-Based Measure
###### E.

c. A banking organization netting individual contracts for the purpose of calculating credit equivalent amounts of derivative contracts represents that it has met the requirements of this appendix A and all the appropriate documents are in the banking organization's files and available for inspection by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve may determine that a banking organization's files are inadequate or that a netting contract, or any of its underlying individual contracts, may not be legally enforceable under any one of the bodies of law described in section III.3.a.ii. of this appendix A. If such a determination is made, the netting contract may be disqualified from recognition for risk-based capital purposes or underlying individual contracts may be treated as though they are not subject to the netting contract.

d. The credit equivalent amount of contracts that are subject to a qualifying bilateral netting contract is calculated by adding (i) the current exposure of the netting contract (net current exposure) and (ii) the sum of the estimates of potential future credit exposures on all individual contracts subject to the netting contract (gross potential future exposure) adjusted to reflect the effects of the netting contract.

e. The net current exposure is the sum of all positive and negative mark-to-market values of the individual contracts included in the netting contract. If the net sum of the mark-to-market values is positive, then the net current exposure is equal to that sum. If the net sum of the mark-to-market values is zero or negative, then the net current exposure is zero. The Federal Reserve may determine that a netting contract qualifies for risk-based capital netting treatment even though certain individual contracts included under the netting contract may not qualify. In such instances, the nonqualifying contracts should be treated as individual contracts that are not subject to the netting contract.
