
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Subpart C-Closed-End Credit
###### § 226.17 General disclosure requirements.
####### Form of disclosures.,et seq.

(a)(1) The creditor shall make the disclosures required by this subpart clearly and conspicuously in writing, in a form that the consumer may keep. The disclosures required by this subpart may be provided to the consumer in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001). The disclosures required by §§ 226.17(g), 226.19(b), and 226.24 may be provided to the consumer in electronic form without regard to the consumer consent or other provisions of the E-Sign Act in the circumstances set forth in those sections. The disclosures shall be grouped together, shall be segregated from everything else, and shall not contain any information not directly relatedto the disclosures required under § 226.18 or § 226.47.The itemization of the amount financed under § 226.18(c)(1) must be separate from the other disclosures under § 226.18, except for private education loan disclosures made in compliance with § 226.47.

(2) Except for private education loan disclosures made in compliance with § 226.47, the terms "finance charge" and "annual percentage rate," when required to be disclosed under § 226.18 (d) and (e) together with a corresponding amount or percentage rate, shall be more conspicuous than any other disclosure, except the creditor's identity under § 226.18(a). For private education loan disclosures made in compliance with § 226.47, the term "annual percentage rate," and the corresponding percentage rate must be less conspicuous than the term "finance charge" and corresponding amount under § 226.18(d), the interest rate under §§ 226.47(b)(1)(i) and (c)(1), and the notice of the right to cancel under § 226.47(c)(4).
