
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Subpart F-Special Rules for Private Education Loans
###### § 226.46 Special disclosure requirements for private education loans.
####### Timing of disclosures,Application or solicitation disclosures.

(d)-(1)(i) The disclosures required by § 226.47(a) shall be provided on or with any application or solicitation. For purposes of this subpart, the term solicitation means an offer of credit that does not require the consumer to complete an application. A "firm offer of credit" as defined in section 603(l) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(l)) is a solicitation for purposes of this section.

(ii) The creditor may, at its option, disclose orally the information in § 226.47(a) in a telephone application or solicitation. Alternatively, if the creditor does not disclose orally the information in § 226.47(a), the creditor must provide the disclosures or place them in the mail no later than three business days after the consumer has applied for the credit, except that, if the creditor either denies the consumer's application or provides or places in the mail the disclosures in § 226.47(b) no later than three business days after the consumer requests the credit, the creditor need not also provide the § 226.47(a) disclosures.

(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(i), for a loan that the consumer may use for multiple purposes including, but not limited to, postsecondary educational expenses, the creditor need not provide the disclosures required by § 226.47(a).
