
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Subpart G-Special Rules Applicable to Credit Card Accounts and Open-End Credit Offered to College Students
###### ยง 226.58 Internet posting of credit card agreements.
####### Pricing information.

(ii)(A) Pricing information must be set forth in a single addendum to the agreement. The addendum must contain all of the pricing information, as defined by ยง 226.58(b)(7). The addendum may, but is not required to, contain any other information listed in ยง 226.6(b), provided that information is complete and accurate as of the applicable date under ยง 226.58. The addendum may not contain any other information.

(B) Pricing information that may vary from one cardholder to another depending on the cardholder's creditworthiness or state of residence or other factors must be disclosed either by setting forth all the possible variations (such as purchase APRs of 13 percent, 15 percent, 17 percent, and 19 percent) or by providing a range of possible variations (such as purchase APRs ranging from 13 percent to 19 percent).

(C) If a rate included in the pricing information is a variable rate, the issuer must identify the index or formula used in setting the rate and the margin. Rates that may vary from one cardholder to another must be disclosed by providing the index and the possible margins (such as the prime rate plus 5 percent, 8 percent, 10 percent, or 12 percent) or range of margins (such as the prime rate plus from 5 to 12 percent). The value of the rate and the value of the index are not required to be disclosed.
