
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Subpart G-Special Rules Applicable to Credit Card Accounts and Open-End Credit Offered to College Students
###### § 226.58 Internet posting of credit card agreements.
####### Form and content of agreements.

(3)(i) Except as provided in § 226.58(e), agreements posted on the card issuer's Web site pursuant to § 226.58(e)(1)(i) or made available upon the cardholder's request pursuant to § 226.58(e)(1)(ii) or (e)(2) must conform to the form and content requirements for agreements submitted to the Board specified in § 226.58(c)(8).

(ii) If the card issuer posts an agreement on its Web site or otherwise provides an agreement to a cardholder electronically under § 226.58(e), the agreement may be posted or provided in any electronic format that is readily usable by the general public and must be placed in a location that is prominent and readily accessible to the cardholder.

(iii) Agreements posted or otherwise provided pursuant to § 226.58(e) may contain personally identifiable information relating to the cardholder, such as name, address, telephone number, or account number, provided that the issuer takes appropriate measures to make the agreement accessible only to the cardholder or other authorized persons.

(iv) Agreements posted or otherwise provided pursuant to § 226.58(e) must set forth the specific provisions and pricing information applicable to the particular cardholder. Provisions and pricing information must be complete and accurate as of a date no more than 60 days prior to: (1) the date on which the agreement is posted on the card issuer's Web site under § 226.58(e)(1)(i); or (2) the date the cardholder's request is received under § 226.58(e)(1)(ii) or (e)(2).

(v) Agreements provided upon cardholder request pursuant to § 226.58(e)(1)(ii) or (e)(2) may be provided by the issuer in either electronic or paper form, regardless of the form of the cardholder's request.
