
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Appendix A to Part 226 - Effect on State Laws

A request for a determination that a State law is inconsistent or that a State law is substantially the same as the Act and regulation shall be in writing and addressed to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. The request shall be made pursuant to the procedures herein and the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR Part 262).

A request for a determination shall include the following items:

(1) The text of the State statute, regulation, or other document that is the subject of the request.

(2) Any other statute, regulation, or judicial or administrative opinion that implements, interprets, or applies the relevant provision.

(3) A comparison of the State law with the corresponding provision of the Federal law, including a full discussion of the basis for the requesting party's belief that the State provision is either inconsistent or substantially the same.

(4) Any other information that the requesting party believes may assist the Board in its determination.

Notice that the Board intends to make a determination (either on request or on its own motion) will be published in thewith an opportunity for public comment, unless the Board finds that notice and opportunity for comment would be impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest and publishes its reasons for such decision.

Subject to the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information (12 CFR Part 261), all requests made, including any documents and other material submitted in support of the requests, will be made available for public inspection and copying.

Notice of a final determination will be published in theand the Board will furnish a copy of such notice to the party who made the request and to the appropriate State official.

The Board reserves the right to reverse a determination for any reason bearing on the coverage or effect of State or Federal law.

Notice of reversal of a determination will be published in theand a copy furnished to the appropriate State official.
