
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Appendix D to Part 226 - Multiple Advance Construction Loans

Section 226.17(c)(6) permits creditors to treat multiple advance loans to finance construction of a dwelling that may be permanently financed by the same creditor either as a single transaction or as more than one transaction. If the actual schedule of advances is not known, the following methods may be used to estimate the interest portion of the finance charge and the annual percentage rate and to make disclosures. If the creditor chooses to disclose the construction phase separately, whether interest is payable periodically or at the end of construction, part I may be used. If the creditor chooses to disclose the construction and the permanent financing as one transaction, part II may be used.

A. If interest is payable only on the amount actually advanced for the time it is outstanding:

1. Estimated interest-Assume that one-half of the commitment amount is outstanding at the contract interest rate for the entire construction period.

2. Estimated annual percentage rate-Assume a single payment loan that matures at the end of the construction period. The finance charge is the sum of the estimated interest and any prepaid finance charge. The amount financed for computation purposes is determined by subtracting any prepaid finance charge from one-half of the commitment amount.

3. Repayment schedule-The number and amounts of any interest payments may be omitted in disclosing the payment schedule under ยง 226.18(g). The fact that interest payments are required and the timing of such payments shall be disclosed.

4. Amount financed-The amount financed for disclosure purposes is the entire commitment amount less any prepaid finance charge.

B. If interest is payable on the entire commitment amount without regard to the dates or amounts of actual disbursement:

1. Estimated interest-Assume that the entire commitment amount is outstanding at the contract interest rate for the entire construction period.

2. Estimated annual percentage rate-Assume a single payment loan that matures at the end of the construction period. The finance charge is the sum of the estimated interest and any prepaid finance charge. The amount financed for computation purposes is determined by subtracting any prepaid finance charge from one-half of the commitment amount.

3. Repayment schedule-Interest payments shall be disclosed in making the repayment schedule disclosure under ยง 226.18(g).
