
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Appendix I to Part 226 - Federal Enforcement Agencies

The following list indicates which federal agency enforces Regulation Z for particular classes of businesses. Any questions concerning compliance by a particular business should be directed to the appropriate enforcement agency. Terms that are not defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) shall have the meaning given to them in the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).

District office of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for the district in which the institution is located.

Federal Reserve Bank serving the district in which the institution is located.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Regional director for the region in which the institution is located.

Office of Thrift Supervision Regional Director for the region in which the institution is located.

Regional office of the National Credit Union Administration serving the area in which the Federal credit union is located.

Assistant General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590.

Nearest Packers and Stockyards Administration area supervisor.

Farm Credit Administration, 490 L'Enfant Plaza, SW., Washington, DC 20578.

Division of Credit Practices, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580.
