
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Appendix M1 to Part 226 - Repayment Disclosures
###### Calculating minimum payment repayment estimates.,Minimum payment formulas.

(b)(1)When calculating the minimum payment repayment estimate, card issuers must use the minimum payment formula(s) that apply to a cardholder's account. If more than one minimum payment formula applies to an account, the issuer must apply each minimum payment formula to the portion of the balance to which the formula applies. In this case, the issuer must disclose the longest repayment period calculated. For example, assume that an issuer uses one minimum payment formula to calculate the minimum payment amount for a general revolving feature, and another minimum payment formula to calculate the minimum payment amount for special purchases, such as a "club plan purchase." Also, assume that based on a consumer's balances in these features and the annual percentage rates that apply to such features, the repayment period calculated pursuant to this Appendix for the general revolving feature is 5 years, while the repayment period calculated for the special purchase feature is 3 years. This issuer must disclose 5 years as the repayment period for the entire balance to the consumer. If any promotional terms related to payments apply to a cardholder's account, such as a deferred billing plan where minimum payments are not required for 12 months, card issuers may assume no promotional terms apply to the account. For example, assume that a promotional minimum payment of $10 applies to an account for six months, and then after the promotional period expires, the minimum payment is calculated as 2 percent of the outstanding balance on the account or $20 whichever is greater. An issuer may assume during the promotional period that the $10 promotional minimum payment does not apply, and instead calculate the minimum payment disclosures based on the minimum payment formula of 2 percent of the outstanding balance or $20, whichever is greater. Alternatively, during the promotional period, an issuer in calculating the minimum payment repayment estimate may apply the promotional minimum payment until it expires and then apply the minimum payment formula that applies after the promotional minimum payment expires. In the above example, an issuer could calculate the minimum payment repayment estimate during the promotional period by applying the $10 promotional minimum payment for the first six months and then applying the 2 percent or $20 (whichever is greater) minimum payment formula after the promotional minimum payment expires. In calculating the minimum payment repayment estimate during a promotional period, an issuer may not assume that the promotional minimum payment will apply until the outstanding balance is paid off by making only minimum payments (assuming the repayment estimate is longer than the promotional period). In the above example, the issuer may not calculate the minimum payment repayment estimate during the promotional period by assuming that the $10 promotional minimum payment will apply beyond the six months until the outstanding balance is repaid.
