
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Coverage.

1.Only commercial messages that promote consumer credit transactions requiring disclosures are advertisements. Messages inviting, offering, or otherwise announcing generally to prospective customers the availability of credit transactions, whether in visual, oral, or print media, are covered by Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226).

i. Examples include:

A. Messages in a newspaper, magazine, leaflet, promotional flyer, or catalog.

B. Announcements on radio, television, or public address system.

C. Electronic advertisements, such as on the Internet.

D. Direct mail literature or other printed material on any exterior or interior sign.

E. Point of sale displays.

F. Telephone solicitations.

G. Price tags that contain credit information.

H. Letters sent to customers or potential customers as part of an organized solicitation of business.

I. Messages on checking account statements offering auto loans at a stated annual percentage rate.

J. Communications promoting a new open-end plan or closed-end transaction.

ii. The term does not include:

A. Direct personal contacts, such as follow-up letters, cost estimates for individual consumers, or oral or written communication relating to the negotiation of a specific transaction.

B. Informational material, for example, interest-rate and loan-term memos, distributed only to business entities.

C. Notices required by federal or state law, if the law mandates that specific information be displayed and only the information so mandated is included in the notice.

D. News articles the use of which is controlled by the news medium.

E. Market-research or educational materials that do not solicit business.

F. Communications about an existing credit account (for example, a promotion encouraging additional or different uses of an existing credit card account).
