
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Servicing.

C.Assume that a consumer applies for a new loan on August 1, 2009. The loan is consummated on September 1, 2009. The servicing rules in § 226.36(c) apply to the servicing of that loan as of October 1, 2009.

(ii) The interim final rule on appraisal independence in § 226.42 published on October 28, 2010 is mandatory on April 1, 2011, for open- and closed-end extensions of consumer credit secured by the consumer's principal dwelling. Section 226.36(b), which is substantially similar to § 226.42(b) and (e), is removed effective April 1, 2011. Applications for closed-end extensions of credit secured by the consumer's principal dwelling that are received by creditors before April 1, 2011, are subject to § 226.36(b) regardless of the date on which the transaction is consummated. However, parties subject to § 226.36(b) may, at their option, choose to comply with § 226.42 instead of § 226.36(b), for applications received before April 1, 2011. Thus, an application for a closed-end extension of credit secured by the consumer's principal dwelling that is received by a creditor on March 20, 2011, and consummated on May 1, 2011, is subject to § 226.36(b), however, the creditor may choose to comply with § 226.42 instead. For an application for open- or closed-end credit secured by the consumer's principal dwelling that is received on or after April 1, 2011, the creditor must comply with § 226.42.
