
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Clear and conspicuous-reasonably understandable form.

2.Except where otherwise provided, the reasonably understandable form standard does not require that disclosures be segregated from other material or located in any particular place on the disclosure statement, or that numerical amounts or percentages be in any particular type size. For disclosures that are given orally, the standard requires that they be given at a speed and volume sufficient for a consumer to hear and comprehend them. (See comment 5(b)(1)(ii)-1.) Except where otherwise provided, the standard does not prohibit:

i. Pluralizing required terminology ("finance charge" and "annual percentage rate").

ii. Adding to the required disclosures such items as contractual provisions, explanations of contract terms, state disclosures, and translations.

iii. Sending promotional material with the required disclosures.

iv. Using commonly accepted or readily understandable abbreviations (such as "mo." for "month" or "Tx." for "Texas") in making any required disclosures.

v. Using codes or symbols such as "APR" (for annual percentage rate), "FC" (for finance charge), or "Cr" (for credit balance), so long as a legend or description of the code or symbol is provided on the disclosure statement.
