
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter II - Federal Reserve System
### Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
#### PART 226-TRUTH IN LENDING (REGULATION Z)
##### Supplement I to Part 226-Official Staff Interpretations
###### Relation to tabular summary for applications and solicitations.

1.See commentary to ยง 226.5a(a), (b), and (c) regarding format and content requirements, except for the following:

i. Creditors must use the accuracy standard for annual percentage rates in ยง 226.6(b)(4)(ii)(G).

ii. Generally, creditors must disclose the specific rate for each feature that applies to the account. If the rates on an open-end (not home-secured) plan vary by state and the creditor is providing the account-opening table in person at the time the plan is established in connection with financing the purchase of goods or services the creditor may, at its option, disclose in the account-opening table (A) the rate applicable to the consumer's account, or (B) the range of rates, if the disclosure includes a statement that the rate varies by state and refers the consumer to the account agreement or other disclosure provided with the account-opening table where the rate applicable to the consumer's account is disclosed.

iii. Creditors must explain whether or not a grace period exists for all features on the account. The row heading "Paying Interest" must be used if any one feature on the account does not have a grace period.

iv. Creditors must name the balance computation method used for each feature of the account and state that an explanation of the balance computation method(s) is provided in the account-opening disclosures.

v. Creditors must state that consumers' billing rights are provided in the account-opening disclosures.

vi. If fees on an open-end (not home-secured) plan vary by state and the creditor is providing the account-opening table in person at the time the plan is established in connection with financing the purchase of goods or services the creditor may, at its option, disclose in the account-opening table (A) the specific fee applicable to the consumer's account, or (B) the range of fees, if the disclosure includes a statement that the amount of the fee varies by state and refers the consumer to the account agreement or other disclosure provided with the account-opening table where the fee applicable to the consumer's account is disclosed.

vii. Creditors that must disclose the amount of available credit must state the initial credit limit provided on the account.

viii. Creditors must disclose directly beneath the table the circumstances under which an introductory rate may be revoked and the rate that will apply after the introductory rate is revoked. Issuers of credit card accounts under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan are subject to limitations on the circumstances under which an introductory rate may be revoked. (See comment 5a(b)(1)-5 for guidance on how a card issuer may disclose the circumstances under which an introductory rate may be revoked.)

ix. The applicable forms providing safe harbors for account-opening tables are under appendix G-17 to part 226.
