
# Title 12 - Banks and Banking
## Chapter I - Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury
### PART 5 - RULES, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES FOR CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart B - Initial Activities
##### ยง 5.20 Organizing a national bank or Federal savings association.
###### Financial resources.

(3)(i) Each organizer must have a history of responsibility, personal honesty, and integrity. Personal wealth is not a prerequisite to become an organizer or director of a national bank or Federal savings association. However, directors' stock purchases, or, in the case of a Federal mutual savings association, capital contributions, individually and in the aggregate, should reflect a financial commitment to the success of the institution that is reasonable in relation to their individual and collective financial strength. A director should not have to depend on institution dividends, fees, or other compensation to satisfy financial obligations.

(ii) Because directors are often the primary source of additional capital for an institution not affiliated with a holding company, it is desirable that the proposed directors of the national bank or Federal savings association, as a group, be able to supply or have a realistic plan to enable the institution to obtain capital when needed.

(iii) Any financial or other business arrangement, direct or indirect, between the organizing group or other insiders and the proposed national bank or Federal savings association must be on nonpreferential terms.
